1/17

 File No.: PS/00217/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 02/06/2020, filed a claim
before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The claim is directed against B.B.B.
(hereinafter the claimed) with NIF ***NIF.1. The grounds on which the claim is based
are that she is employed at the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1, Zaragoza, and “the XXXX
made some claims echoed by XXXXXXXXX. Mr. B.B.B. placed in
the board of the town bar some documents presented by me a few years ago, I
I imagine that with the intention of defending himself against XXXX's claims, but he has
exposed my documents, without my consent, without deleting my personal data and other
private data, in a bar where anyone can access and use them.”

It provided a photograph of an open bulletin board, indicating that it is a space
public, in which various sheets were exposed. The photo shows the image from
far.

Provide two close-up photographs, on two sheets, with the annotation handwritten in red pen, doc
1 and doc 2. The first is a document with a stamp entered in the Town Hall of
***LOCATION.1 03/13/2017, and it is a category reclassification claim
professional of the claimant, containing her request and detailing her employment situation
Also see your address.

Document 2, is another registered professional category change claim document
in the same City Hall on 09/26/2018, containing the personal data and address of
the claimant, NIF number, and details of his professional history, indicating that the above
request of 03/13/2017, was not answered

On 03/06/2020, the Director of the AEPD agreed to reject the claim,
E/02294/2020, appearing notified to the claimant on 03/11/2020.

SECOND: The claimant filed an appeal for reconsideration on 05/27/2020, file
RR/0202/2020 making the following statements together with documents provided:

1- Your data was published in the Cafeteria bar ***BAR.1 of ***LOCALIDAD.1, as a
personal action dXXXXXXXX, not agreed upon or taken by the majority of the Corporation.
“The Councilors of the City Council were not aware of the action carried out by
XXXXXXXX.”. The Town Hall has its own notice boards, which is not the
from the bar

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

2- Photographs are provided. A first one that the claimant says, is from 02/03/2020, with the view
general bulletin board without closing, or glass. Both documents appreciated.
indicated doc 1 and doc 2 in the upper right part, and another sheet to its left, a written
called "explanatory note" signed by XXXXXXXX: which begins: "The XXXX Union does not
tells the truth…” “The City Council approved in plenary on 12/30/2019 the modification of the
current template for the reclassification of the job administrative assistant position…” Refers
the reclassification of the position due to the request of the current assistant advo, “which appears in the
doc 1 and doc 2” exposed to the side, and the need to cover the positions by officials.

In addition, there are four other photos with dates referenced by newspapers included in the photo.
They are photos with shots closer to the documents, dated 12, 18, 25 and 02/27/2020.

On the board, there are also statements from the City Council related to irrigation,
private advertisements for the sale of land, courses, books, etc.

At the bottom of doc 1 and 2, a report from the Zaragoza Provincial Council on conversion
administrative assistant position without containing personal data but being able to do
identifiable to its occupant, which is referred to as a part-time employment contract of
determined duration for a determined work or service, signed on 11/1/XXXX “by the
person who is occupying the square.

3- Provides a video in which it is seen that he enters what could be a bar-cafeteria and in the
left side, as soon as you enter, there is a bulletin board without glass and the two
exposed documents 1 and 2 in the area on the right and on the left the "explanatory note".
Images match the board seen in the photo you submitted on your claim
showing an open bulletin board with exposed sheets.

4-A photograph of a later date is provided, as stated, of a plank with a wardrobe
glazed with a key, unlike the previous photographs, and where the
documents 1 and 2 referred. If the written "explanatory note" is maintained, what could I do?
identifiable to the claimant.

5- Provide a copy of the reply from the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1 (Zaragoza), of
02/26/2020, to the request to withdraw your data exposed in the bar of ***ADDRESS.1
of ***LOCATION.1 (Zaragoza). It states “direct instructions have been given to the
responsible for the center so that no information can be posted on the bulletin board.
information that is not authorized by XXXXXXXX or the Secretary of the City Council”.
Likewise, it is reported that in "near dates a closure will be put
glass that prevents the placement of unauthorized information on the bulletin board.”

  The appeal for reconsideration, dated 06/04/2020, indicated in the legal basis
second:

”In the present case, along with the motion for reconsideration, new documentation has been provided
relevant to the purposes of the above. Consequently, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:
UPGRADE the motion for reconsideration filed against the Resolution of this Agency”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

THIRD: In previous actions E/08534/2020, dated 03/02/2021, the Inspector of
Data sends a letter to the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 requesting information on the
claim filed by the claimant, and specifically respond to the following
questions:

 "1. Identification and contact data, including ID number and postal address of the person who had
access to the documents referred to with data of the claimant prior to being
hanging on the bar board.

2. Actions that have been carried out to determine the authorship of the facts.

3. Report on the causes that gave rise to the incident that gave rise to the claim.

4. Report on the measures adopted to prevent similar incidents from occurring,
dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify its effectiveness.

 5. Any other that you consider relevant.”

A-Dated 03/31/2021, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1, sends this Agency
the following information and statements:

“1. That on December 30, 2019 in the plenary session of the City Council, it was subject to
debate and adoption of agreements in relation to the official and labor staff of
this municipality. That the agreement was adopted to amortize the position of administrative assistant
employment, replacing it with a newly created civil servant of the subscale of
General Administration, with the category of administrative part-time. With this
agreement, the corresponding process of reconfiguring the template began
as a result of the demands of the only person who works in the
City Council as administrative assistant (the claimant). after the celebration
mentioned plenary session, appeared placed in the space dedicated to the functions of
bulletin board of the Civic Center of the locality a news of the XXXXXXXXX of Aragon
dated January 23, 2020 under the headline “XXXX accuses XXXXXXX of “pressuring”
an employee of the City Council” in which what happened in the session was misrepresented
plenary.

In a municipality of 384 neighbors, no one could be unaware that such journalistic information was
It referred to the only administrative worker of the City Council, that is, the claimant. In
In this context, a note explaining the reality of what happened was placed next to the news
in the plenary session and the different reports and documents existing in the
file that had been dealt with in the aforementioned plenary and public session.

The members of the Corporation (including D. B.B.B.) due to their status as
Councillors, you had at your disposal the files submitted to the plenary session.

From the moment the issue was dealt with in plenary, the file was considered
public.

On 02/06/2020, the claimant raised the withdrawal of what could be
personal information. That on 02/26/2020, the claimant was informed that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

The person in charge of the Civic Center had been informed that he would not allow the placement of
information on the board that was not authorized by XXXXXXXX or the Secretary of the
City Hall, and all that did not comply with such indications must be withdrawn. That
In addition, a glass closure was placed that prevents access to the plank.”

-A copy of the answer given to the claimant dated 02/26/2020 is provided.

-A copy of the instructions given to the Civic Center of *** LOCATION.1 dated
02/26/2020.

-A copy of the “REPORT RELATIVE TO THE PUBLICATION OF DATA ON THE BOARD
OF ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE TOWN OF ***LOCALIDAD.1 (ZARAGOZA)” signed by the
Data Protection Delegate and dated 08/19/2020, concluding “That the treatment
of data outlined cannot fully adhere to regional or national regulations of
transparency, since even though it would be possible to make public the information related to the
procedure must respect the limits of data protection regulations. “

B-Dated 04/03/2021, the claimant sends to this Agency, a copy of the order of the Court of
First Instance and Instruction of ***LOCALIDAD.2 dated 03/29/2021 regarding the
abbreviated procedure *** PROCEDURE.1/2020 where the Prosecutor "has presented
writing requesting the dismissal of the proceedings”, although the judge agrees to open
oral trial against B.B.B. by XXXXXXXX
  of ***ARTICLE.1 of the Criminal Code
(investigated the claimed).

C-Dated 04/05/2021, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 sends this Agency
the following information and statements:

Provides a copy of the document dated 03/17/2021 sent by the Zaragoza Provincial Prosecutor's Office to
Court of First Instance and Instruction of ***LOCALIDAD.2, in the proceeding
abbreviated number ***PROCEDURE.1/20 where it is stated:
“[…]
THE PROSECUTION MINISTRY, ... is interested, under the protection of article 641.1, in issuing an order
agreeing the PROVISIONAL DISMISSAL of the proceedings, for not being
duly justified the perpetration of the crimes that have given rise to the formation of
this cause in attention to the following considerations:

FIRST.- The claimant is indicated as the initiator of the actions by complaint,
indicating that B.B.B. on 02/03/2020, XXXXXXXX of ***LOCALIDAD.1, “had placed in the
bulletin board of the ***BAR.1” of said locality some documents that she had
presented on labor matters, providing a photograph of the documents and the notice board
announcements in which they were placed, also stating that he had filed a complaint in
the AEPD.
[…]
For his part, the investigated B.B.B., in his statement in court, stated that when
events occurred suffered a campaign of harassment and were placed in the three bars of the
locality false news related to it and before that campaign against him, proceeded to place
the documents of the administrative file, which was public, of the Plenary of 12-30-2019 of
approval of budgets, which consisted of requests for professional promotion, of the
report of the DPZ (fourth space), the minutes of the plenary session of that date, and an explanatory note of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

that what XXXXXXXXX said about him was not true. He acknowledged having placed the
documents relating to the complainant in the administrative file, which was public and
I thought there were no problems in posting it publicly. that after requesting the
complainant to withdraw, contacted the DPZ where they have delegated the
data protection and the file was removed from the bulletin board. He claims that maybe
should have crossed out the name and surnames, but there was a brutal campaign
against him. He maintains that the problems with Ms. …come because she applied for the promotion
professional from administrative assistant to administrative assistant, and everything is an act of revenge for the
career advancement theme. He denies having threatened or pressured her, […]
SECOND.-
[…]
On the contrary, it has been fully accredited, since it has been recognized as such
the investigated Mr. B.B.B. himself, who, acting irregularly, placed on the bulletin board
announcements of the Civic Center ***CENTRO.1 of the town of ***LOCALIDAD.1 various
documents that contained personal data of Mrs. AAA. However, from the
joint analysis of the proceedings carried out has not been accredited the element
subjective that the criminal type of revealing secrets requires, that is, it has not been
accredited that the purpose of the investigated was to access said data or make them known
with the purpose of violating the privacy of its legitimate owner; and on the other hand, neither
A complaint or accusation has been made for this crime. All this, without prejudice to the penalty
that in your case may be imposed by the Data Protection Agency after the appropriate and
legitimate complaint filed by Ms. AAA.
[…]”

The document indicates that at the same time there are some preliminary procedures
***PROCEDURE.2/19 followed in the Court of ***LOCATION.2 against the same
person for a crime of XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXX.

D-According to the diligence carried out by the Inspector on 03/02/2021, in which he reflects that
access some of the pages of the website www.ayto-***LOCALIDAD.1.com obtained from
through the Internet, in the case of the contracting party's profile page, which includes the
conditions published on 05/10/2016 for the operation of the bar-cafeteria in the ***BAR.1”
and municipal swimming pool of ***LOCALIDAD.1, which belongs to the City Council of said
location.

FOURTH: On 05/20/2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against B.B.B., in accordance with the provisions of the
articles 63 and 64 of the Law ***PROCEDURE.2/2015, of 1/10, of the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), by the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to article 5 of the
LOPDGDD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD and in article 72.1.a) of the
LOPDGDD.

"For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of the law ***PROCEDURE.2/2015, of 1/10, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, (hereinafter,
LPACAP) the sanction that could correspond would be a warning, without prejudice to what
that results from the instruction.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

Once notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written statement of allegations
06/7/2021 in which it states:

1) Request that the processing of the procedure be suspended, because there is a procedure
criminal proceedings in progress requested by the claimant, in order not to punish twice the
same fact while the criminal matter is resolved, since it considers that the facts
are directly related to this procedure. This is the crime of XXXXXXXX, in
preliminary proceedings ***PROCEDURE.1/2020. Provide a copy of the document dated 03/11/2021, of
the claimant's lawyer, addressing the Court of First Instance and Instruction
sole of ***LOCATION.2, in relation to previous proceedings ***PROCEDURE.1/2020
in which he requests the opening of the oral trial for a crime of XXXXXXXX against the defendant.
Mention the abbreviated procedure ***PROCEDIMIENTO.2/2019 in which they were
involved claimant and claimed by an alleged signature of a document that the
claimant has always denied having signed. Also mentioned among other extremes
display of data on the bulletin board. The respondent states that in this
procedure, the public prosecutor has not formulated accusation.

2) States that the claimant joined in year XXXX for a "determined time", and
since then it has been in "XXXXXXXXXX situation", detailing the extension of functions
assumed over time. The claimant demanded financial recognition and
of improvement. Provide a copy of document 1 of 03/13/2017, in which you request your right to
professional promotion in application of the agreement of offices and offices of the province of
Zaragoza, article 20, which provides for the transition to a higher category upon reaching five years of
seniority in case of vacancy or six years if there is none. Attach a copy of the letter
document 2, with record 09/26/2018 in which the claimant reiterates her request. Understands
the claimed that the claimant was the one that caused the reclassification.

It was requested by the City Council, and it provides a copy of document 3, report of the Diputación de
Zaragoza, of 10/28/2018, which responds to the following: “XXXXXXXX President of the City Council
in consultation requests the issuance of a report on the position of administrative assistant of said
City Hall and more specifically on the steps to follow to convert that square of
administrative assistant and the qualifications required to exercise the functions of said
square". It is alluded to that the positions in the local administration must be carried out with
general character by official personnel, and only exceptionally when one of the
the legal assumptions by labor personnel. Indicate the steps to convert that square of
administrative assistant depending on the needs of the City Council.

The City Council, by mayoral decree 9/2018, dated 11/28/2018, responded to the
petition of the claimant filed on 09/26/2018, for a change of category, sending
as content, part of the Zaragoza Provincial Council report. Contribute in
correlation, copy of the claimant's document, entry to City Hall 01/25/2019 making
clarifications on the reception of Mayoral Decree 9/2018, and adds that the
The claimant did not appeal decree 9/2018.

Following the iter related to the matter, provides a copy of document 6, draft minutes
session of the ordinary plenary session of the City Council dated 12/30/2019. At the point of order
second day refers to the approval of the budgets of the staff for
2020, and to the modification of the workforce and civil servants, amortizing that of auxiliary
admvo. labor with an administrative official. No data mentioned

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

of the claimant. These modifications were reflected in its publication in the BOP of
Zaragoza on 01/15/2020, of "initial approval of the 2020 budget" in plenary
from 12/30/2019.

 
3) Reiterates that the data was used in response to the declarations of the XXXX union, defamatory
of XXXXXXXX and that "appeared exposed on boards of the civic center of ***LOCALIDAD.1
copy of an article published in the XXXXXXXXX of Aragon on 01/23/2020. Is for this that I know
placed in the civic center of this municipality in the place that has been used as a board
to make sure that all the people saw it and did so when in plenary session
City Hall had discussed the administrative reorganization of the staff
municipal administration placing documents that had been the subject of public debate
in the plenary session of the City Council, coping with the disinformation caused by the
plaintiff's union. No secret was revealed with the information in the file
public administrative debated publicly in plenary and regarding which they were
misinforming by the interested party or her union for her exclusive benefit. “

It accompanies the news that appeared in the XXXXXXXXX of Aragón of XXXXXX with the headline "the
XXXX accuses XXXXXXXX of (...)”.“ (…)”. The news alludes to the fact that the worker “(…)”. The
news indicates that the "(...)".

The criminal matter of the XXXXXXXXX, as identified by the respondent, would be the PD
***PROCEDURE.2/2019, complaint dated 01/09/2019. Provides a copy of document 10 of the
responses given within said process, on 04/01/2019 by the claimant to questions
of the complainant, on acknowledgment of signature on a document, which states "(...)," and that
"(...)".

In addition, it ends by indicating that the claimant has filed a complaint against him that
filed on 02/20/2020, and then another by XXXXXXXX before the Court, no date determined.

4) The information in the file was not only available to the Councilors but
of citizenship itself. Being part of the file publicly debated in plenary
considers that no type of information has been violated that could be considered
confidential.

5) Finally, it provides a report dated 04/05/2021 on employment stabilization processes
temporary public for the case of labor workers who were hired many years ago
years - indefinite not fixed - which concludes by pointing out that the laws currently in force
“allow during this exercise of 2021 to include the positions of a structural nature that,
being endowed budgetarily have been occupied temporarily and
uninterruptedly for several years.

FIFTH: On 01/10/2022, a resolution proposal is issued for the literal:

"That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, B.B.B. is sanctioned,
with NIF ***NIF.1 for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
a) of the RGPD, and for prescription purposes in article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, with a
warning sanction.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

It is delivered on 01/21/2022, presenting allegations on 02/09/2022 in which:

-Reiterates the request for suspension of the procedure based on the same arguments already
previously presented, considering it a strategy of the complainant "whose purpose is not the
safeguard your data but use your resolutions for purposes of a different nature,
interfering in the course of the criminal case”.

-Reiterates that it was a public administrative file in a municipality of barely
300 inhabitants, in which the claimant held the only administrative position.

-He reiterates that the newspaper article was defaming him, which was the reason why
exposed the documents and therefore their defense corresponds to said person,
including said defamation that of the City Council itself, being XXXXXXXX the one that
holds its representation and who corresponds to its defense in court and
administrative. Considers erroneous based on this, the statement that makes the proposal, to the
indicate that the respondent “does not act in the exercise of any type of function or competence
attributed”.

- Contrary to what is contained in the proposal, if it is relevant that the matter was debated
in plenary, given that it was not a question of modifying templates and amortization of posts without
allusion to the claimant, but understanding that the municipality has about 300 inhabitants, and
the claimant is the only administrative assistant. For this reason, “it is considered an assessment
wrong when it is pointed out: it is not relevant that the matter was debated in plenary,
comma since it was about changes to the template and amortization of posts, without reference
to the claimant”. The matter when dealt with in plenary was public information. The fact that
claimant's name appeared on the two documents, no information added to
the neighbors

-Requests subsidiarily to the suspension, the file of the procedure.

SIXTH Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1) About the person claimed, in the XXXXXXXXX of Aragón of XXXXXX, the news appeared: “the
XXXX accuses XXXXXXXX of (…)”. The claimed “(…)”.

2) According to the defendant, in addition, on the bulletin board of the bar, civic center, of the
locality, a copy of the news of the XXXXXXXXX of Aragón was exposed circumstance that
does not prove, and reason why he decided to expose some documents. In the photos and video
provided by the claimant in her complaint of 02/03/2020, and in her appeal for reconsideration
(RR) of 05/27/2020 the news exposure does not appear on the board. In the claim,
refers to the fact that the respondent whom he identifies with his name and surnames and his position, when he feels
referred to "placed" some documents containing personal data of the claimant
referring to applications submitted previously to the Consistory, on the petition
XXXXXXXXXXX professional of your position.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

3) They were displayed on the aforementioned open board, according to the photos and video provided by the
claimant, with the handwritten annotation in red pen, doc 1 and doc 2 and other annotations to
hand and underlining. The first, with entry stamp in the Town Hall of ***LOCATION.1
03/13/2017, is a claim of XXXXXXX of professional category of the claimant,
containing your request and detailing your employment situation, also seeing your address. The
second, it is another written claim in which the claimant reiterates the change of
professional category registered in the same City Council on 09/26/2018, containing the
personal data and address of the claimant, NIF number, and data of his history
professional, indicating that the previous request of 03/13/2017 was not answered.

Along with these two documents, it appears on the board, according to one of the photographs provided
by the claimant in the RR, the writing: "explanatory note" signed by XXXXXXXX: that
begins: "The XXXX Union does not tell the truth..." and refers to his explanation on the matter
of the approval in plenary session on 12/30/2019 of the current staff. Refers to the reclassification of
position due to the request of the current “which appears in doc 1 and doc 2”, and the need to
fill the positions by civil servants.

On the board, there are also statements from the City Council related to other
various town affairs.

At the bottom of doc 1 and 2, there is a report from the Zaragoza Provincial Council
on the conversion of an administrative assistant position in which it refers to occupation data
of the position, which being only one in the locality, can identify it.

4) It can be proven that the placement of the documents remains at least until
02/27/2020, since the claimant provides diaries that appear in the photo next to the date of the
themselves, including other references, all from February 2020, adding: "afterwards it was
closet” and the documents with your data are no longer displayed according to the photo you provide.

5) Before the presentation of the claim, the claimant requested the withdrawal of the
documents with your data from the board, on 02/06/2020, and provide a copy of the answer of 26
of the same, of the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1 (Zaragoza).

6) The claimant, in February 2020, filed a lawsuit against the defendant for
XXXXXXXX of article ***ARTICLE.1 of the Criminal Code, which is substantiated in the procedure
abbreviated ***PROCEDURE.1/2020.
Within said procedure, as stated in the letter from the Prosecutor's Office to the court,
03/17/2021, it is deduced that the statements of the claimant are transcribed at the headquarters
following judicial proceedings, which he understands to be fully accredited, according to the Prosecutor's Office:

-explained in the bar of the civic center, the requests for professional promotion, as well as the
rest of the documentation, because he considered that “the file was public”, and because
suffered a campaign of harassment against him, which does not meet the subjective element of the type of
disclosure of secrets (and on the other hand, no complaint or accusation has been made by
this crime. The Prosecutor's Office requests the provisional dismissal of proceedings for not being
justified the perpetration of “the crimes that have given rise to the formation of this case”,
although the judge opened an oral trial on 03/29/2021.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

7) Other criminal proceedings, those of the PA ***PROCEDURE.2/2019 have been followed by
a matter of XXXXX XXXXXXXXXX against the defendant, within which was resolved
among other questions if the signature of a document corresponded to the claimant, denying
this is the question.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each authority
of control and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of
5/12, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter,
LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures processed
by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Taking into account the Law ***PROCEDURE.2/2015, of 1/10 of the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations (LPACAP), its article 77.4 indicates: "
In sanctioning procedures, the facts declared proven by
firm criminal judicial resolutions will bind the Public Administrations with respect to
of the sanctioning procedures that they substantiate. On the other hand, in the same standard
indicated in article 22.1.g):” 1. The expiration of the maximum legal term to resolve a
procedure and notification of the resolution may be suspended in the following cases: g)
When for the resolution of the procedure it is essential to obtain a prior
pronouncement by a court, from the moment it is requested,
what will have to be communicated to the interested parties, until the Administration has
proof of it, which must also be communicated to them.”

Law 40/2015, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP) that in its article 31
indicates: "Concurrence of sanctions":

"1. The facts that have been penalized or administratively may not be sanctioned, in

the cases in which the identity of the subject, fact and basis are appreciated.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

As for the suspension of this proceeding because it is related to the one being aired at
instance of the claimant by XXXXXXXX against the claimed, it must be taken into account
that an oral trial was opened in April 2021 and without knowing if it has been resolved. The defendant contributes
copy of the request for provisional dismissal of the matter by the Prosecutor's Office, and there is
copy of the opening of oral proceedings with a later date provided by the claimant. It reflects
in the documentation of the Prosecutor's Office that the claimant mentions the exposure of the
documents on the board and that he has filed a complaint with the AEPD, adding other
facts by which she understands that the XXXXXXXX may come, such as the statements
that she has done in another judicial process, from 2019 on "XXXXXXX XXXXXXX" in which
it was decided, among other issues, if she had signed a document, which she denied
receiving then as indicated harassment of the claimant, and other matters and issues that
are also part of the alleged XXXXXXXX, that is, it is not the only document to
consider. Not by mentioning these circumstances can it be presumed that
there is identity of subject, fact and foundation that derives in the suspension of the
procedure by itself.

This alludes to the principle of legality in sanctioning matters enshrined in article 25
of the Constitution that since the ruling of the Constitutional Court 2/1981 is called
non bis in idem principle, which advocates the impossibility of imposing two sanctions
different administrative and criminal charges for the same facts. For there to be a violation of
non bis in idem principle it is necessary that the two sanctions fall on the same subject
and have the same object and the same foundation. , the duality of foundation is identified
not only with the normative duality. For the duality of sanctions to be
constitutionally admissible, it is also necessary that the regulations that impose it can
be justified because it contemplates the same facts from the perspective of a
legally protected that is not the same as the one that the first sanction tries to
safeguard or, if you will, from the perspective of a different legal relationship between
sanctioning and sanctioned.
The crime is classified "against the freedom of the people", according to the description of the type,
includes violence or compelling to do what is not wanted. The right to protection
data safeguards the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and, in
In particular, your right to the protection of personal data. referred to in the article
18.4 of the Spanish Constitution, corresponding to different protected legal assets.

In addition, the idea that the respondent has that the claim before the AEPD has been used
as a strategy against him, unknown if the claim is made first to this
AEPD and then the judicial demand for XXXXXXXX, cannot suppose the suspension of the
this procedure for what has already been mentioned and because to contribute or mention the exposition of
the data is only one element among those that may be considered by the Judge, in the legitimate
exercise of their right to effective judicial protection.
It is estimated, therefore, that the fact that is analyzed here about exposure of
data on the bar's bulletin board, with the qualification of behaviors of the claimed person as
XXXXXXXX, since they are totally different facts and fundamentals that have nothing to do
Therefore, it is not appropriate to suspend the procedure, so it must continue.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

III

Some peculiarities and characteristics of the right to data protection are mentioned
in ruling 292/2000 of 11/30 of the Constitutional Court, indicating:

“The fundamental right to which we are referring guarantees the person a
power of control and disposal over your personal data. For it confers upon its owner a beam
of faculties that are essential elements of the fundamental right to the protection of
personal data, integrated by the rights that correspond to the affected party to consent to the
collection and use of your personal data and to know them. and to make cash
that content, the right to be informed of who owns your personal data and with what
purpose, as well as the right to oppose that possession and use, demanding whoever
appropriate to put an end to the possession and use of such data.”

The RGPD defines in its article 4:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified or identifiable natural person
("the interested"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person whose identity
can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as
for example a name, an identification number, location data, an identifier
online or one or more elements of the physical, physiological, genetic,
psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or
destruction;

7) “controller” or “controller”: the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means
of the treatment; if the Law of ***CENTER.1 or of the Member States determines the
purposes and means of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the specific criteria for
their appointment may be established by the Law of ***CENTRO.1 or of the States
members;

Considering *** PROCEDURE.2 of the RGPD:

“Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees security and
appropriate confidentiality of personal data, including to prevent access or use
unauthorized access to said data and the equipment used in the treatment.”

Article 29 of the RGPD states: “Processing under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge.
course of treatment:

The person in charge of the treatment and any person acting under the authority of the
responsible or of the person in charge and has access to personal data may only treat said

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

data following the instructions of the person in charge, unless they are obliged to do so by virtue of
of the Law of ***CENTER.1 or of the Member States.”
The respondent, who is also XXXXXXX of the local Corporation, and as such has access to
his documents for the performance of his position and functions, exposes on a bulletin board
announcements, of a cafeteria bar, different from the official headquarters of the City Council, with functions of
civic center and swimming pool, data of the claimant.

Public entities act with full submission to the Law and the Law, in accordance with the
principle of legality, objectively serving the general interest. It is proven that
the claimed party was part as XXXXXXXXXX of the City Council, having access to the data
of the claimed. Likewise, what was debated in plenary session dealt with modifications of
templates and amortization of positions, without reference to the claimant, there is no file
itself as such, according to the claimant, but rather an accumulation of actions over time,
related to a request for reclassification in application of an agreement, and a
XXXXXXXX's decision to reconvert the position into another of a higher category of
civil servant, amortizing the one occupied by the claimant, along with some legal incidents.
As for job stabilization, it would also be the same position, so
the allegations of the respondent that they would allow him to expose data of the claimant did not
have a place in this case.

Regarding the publicity of the plenary session, it is not the same as the publication of its
agreements or access to the documentation of what had been approved in it, or to
their antecedents, corresponding to different areas.

From the point of view of data protection, the publication of the minutes of the plenary sessions
premises is a data treatment, which should comply with the requirements indicated in the
article 5.1.a) of the RGPD and be protected by a legitimate basis for the treatment.

The (LBRL) within its Title V "common provisions to local entities" dedicates the
Chapter IV to "citizen information and participation", being able to stand out within the
itself, article 70.2 when it provides:

“a) The agreements adopted by the local corporations are published or notified in the form
provided for by law.”

The regulation referred to by the LBRL can be found in its development rule, the Real
Decree 2568/1986, of 11/28, approving the Organization Regulations, Func-
tioning and Legal Regime of Local Entities (ROF).

"Article 229.2

The calls and agendas of the plenary sessions will be transmitted to the media
of social communication of the locality and will be made public on the bulletin board of the
entity.

2. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 70.2 of Law 7/1985, of 2/04l, the Corporation
will give summarized publicity of the content of the plenary sessions and of all the agreements
of the Plenary and of the Government Commission, as well as the resolutions of XXXXXXXX and the
that the Delegates dictate by their delegation.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

Therefore, there is sufficient legal authorization in the local regulations for the publication of the
minutes of the sessions. However, another of the basic principles of the fundamental right
is the data quality referred to in article 5.2.b) and c) of the RGPD, by precepting:

"1. The personal data will be:

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed further
in a manner incompatible with said purposes; according to article 89, paragraph 1, the treat-
Further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest, information purposes,
scientific and historical research or statistical purposes shall not be considered incompatible with the
initial purposes (“purpose limitation”);

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
are processed (“data minimization”);”

The application of this principle to the processing of information would make it possible to reconcile
our case the right to data protection with the right to participate in life
local. However, in this case, the plenary session did not approve any specific agreement in the
that the claimant was mentioned by name, nor is it related to the power
ity of posting two requests from the claimant on a bulletin board, which is not the official
tial of the city council.

It should be noted that the change of template in plenary, for the purposes of approving the
budgets, did not need to mention the occupant of the position, much less the history of
their submitted applications, hence stating that access to the data of the
claimant, without specifying what data, exists because the matter was debated in plenary is not
true, because what is being examined is data and information associated with that data
embodied in the requests that he once presented to the town hall for a question
personal in relation to his employer, the City Council. In any case, this does not authorize the
access to documents in the form of an exhibition on the bulletin board.

The intended informative purpose cannot be at the expense of literally exposing
the professional pretensions of the claimant reflected in two registered writings
in his day in the City Hall, one almost four years before, another the previous year, and used to
private title by the claimant in what he considered an attack against him. the claimant,
with a XXXXX XXXXXX from XXXX, which does not request the creation of a position of
official, but what she understands applicable to her case, a reclassification, derived with the
management carried out, of the declaration of amortization of his post and the creation of a
senior civil servant position.

The facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the defendant, B.B.B., for
Violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGD that indicates:

The personal data will be:

“processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

In relation to article 5 of the LOPDGDD:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all persons
that intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of confidentiality to the
referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to the

duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even when
the relationship of the obligor with the person responsible or in charge of the treatment had ended.

When a citizen presents writings before an administration, in the exercise of their
rights, about their professional situation, there is a legal link so that the process and
resolution of the matter is channeled by what is predetermined in the management regulations
applicable. The LPCAP, a basic rule in all administrative procedures, contemplates
for people who are related to the Public Administrations as one of their
rights: (art 13.h): "To the protection of personal data, and in particular to the
security and confidentiality of the data contained in the files, systems and
Public Administration applications. Article 16.3 of the ROF establishes that "The
Members of corporations have the duty to keep confidentiality in relation to the
information that is provided to them to make possible the development of their function. So,
The use or misuse that could have been made of said information and documentation is
liability of the claimant.
By file we must understand the physical support in which the information is stored and processed,
in this case, the entry register of the City Council in which the data of the
documents that the claimant presented at the time and that were displayed on the bulletin board
object of the complaint, copies were presumably made, taking notes by hand
explanatory.

On these documents, the defendant makes a use exposing them on the board, according to
indicates, to respond to statements made by an XXXXX, but such a circumstance
does not endorse the provision of data and documents for expository purposes of the aforementioned
documents.

The claimant's data was in open access to the general public on the board
of announcements, approximately one month, February 2020, after the news appeared on XXXXX.
Not only can the 300 residents of the town access this public space, it is understood
that can be accessed by anyone, not just from the locality. On the other hand, contrary to
exposed by the claimed, it is not about knowing the name, that being a small
locality can be known, it is about some writings that contain the story of its development
employment in the City Council.

According to the defendant, he intended to inform the population of the XXXXX demonstrations, if
well, it does not prove that the exposure of data and consequent disclosure of documents of
past years of the claimant are necessary, nor proportionate to that purpose. Must
remember that it was a matter of internal administrative management, entrusted to a
local entity, which for the defense in a declaration of a union, the claimant goes
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

to the exposition of the data and documents of the claimant whose custody corresponds to the
City Council, informing third parties, in a broad sense, not only the residents of the
locality, in general anyone who passes through the place where they were placed, not only
your basic data but your DNI, address, professional career and administrative request, without
any relation to the transparency of the action. As a result, it is possible to
know the data violating the confidentiality that with respect to management had
submitted by the claimant, proving the infringement

IV

Article 83.5 of the RGPD indicates:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent
tion under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have infringed the provisions of this Regulation”

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

It can be seen that on the same day that the claim was filed with this AEPD, he had completed the
claimant request for deletion of data and had received a response, not having news
that they remained beyond the last date that the claimant accredited. The data is-
They had scarcely a month, deciding on the corrective power of the warning to the
natural person against whom the claim is made, and it is proven that without any agreement and by its own
decision before the announcement of the XXXXXXXXX decided to expose the data, and recognized the facts
guys.

v

Determines article 72 of the LOPDGDD on its typification

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established

in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, a warning for an infraction of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, and 72.1 a) of the
LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law ***PROCEDURE.2/2015, of
1/10. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-190122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

