
14.3.2022.
During the session of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB), Zdravko Vukić, director of AZOP and member of EDPB, invited members to the Spring Conference of European supervisory bodies for data protection, organized by AZOP in Cavtat in May this year. https://springconference2022.hr/
The conference in question is the most important forum for cooperation and coordination of strategies and policies of European regulatory authorities for the protection of personal data and privacy, and currently this platform consists of 62 national and regional authorities and 6 observers.
Continuous cooperation between European data protection authorities is extremely important in the digital age when no country can independently deal with potential threats in the segment of data protection and citizens' privacy. International cooperation facilitates the resolution of common challenges, enables a more effective exchange of experiences and examples of good practice, and at the same time encourages strategic action to achieve individual and common goals.
Furthermore, during the plenary session, the EDPB adopted the Guidelines on Art. 60 of the GDPR. The development of such guidelines is part of the EDPB's strategy and work program for the period 2021-2022 to support effective implementation and effective cooperation between national supervisory authorities. The guidelines aim to further increase the consistent application of legal provisions related to the "one-stop-shop" mechanism. The guidelines help the competent authorities to interpret and apply their own national procedures in a way that they fit into cooperation under the one-stop-shop mechanism.
The EDPB has adopted Guidelines on "dark patterns" on the interfaces of social media platforms. The guidelines contain practical recommendations for designers and users of social media platforms on how to assess and avoid so-called "dark patterns" in social media interfaces that violate GDPR requirements. By "dark patterns" we mean unfair practices implemented on social media platforms that cause users to make unintended, "forced", potentially harmful decisions regarding the processing of their personal data. Also, the guidance contains concrete examples of "dark pattern" types, best practice examples for different use cases, and contains specific recommendations for user interface designers to facilitate effective GDPR implementation.
The EDPB has adopted a toolkit on basic data protection safeguards to implement cooperation between the EEA and third country supervisory authorities. The tool covers key topics, such as enforceability of data subjects' rights, compliance with data protection principles and judicial redress.
At the session, the EDPB also adopted the joint opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS on the proposals for extending the Regulation on the EU digital COVID certificate for a period of 12 months.

