  

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

Berlin, October 10, 2022

 

 

Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information moves into new ones

premises

 
It's off to new shores for the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

(BlnBDI). The authority has moved and is now located on the banks of the Spree in Berlin-Moabit. Data

Processing bodies are asked to adjust the address in their data protection declarations.

 

Volker Brozio, Acting Head of the BlnBDI: “The new premises offer

finally enough space for all employees at one location. My thanks go in particular to

Members of the House of Representatives who made the move possible with their support. It

I am pleased that we will also be holding public events at our new location in the future

can become. I ask all data-processing offices to enter the new house address in their

Specify data protection declarations if BlnBDI is mentioned there as a contact."

 

The new address is:

Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

Alt-Moabit 59-61

10555 Berlin

 

The telephone and fax numbers as well as the e-mail addresses remain unchanged.

 

The move was made necessary by the growth in jobs at BlnBDI in recent years. Through

the General Data Protection Regulation, the tasks of the BlnBDI had expanded considerably. In addition

the number of complaints from citizens and requests for advice from authorities and

company strong. The Berlin House of Representatives responded and approved more

personnel positions. With the move, all BlnBDI employees are now united in one location.
 
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI)

 
 
Telephone: 0151 188 52 333
Fax: 030 215 50 50

 
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
Website: www.datenschutz-berlin.de

 

 

 

Alt-Moabit 59-61, 10555 Berlin
Entrance: Alt-Moabit 60
 
 
 

Responsible: Simon Rebiger
Office: Cristina Vecchi

 


 

On October 6, 2022, Meike Kamp became the new Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and

chosen freedom of information. The lawyer succeeds Maja Smoltczyk, whose term of office

ended at the end of October 2021. Until they are appointed and take office, the authority will

continue to be managed provisionally by Volker Brozio.

Page 2 of 2

 

