

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in the Civil Service Information System (Ministry of the Interior)



On the basis of its inspection plan, the Office carried out an inspection pursuant to Act No. 101/2000 Coll., the subject of which was compliance with the obligations of the Ministry of the Interior in the operation of the civil service information system.



The civil service information system was established by Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on civil service. Pursuant to Section 180, Paragraph 2 of the said Act, the administrator of this system is the Ministry of the Interior.



The inspection proved that the Ministry of the Interior processes copies of personal documents of applicants (foreign nationals), although these personal documents, or the personal data contained in them, are not necessary to fulfill the purpose of processing. The Office also checked the technical and organizational measures taken for the security of personal data. In this context, he discovered that the inspected person has an application installed as part of the operation of the information system, through which records of accesses to the system (logging) are stored. However, the means used for logging do not allow obtaining information about who accessed the data of a specific data subject and for what purpose.



By the above-mentioned conduct, the controlled person violated the obligations set out in § 5 paragraph 1 letter f) (processing in accordance with the purpose), § 13 paragraph 4 letter c) (logging of operations and access records) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.



The Chairperson of the Office rejected the objections submitted by the inspected person against the inspection findings.



Considering that the inspected person immediately corrected the defective condition, the Office did not impose corrective measures and waived the imposition of a fine.


The inspection was conducted by the inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Bozena Čajková.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of the processing of personal data in the Information System of the Civil Service (Ministry of the Interior )Show current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



