
At the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament, held on October 18, 2019, the Annual Report on the Work of the Personal Data Protection Agency for 2018 was adopted by a majority vote.
This is one, so far the most comprehensive, Annual Report of the Personal Data Protection Agency (AZOP), since in mid-2018 the General Regulation on Data Protection, better known to the public as the GDPR, came into full and direct implementation. At the same time, the Law on the Implementation of the General Regulation on Data Protection and the Law on the Protection of Natural Persons in Relation to the Processing and Exchange of Personal Data for the Prevention, Investigation, Detection or Prosecution of Criminal Offenses or Execution of Criminal Sanctions were passed in Croatia. These regulations have significantly strengthened the powers, expanded the scope of competence, increased the scope of supervisory, advisory and corrective activities and expanded overall responsibilities and obligations that require effective performance of tasks and duties, especially complex in today's digital age and advanced development of information technology is the use of personal data, in the information and cyberspace, predominantly present.
The direct application of the General Regulation on Data Protection of 25 May 2018 has brought the Agency a multiple increase in the scope of work and tasks. With the introduction of the new legislative framework, citizens' awareness of the importance of protecting their personal data has increased, which ultimately resulted in more inquiries and requests for protection of rights.
The Annual Report shows that in 2018 the Agency received 5242 cases to be resolved, which is 238% more cases than in 2017, it issued a significant number of opinions and decisions concerning the public sector, financial and banking sector, health, scientific and educational, telecommunications sector, as well as that of the Internet and social networks, marketing, video surveillance systems and the interpretation of the General Regulation on Data Protection.
Citizens' complaints and the submission of requests for establishing a violation of rights, according to the type of possible violation in 2018, mostly related to the following violations of rights:
1. processing of personal data using video surveillance (video surveillance of common areas in apartment buildings that are co-owned parts of the property and used by all co-owners),
2. processing of personal data by video surveillance cameras in the business premises of employers, control of entrances and exits and all-day recording / monitoring of working premises (for example school classrooms),
3. public publication of personal data on the Internet and social networks (Facebook and Instagram),
4. public availability of personal data by entering names and surnames in Google search engine,
5. publication of personal data on the bulletin board,
6. publication of personal data in the media,
7. collection and further processing of personal data in tender procedures by public authorities,
8. processing of personal data for the purpose of concluding subscriber contracts (identity theft),
9. processing of personal data in enforcement proceedings (change of identity),
10. providing personal data for use to third parties in excessive volume,
11. use of personal data by companies for the production and distribution of thermal energy for the purpose of collecting disputed invoices,
12. disabling access to personal data of employees processed by their employers.
A total of 1515 surveillance procedures were carried out.
A total of 66% more opinions were issued on laws and bylaws, which is an indication that state bodies are aware of the importance of regulating the issue of personal data protection in a quality and comprehensive manner in each specific legal area.
In the category of administrative proceedings, the number of registered cases related to received requests for violation of rights / complaints was 383 requests / complaints, which is an increase of 176% compared to 2017. The largest number of adopted requests referred to the processing of personal data for the purpose of concluding subscription contracts with teleoperators and data processing by video surveillance.
The director of the Agency for Personal Data Protection, Anto Rajkovača, confirms that we really justifiably perceive 2018 as a turning point in data protection in Croatia, Europe and internationally.
Namely, after almost 4 years of extensive negotiations, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union reached an agreement on new EU rules on data protection, completed in the General Data Protection Regulation, which entered into force on 24 May 2016, and its full implementation in to all Member States, became binding on 25 May 2018.
The purpose of full implementation of the Regulation is related to the development of the digital age, which involves the incredibly simple exchange of information and data, and the emergence of social networks, increasing availability and use of the Internet, mobile applications, smartphones, etc., significantly accelerated the flow of for privacy - sensitive data.
These changes have resulted in the adoption of a new regulation that ensures uniform and uniform treatment in all Member States in the part concerning the overall protection of personal data, which results in simpler and equal protection of the rights of all individuals, citizens and respondents in Europe. union.
The protection of personal data is not a novelty that has occurred in the application of the General Regulation. On the contrary, it existed before the full application of the General Regulation, and was implemented in accordance with the then existing legal framework. However, due to the strength of this regulation, we justifiably perceive 2018 as a turning point in data protection in Croatia, Europe and internationally.
As technology has transformed economic and social life, the development of technology is moving forward at a rapid pace, and bearing in mind that personal data protection is an institution of trust, extremely important for people / individuals, we can truly expect the scope of AZOP's work in the years to come. are ahead of us, always be higher than the previous year. It is necessary to know that the Agency is an institution that due to the nature of its work must keep pace with today's world development, it is necessary to continuously monitor trends in digital society, new information and communication technologies, information processes, cyber security and protection.
Also, the main focus and work of the Agency is - creating preconditions for effective and legally harmonized personal data protection and supervision over the processing of personal data of Croatian citizens, believing that this is the only correct approach that actively contributes to the realization of fundamental rights of the European Union. Croatia, the guaranteed right of every individual to the protection of their personal data.
Public Relations of the Personal Data Protection Agency
