Legal Advisory Office  
0050/2023  

The inquiry raises the issue of compliance with data protection regulations concerning personal data - Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (GDPR hereinafter), and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD hereinafter) - of the Agreement-Convening that the National Institute of Innovative Technologies and Teacher Training (INTEF hereinafter) is going to sign with the entity Google Cloud EMEA Limited (Google hereinafter) for the implementation in classrooms by the Educational Administration under the competence of the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training (the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla) of the use of the “Workspace for Education” technological solution.  

The inquirer raises several doubts regarding the adequacy of this Agreement-Convening to the current legal framework of data protection, specifically concerning the following:  
- Regarding the applicable legal regime to the agreement. There are several documents that would apply, such as the text of the Agreement itself, the Data Protection Addendum, and the Terms of Workspace. Rules of precedence are established in case of conflict, which may complicate the interpretation of the legal relationship, to which is added the possibility of unilaterally modifying contractual terms, that is, without the intervention of INTEF, which would be contrary to Article 1256 of the Civil Code. Furthermore, the application of non-European regulation is assumed, if it is inferred from the application of the Data Protection Addendum.  
- Regarding the object of the agreement-convening. Since it consists of the deployment of a package of tools designed to enable educators and students to innovate and learn together, the categories of interested parties would be very broad, as would the categories of personal data since it would encompass identifying data (name, surname, email, ID number, username, and password); educational center; academic data. Therefore, it would include data of minors and data necessary for adaptations in the classroom according to various disabilities; as well as data related to school menus that could indirectly reveal religious beliefs.  
As it is a package of tools and provides additional services, it is not possible to enumerate the specific purposes and the legitimizing bases of the same, nor the categories of personal data that could be included, according to the indicated special categories.  
- Regarding the necessity of using the “Workspace for Education Technological Solution.” There is no need for contracting because it does not provide any functionality that is not already offered by the SED - Digital Educational Service - which has the same purpose and none of the mentioned inconveniences. (sic)  
It does not pass the proportionality test (suitability, necessity, and proportionality in the strict sense). The use of technological platforms can guarantee the provision of services to centers globally; however, it is not necessary due to the existence of the SED, and regarding proportionality in the strict sense, the implementation of Google's technological solution may cause harm to the personal data of minors.  
- The use of different services of the technological solution. The “ordinary” services and the additional services or “additional products” are cited, and regarding the latter, it is not clear whether the clauses of the agreement would apply to them, despite their use implying the collection of personal data.  
- The deadlines for communicating security incidents, which may exceed 72 hours. There is no commitment in the data protection addendum to notify the client (i.e., Google as the processor to INTEF as the controller) within that timeframe.  
- The international data transfers contemplated in clause 10 indicate that they can be made to any country where Google or its subprocessors have facilities.  
- In European countries such as France and Denmark, the use of the technological solution offered by Google has been prohibited.
Legal Office
I
Having outlined the terms of the consultation, and considering that the application of the Agreement under analysis would involve the processing of personal data, the GDPR and the LOPDGDD will apply. 
The processing of personal data resulting from the implementation of Google Workspace in Educational Centers must adhere to the principles contained in Article 5 of the GDPR, which states that personal data shall be:
a) processed lawfully, fairly, and transparently in relation to the data subject (“lawfulness, fairness, and transparency”);
b) collected for specified, legitimate, and explicit purposes, and not further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes; in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes shall not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes (“purpose limitation”);
c) adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“data minimization”);
d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable measures shall be taken to ensure that inaccurate personal data are erased or rectified without delay with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);
e) kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; personal data may be stored for longer periods as long as they are processed solely for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this Regulation to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject (“storage limitation”);
f) processed in a manner that ensures an adequate level of security of personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction, or damage, through the application of appropriate technical or organizational measures (“integrity and confidentiality”).
And in its paragraph 2, the principle of proactive responsibility is established:
2. The data controller shall be responsible for compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1 and shall be able to demonstrate it.
II
The principle of lawfulness determines under what circumstances or conditions the processing of personal data must be considered lawful. Thus, the circumstances or legal bases that legitimize the processing of personal data are found in Article 6 of the GDPR, which states:
1. Processing shall be lawful only if at least one of the following conditions is met:
a) the data subject has given consent to the processing of their personal data for one or more specific purposes;
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject;
d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person;
e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller;
Legal Office
f) the processing is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that such interests do not prevail over the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject requiring the protection of personal data, particularly when the data subject is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions. 

In this case, it is necessary to identify what would be the grounds for legitimacy to carry out the implementation of those technological solutions that, involving the processing of personal data in a digital environment, contribute to exercising the educational function of the competent administration. To this end, it is necessary to refer to the legal framework that regulates education, taking into account that it is a fundamental right provided for in Article 27 of the Spanish Constitution (CE), and in particular, the regulation of the use of Information and Communication Technologies and digital platforms must be addressed.

Organic Law 2/2006, of May 3, on Education (LOE hereinafter) establishes in its Article 2.1 l) that:
The Spanish educational system will be oriented towards the achievement of the following objectives:
l) Training to ensure the full integration of students into the digital society and the learning of safe use of digital media that respects human dignity, constitutional values, fundamental rights, and, particularly, the respect and guarantee of individual and collective privacy.

Furthermore, regarding the use of Information and Communication Technologies, Article 111 bis LOE indicates the following:
1 (…)
Within the framework of the implementation of the aforementioned measures, within the information systems specific to academic and administrative management, an identifying number for each student will be regulated, in order to facilitate the exchange of relevant information, the monitoring of individualized educational trajectories, including the educational measures that may have been applied, and to meet the demands of state and international statistics and European strategies for education and training systems. In any case, such regulation will comply with the regulations related to privacy and the protection of personal data.

2. The virtual learning environments used in publicly funded educational centers will facilitate the application of specific educational plans designed by teachers to achieve specific curriculum objectives and must contribute to extending the concept of the classroom in time and space. Therefore, they must, while respecting interoperability standards, allow students to access the learning environments available in the educational centers they attend, from anywhere and at any time, with full respect for the provisions of applicable regulations regarding intellectual property, privacy, and the protection of personal data. They will also promote the principles of universal accessibility and design for all people, both in formats and content as well as in tools and virtual learning environments.

3. The Ministry of Education and Vocational Training will promote, after consulting the Autonomous Communities, the compatibility of the formats that may be supported by the tools and virtual learning environments in the field of public digital educational content, in order to facilitate their use regardless of the technological platform on which they are hosted.

4. The Ministry of Education, Culture, and Sports will provide digital and technological platforms accessible to the entire educational community, which may incorporate teaching resources provided by educational administrations and other agents for shared use. The resources must be selected according to parameters of methodological quality, adoption of open standards, and availability of sources that facilitate their dissemination, adaptation, reuse, and redistribution, and will be recognized as such.

5. Educational administrations and the management teams of the centers will promote the use of information and communication technologies (ICT) in the classroom as an appropriate teaching medium.
Legal Office
valuable for carrying out teaching and learning tasks. Educational administrations must establish the conditions that make it possible to eliminate situations of risk arising from the inadequate use of ICT in the school environment, with special attention to situations of online violence. Trust and security in the use of technologies will be promoted, paying special attention to the elimination of gender stereotypes that hinder the acquisition of digital skills under equal conditions.
(…)
In any case, the information and communication technologies (ICT) and the teaching resources used must comply with the regulations governing services and the information society and intellectual property rights, raising awareness of the respect for the rights of third parties.
Considering the provisions just mentioned, it can be stated that, in general, the legal basis for processing the personal data of members of the educational community affected by the implementation of technological solutions and digital platforms would be found in Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR, according to which processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the data controller. In this case, the terms appearing in the article of the LOE such as "will facilitate," "must," "will promote," imply a clear obligation to act (Report 74/2019).
Such processing could also be understood as based on Article 6.1 e) of the GDPR, according to which processing is lawful when necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller, since education is of undeniable public interest, rests on a fundamental right under Article 27 of the CE, and is the responsibility of the competent public authorities to guarantee and promote.

III
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
7

                                                           Legal Office
However, the existence of a legal basis for legitimizing the processing of personal data of the educational community by educational centers in, or through, digital environments and platforms does not mean that it can be carried out in any manner; rather, we find in various regulatory bodies elements or requirements that act as counterweights and guarantees against the possible interference that such data processing entails in the right to data protection and the privacy of individuals.
These guarantees are particularly relevant in the present case, as we are faced with a technological solution whose implementation would involve the processing of personal data of various kinds referring to minors in a digital environment through collaborative platforms and social network services. This may even include data related to "family and social background, personal characteristics or conditions," etc., as we will mention below.
Indeed, both in the LOE and in the LOPDGDD itself, guarantees and safeguards are established that must be observed when processing personal data, whether in general or in the use of digital environments and platforms.
Regarding the latter, the previously transcribed Article 111 bis refers to full compliance with the provisions of the applicable regulations on "privacy and personal data protection."
It is also necessary to mention what is indicated in the Twenty-Third Additional Provision, which under the title "Personal data of students" establishes a mandate directed expressly to educational centers:
1. Educational centers may collect the personal data of their students that are necessary for the exercise of their educational function. Such data may refer to family and social background, personal characteristics or conditions, the development and results of their schooling, as well as any other circumstances whose knowledge is necessary for the education and guidance of the students.
2. Parents or guardians and the students themselves must collaborate in obtaining the information referred to in this article. The incorporation of a student into an educational center will imply the processing of their data and, where applicable, the transfer of data from
Legal Office
of the center where the student was previously enrolled, under the terms established in the legislation on data protection. In any case, the information referred to in this section will be strictly necessary for the teaching and guidance function, and it may not be used for purposes other than educational without express consent.
3. In the processing of student data, technical and organizational standards will be applied to ensure their security and confidentiality. The teaching staff and other personnel who, in the exercise of their functions, access personal and family data or data affecting the honor and privacy of minors or their families will be subject to the duty of confidentiality.
4. The transfer of data, including confidential data necessary for the educational system, will preferably be carried out electronically and will be subject to the legislation on the protection of personal data. (...)
On its part, regarding the LOPDGDD, the first point to highlight is what is established in Article 83, which under the title "Right to Digital Education" states the following:
1. The educational system will guarantee the full integration of students into the digital society and the learning of responsible consumption and critical and safe use of digital media, respectful of human dignity, social justice, and environmental sustainability, constitutional values, fundamental rights, and particularly with respect to and the guarantee of personal and family privacy and the protection of personal data. (...)
Educational administrations must include in the development of the curriculum the digital competence referred to in the previous section, as well as the elements related to risk situations arising from the inappropriate use of ICT, with special attention to situations of online violence.
Secondly, the mandate of Article 92, which under the heading "Protection of Minors' Data on the Internet" expressly cites educational centers:
Educational centers and any natural or legal persons who carry out activities involving minors will guarantee the protection of the best interests of the minor and their fundamental rights, especially the right to the protection of personal data, in the publication or dissemination of their personal data through information society services.
When such publication or dissemination is to take place through social network services or equivalent services, they must have the consent of the minor or their legal representatives, in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of this organic law.
In this case, it is also necessary to take into account what is indicated in Article 8 of the GDPR as it intends to subject the personal data of minors to processing in the context of information society services.
The aforementioned provision indicates the following:
1. When Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a) applies, in relation to the direct offering to children of information society services, the processing of a child's personal data will be considered lawful when the child is at least 16 years old. If the child is under 16 years old, such processing will only be considered lawful if consent was given or authorized by the holder of parental authority or guardianship over the child, and only to the extent that it was given or authorized. Member States may establish by law a lower age for such purposes, provided that it is not less than 13 years.
(...)
The national legislator, under the authorization referred to in paragraph 1 of the aforementioned Article 8 of the GDPR, established the following in Article 7 of the LOPDGDD under the title "Consent of Minors."
2. The processing of personal data of a minor may only be based on their consent when they are over fourteen years old.
Exceptions are made in cases where the law requires the presence of the holders of parental authority or guardianship for the celebration of the act or legal transaction in which consent for processing is obtained.
Legal Office
2. The processing of data of minors under fourteen years of age, based on consent, shall only be lawful if it is obtained from the holder of parental authority or guardianship, to the extent determined by the holders of parental authority or guardianship.
IV
All these considerations must be supplemented by the “general” regulation of the GDPR and the LOPDGDD regarding the mandate directed to the data controller expressly stated in Article 24.1:
Taking into account the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing is in compliance with this Regulation. Such measures shall be reviewed and updated as necessary.
And also to recall the provisions of Article 32 of the GDPR, which states that:
1. Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller and the processor shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk, which may include, among others:
a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability, and resilience of processing systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process for regularly verifying, assessing, and evaluating the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of the processing.
2. In assessing the appropriateness of the level of security, particular consideration shall be given to the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a result of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, or alteration of personal data transmitted, stored, or otherwise processed, or the unauthorized communication or access to such data.
(…)
4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the processor and having access to personal data may only process such data on instructions from the controller, unless required to do so by Union or Member State law.
For its part, Article 35 of the GDPR provides as follows:
1. When it is likely that a type of processing, particularly if it uses new technologies, by its nature, scope, context, or purposes, entails a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall carry out, prior to the processing, an assessment of the impact of the processing operations on the protection of personal data. A single assessment may address a series of similar processing operations that entail similar high risks.
(…)
3. The data protection impact assessment referred to in paragraph 1 shall be required in particular in the case of:
a) systematic and comprehensive evaluation of personal aspects of natural persons based on automated processing, including profiling, and on which decisions are based that produce legal effects concerning the natural persons or similarly significantly affect them;
Legal Office
b) large-scale processing of special categories of data referred to in Article 9, paragraph 1, or of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offenses referred to in Article 10, or
(…)
7. The assessment must include at least:
a) a systematic description of the intended processing operations and the purposes of the processing, including, where appropriate, the legitimate interest pursued by the data controller;
b) an evaluation of the necessity and proportionality of the processing operations in relation to their purpose;
c) an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects referred to in paragraph 1, and
d) the measures envisaged to address the risks, including safeguards, security measures, and mechanisms that ensure the protection of personal data, and to demonstrate compliance with this Regulation, taking into account the rights and legitimate interests of the data subjects and other affected persons.
(…)
9. Where appropriate, the controller shall seek the opinion of the data subjects or their representatives regarding the intended processing, without prejudice to the protection of public or commercial interests or the security of the processing operations.
In accordance with the above, we cannot forget that we are in a context of digital tools that serve educational functions, with the consequence of processing personal data on a large scale of particularly vulnerable groups, and that, at times, such processing may include special categories of data, which identifies numerous elements that make the impact assessment mandatory.
Finally, it is essential for the case at hand to highlight what is indicated in Article 28, paragraph 2 of the LOPDGDD, which shows the elements that both the controller and the processor must take into account when applying the provisions of Articles 24 and 32 of the GDPR partially transcribed. Specifically, this provision states that:
2. In adopting the measures referred to in the previous paragraph, the controllers and processors shall take into account, in particular, the greater risks that could arise in the following cases:
a) When the processing could generate situations of discrimination, identity theft or fraud, financial losses, damage to reputation, loss of confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization, or any other significant economic, moral, or social harm to the affected individuals.
b) When the processing could deprive the affected individuals of their rights and freedoms or could prevent them from exercising control over their personal data.
c) When the processing is not merely incidental or accessory to the special categories of data referred to in Articles 9 and 10 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Articles 9 and 10 of this organic law or of data related to the commission of administrative offenses.
d) When the processing involves an evaluation of personal aspects of the affected individuals for the purpose of creating or using personal profiles of them, particularly through the analysis or prediction of aspects related to their performance at work, their economic situation, their health, their personal preferences or interests, their reliability or behavior, their financial solvency, their location, or their movements.
e) When the processing of data of groups of affected individuals in a situation of special vulnerability is carried out, particularly of minors and persons with disabilities.
f) When mass processing occurs that involves a large number of affected individuals or entails the collection of a large amount of personal data.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
14
Legal Office
g) When personal data is to be transferred, on a regular basis, to third countries or international organizations for which an adequate level of protection has not been declared.
(…)
V
Having described the legal framework to which the Google Technological Solution (or Google Workspace hereinafter) must adhere, it is appropriate to analyze what the object of the agreement would be, that is, what services Google will offer, which data or categories of data are subject to processing, and for what purpose they serve.
Beforehand, it is advisable to indicate that the consulting party provides as elements of analysis the Agreement and its Annexes I and II, which are the Terms of Service and the Data Protection Addendum, and it is worth mentioning that these documents do not contain information that this Legal Office considers essential not only to form an opinion and adequately carry out the proposed analysis but also for the consulting party itself when committing through the agreement, and especially when fulfilling its obligations as the data controller.
Starting with the Agreement itself, its object is defined in the following terms:
1.1.
This Agreement has a dual purpose:
1.1.1. On one hand, to establish the conditions for collaboration between the Parties for the use of Google Workspace for Education Services, as defined below, by INTEF regarding the educational centers in Ceuta and Melilla.
1.1.2. On the other hand, to establish a framework for collaboration between the Parties to promote technological innovation and the development of digital educational competence of students and teachers in Spanish territory.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
15

                                                           Legal 
Office
Well, the Google Workspace technological solution is defined in section II of the Preamble of the agreement, according to which the Workspace for Education technological solution is a package of tools designed to enable educators and students to innovate and learn together.
Regarding the services that this solution encompasses, it should be noted that from the reading of the documentation, it is deduced that there are products or services referred to as main and products or services referred to as additional. However, these are not defined in the contractual documentation, so the contracting Party, at least in the initial stage of the contracting process, is unaware of what these terms refer to.
To specify them, one must refer to other information sources, such as the Google website where Google Workspace is advertised. 
The main services are defined in a section of that website called “Service Summary”1 where they are listed and a brief explanation of their purpose is provided. 
Regarding the additional services or products, they are also not defined in the documents provided for the consultation (Agreement, Terms, and Addendum), so to specify them, even if approximately, one must refer to other URLs:
On the “Service Summary” page of the website workspace.google.com, there is a brief reference to the additional products which explicitly states that: 
They are not subject to the Google Workspace Agreement and are not considered Google Workspace Services. The use of Additional Products is subject to the Terms of Additional Products, available at https://workspace.google.com/terms/additional_services.html. Additionally, the use of the following Additional Products is subject to further terms.
This inapplicability of the terms of the agreement to such products or services is expressly stated in the Annexes of the Agreement:
Annex I Terms of Service.
1 https://workspace.google.com/intl/es/terms/user_features.html 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
16
Legal Office
3.5
Additional Products. Google makes Additional Products available to the Client and its End Users. The use of Additional Products is subject to the Additional Products Terms. The Client may enable or disable Additional Products at any time through the Admin Console. The Client must obtain parental consent to collect and use personal information in the Additional Products that it wishes to enable before allowing any End User under the age of 18 to access or use them.
Annex II Data Protection Addendum.
5.3
Additional Products. If Google, at its discretion, makes any Additional Product available to the Client in accordance with its Terms, and if the Client chooses to install or use such Additional Products, the Services may allow these to access the Client's personal Data as necessary for the interoperability of the Additional Products with the Services. For greater clarity, these Data Processing Terms do not apply to the processing of personal data in relation to the provision of any Additional Product used by the Client, including personal data transmitted from or to that Additional Product. The Client may activate or deactivate the Additional Products, as the use of such products is not required to make use of the Services.
That is to say, they are services that are not part of Google Workspace, but that, in principle, can be used as long as consent is obtained from minors under 18 years of age by the educational institution (the administrator) and that collect personal data from the main services "as necessary" for the interoperability of both, that is, for the interoperability of the main services and the additional services. 
However, it is not specified what these consist of, which is essential for the signatory of the agreement and, above all, the data controller, to have an idea, even if approximate, of the weight or necessity of use that these additional products will have in the main services that constitute the GW. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
17

                                                           Legal Office
Indeed, the data controller must know whether these additional products are fundamental for optimally exploiting the technological solution.  
In other words, if these essential products are not used, can the Educational Center make the most of Google Workspace? Since if the answer is negative -as explained later- and therefore their use is fundamental, even if they appear as optional in the Agreement, they would de facto be mandatory, with the consequences that this entails for the data protection of users. 
Let us remember that they would be outside the Agreement and therefore subject to the general conditions of any user when using Google services. 
And we cannot forget that we are dealing with minors and that the personal information used is of very diverse nature and of special sensitivity, potentially including, for example, special categories of data.
Well, and without prejudice to the fact that it is not stated in the documentation provided (ultimately, in the legal business, agreement, contract) what these additional products consist of, we must again refer to the various company websites where Google Workspace is advertised, specifically in the privacy terms it is indicated as follows:
The additional services of Google Workspace for Education include services that we make available to all consumers in general, such as Google Search, Maps, and YouTube, which users of Workspace for Education can access with their Workspace accounts.
In the “Google Workspace Admin Help” it is indicated as follows:
Additional services, such as YouTube, Google Maps, and Blogger, are designed for users of personal accounts and can be optionally used with Google Workspace for Education accounts if the domain administrator of each institution authorizes their use for educational purposes.
2 https://workspace.google.com/intl/es/terms/education_privacy.html    
3 https://support.google.com/a/answer/6356441 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
18
Legal Office
From the reading of these clauses, it is observed that products such as the Google search engine, Maps, and YouTube are excluded from the regulation of the agreement and that, therefore, the general conditions for any user would apply.  
That is to say, the information provided in the Agreement and in the Annexes regarding these additional services and the relevance of their interoperability with the main services is not offered with the clarity required, since something that is presented as voluntary will actually turn out to be necessary to provide the service under optimal conditions.  
This is fundamental from the perspective of the right to data protection and from the respect for the principle of fairness (art. 5.1.a) GDPR), as the data controller must have all possible information about the processing that their processor will carry out in order to assess the interference that the processing entails in the privacy of the affected individuals whose data is being processed on their behalf, and thus be able to convey the necessary information to the data subjects whose personal data will be subject to processing.  
The data controller should not have to resort, per se, to external information elements to assess to what extent it will be necessary to use the additional services that involve data processing in a less controlled environment and that, given the information provided—again on other websites—about what data is collected and the legal regime under which they are situated, is more invasive to the privacy of the affected individuals.  
VI  
Having defined the object of the agreement with the considerations indicated previously, it is appropriate to address what data will be subject to processing.  
To this end, the first step is to refer to the contractual information provided with the inquiry.  
The only reference to what data or categories of data will be subject to processing is the one that appears in Appendix 1 of Annex II referred to the Data Protection Addendum, where the following is stated:  
Categories of data  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
19  

                                                           Legal Office  
Data relating to individuals provided to Google through the Services, by (or under the direction of) the Client or the End Users.  
It is an essential aspect when a data controller is going to contract with a third party for a service that involves data processing to know what personal data will be subject to processing, something that in the present case is not stated in the contractual documentation.  
Indeed, the data controller must know in advance what personal data will be processed as a result of the service they entrust to Google through Google Workspace, and from the information contained in the contractual documentation, it is obvious that this is insufficient for this purpose.  
Again, it is necessary to refer to external information elements to know what data will be subject to processing.  
In the PRIVACY NOTICE4 of Google Workspace, information is provided about the collection of the following data based on the differentiation between Main Services and Additional Services:  
Main Services:  
Things provided or created through the main services  
We receive data from customers through the main services and process it according to the instructions of the school (the client).  
This customer data includes everything you or your school send, store, transmit, or receive through the main services.  
When a Google Workspace for Education account is created, the school provides Google with certain personal information about its students and educators, which includes the username, email address, and password. Schools may also choose to share things like the secondary email address, phone number, and address of a user. Users can also add information to their account, such as an additional phone number and a profile picture.  
4 https://workspace.google.com/intl/es/terms/education_privacy.html  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
20
Legal Office
The things you can create through the services include emails that you write and receive while using Gmail or documents that you draft and store in Drive.
Customer data is used to provide the core services; for example, Google processes your email address to send and deliver messages between teachers and students.
Information we collect as you use the core services
As fully described in the Google Cloud Privacy Notice, we also collect service data through the core services, which include:
• Your account information, which includes items such as your name and email address.
• Your activity while using the core services, which includes things like viewing and interacting with content, people you communicate with or share content with, and other details about your use of the services.
• Your settings, applications, browsers, and devices. We collect information about your settings and the applications, browsers, and devices you use to access our services. This information includes the type of device and browser, settings configurations, unique identifiers, operating system, mobile network information, and application version number. We also collect information about the interaction of your applications, browsers, and devices with our services, including IP address, crash reports, system activity, and the date and time of your request.
• Your location information. We collect information about your location determined by various technologies, such as IP address and GPS.
• Your direct communications. We maintain records of communications when you or your administrator provide feedback, ask questions, or seek technical support.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
21

                                                           Legal Office
• And for administrators, we collect data about payments and transactions.
Regarding additional services or products, which, while offered voluntarily, are as previously indicated "de facto" essential for the Google Workspace solution to be efficient for students to acquire ICT knowledge, it is indicated in the aforementioned GOOGLE WORKSPACE PRIVACY NOTICE that by using them, the following information is collected:
Additional services
Things you provide or create through additional services
As described in more detail in Google's Privacy Policy, we collect information when students and educators use additional services, including items you provide to us, content that is created or uploaded, and content received from others. For example, if you log into an additional service with a Workspace account, we will use your Workspace name and profile information to identify your account. You may also choose to save your content with Google, such as photos and videos.
Information we collect as you use additional services
Google's Privacy Policy also describes the information we collect as you use our additional services, which includes:
• Your activity while using additional services, which includes things like the terms you search for, the videos you watch, the content and ads you see and interact with, voice and audio information when you use audio features, purchase activity, and activity on third-party sites and applications that use our services.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
22
Legal Office
• Your applications, browsers, and devices. We collect information about your applications, browser, and devices as described earlier in the main services section.
• Your location information. We collect information about your location as determined by various technologies that include: GPS, IP address, sensor data from your device, and information about things nearby your device, such as Wi-Fi access points, cell towers, and Bluetooth-enabled devices. The types of location data we collect depend in part on your device and your account settings.

The information about which personal data is processed is not only included in the excerpt of the privacy notice just transcribed but also on other web pages, such as, for example, in the sign-up process to use Google Workspace that any Educational Center must complete:

Information We Collect
Google Workspace accounts for Educational Centers are Google accounts created and managed by an educational center for use by students and teachers. When creating these accounts, the center may provide Google with personal information about students and teachers, generally usernames, email addresses, and passwords; however, if deemed appropriate, it may also include addresses, phone numbers, and secondary email addresses. Google may also collect personal information directly from users of Google Workspace accounts for Educational Centers, such as their phone number, profile picture, or other data they add to their accounts in this service.

Google also collects information based on the use of our services, such as the following:
• Device information, such as hardware model, operating system version, unique device identifiers, and mobile network information, including the user's phone number.
• Log information, including details of how the user has used our service, device event data, and the user's Internet Protocol (IP) address.
• Location information, as determined by various technologies (e.g., IP address, GPS, and other sensors).
• Unique application numbers (such as the application version number).
• Cookies or similar technologies, which are used to collect and store information about a browser or device, such as preferred language or other settings.

Finally, continuing with the data that will be subject to processing by Google when providing the Google Workspace tool, special attention should be given to information that is not provided in the contractual documents, specifically regarding information sharing. In particular, in the aforementioned privacy policy hosted on the indicated website, the following section is included:

Sharing Your Information
When You Share Your Information
Your school administrator may allow students to access Google services, such as Google Docs and YouTube, which have features that enable users to share information with others or publicly. For example, if you leave a review on Google Play, your name and photo appear alongside your activity. And if you share a photo with a friend who then makes a copy or re-shares it, that photo may continue to appear in your friend's Google account even after you delete it from your Google account. Remember, when you share information publicly, your content may become accessible through search engines, including Google Search.

When Google Shares Your Information
As described in detail in Google's Privacy Policy and Google Cloud's Privacy Notice, we do not share your information.
Legal Office
personal with companies, organizations, or individuals outside of Google, except in the following cases:
• With your school administrator: your administrator and the resellers managing your Workspace account or that of your organization will have access to your information. For example, they may be able to:
  o View account information, activity, and statistics;
  o Change your account password;
  o Suspend or cancel access to your account;
  o Access your account information to comply with applicable law, regulation, legal process, or governmental request;
  o Restrict your ability to delete or edit your information or your privacy settings.
• With your consent: we will share personal information outside of Google when we have your consent or that of your parents.
• For external processing: we share personal information with our affiliates and other trusted external providers to process it on our behalf as we instruct them and in accordance with our Privacy Policy, the Google Cloud Privacy Notice, and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures.
• For legal reasons: we share personal information outside of Google if we believe in good faith that access, use, retention, or disclosure of the information is reasonably necessary for legal reasons, including compliance with enforceable governmental requests and the protection of you and Google.

It is essential that this information about information sharing is known both by the data controller and by the data subjects who will be subject to processing before using Google Workspace, both regarding the core services and the additional services, as it implies, on one hand, that personal data may be disclosed to third parties outside the educational community and on the other hand, that the educational institution itself accesses personal information, including in some cases intimate information of the holders of Google Workspace user accounts. Please note that administrators will be able to, for example, change the account password, which would allow access to all personal information.

In summary, the information about the data collected, both in its quantitative and qualitative aspects, constitutes a key element for the data controller to comply with the principle of proactive responsibility and the principle of transparency and right to information, as further analyzed below, and also to address the interference with the right to data protection in relation to the purpose pursued, and ultimately to analyze compliance with the principle of proportionality as explained later.

VII
Regarding the purpose that would be pursued by the processing derived from the implementation of Google Workspace, its analysis will be relevant as any data processing must be "necessary" to fulfill the purpose pursued; otherwise, data processing should not take place. 

This is reminded to us by Recital 39 of the GDPR, which states: Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be achieved by other means.

Furthermore, the concept of "necessity" becomes particularly relevant when defining the different legal bases for legitimizing the processing, since except for the one related to consent (letter a) of art. 6.1. GDPR), in the remaining ones, letters b) to f) of section 1 of article 6 of the GDPR, the "necessity of processing for" is an unavoidable requirement.

That said, and considering the contractual documentation provided with the request for this Report, the purpose is only addressed in Appendix 1 of the Data Protection Addendum, from which it follows that the information about the purpose is as follows:
Legal Office
Nature and Purpose of Processing
Google will process the client's personal data in order to provide the Services and TSS to the Client in accordance with the Data Processing Addendum. 
It happens again that another aspect as relevant as the purpose of processing has such scant mention in the contractual documentation. 
Once again, the signatory of the agreement and, where applicable, the data controller will be deprived of fundamental information, which requires prior determination in the specification of their legal relationship with the data processor. 
That is to say, the data controller, when determining "the purpose of processing," must have all the necessary information regarding what the data processor will carry out "on its own." 
As is the case with other fundamental elements that should be included by contract, it is necessary to refer to external sources. 
In the information about the main services or products, from the aforementioned Privacy Notice hosted on the Google Workspace for Education website, the following information about the purpose can be extracted (despite not being defined or referred to as such): 
In the section related to the main services, the following is stated: 
Service data is primarily used to provide the services that schools and students use, but it is also used to maintain and improve the services; make recommendations to optimize the use of the services; provide and improve other services that are requested; offer support; protect our users, clients, the public, and Google; and comply with legal obligations. Please refer to the Google Cloud Privacy Notice for more information. 
In the section related to additional services, the following is stated: 
The data we collect in additional services is used across all our services to provide, maintain, and improve our services; develop new services; provide personalized services; performance measurement; communicate with you; and protect Google, our users, and the public. Please refer to the Google Privacy Policy for more details. 
Some additional services display advertisements. However, if you use your Google Workspace for Education account in primary and secondary schools, we do not show you personalized ads, which means we do not use information from your account or previous activity to target ads. However, we may show ads based on general factors such as your search query, the time of day, or the content of a page you are reading. 
(…).”
In summary, for the main services, the purposes of processing will generally be the provision of services, but there are also other additional purposes such as the following: improving services; making recommendations to optimize the use of services; providing and improving other services that are requested; offering support; protecting our users, clients, the public, and Google. 
Regarding the purposes of additional products, those such as providing personalized services, performance measurement, and displaying ads based on general factors such as searches made, the time of day, or the content of a page being viewed, as well as the combination of personal information from one service with that collected from another, should be highlighted. 
As can be observed, there are purposes that do not serve the purpose of the data controller—only that of the "processor"—and are also defined in ambiguous and vague terms (improving services, offering support, etc.), and others are inferred to arise from profiling (displaying ads based on general factors). 
That is to say, if the purposes do not serve the purpose of processing, which is the right to education, and instead respond to the purposes of the processor, the consequence will be that it becomes the data controller and must find another legal basis other than that which legitimizes the "primary" controller, that is, the educational administration. 
In other words, if Google, through Google Workspace, processes personal data for its own purposes that have nothing to do with the educational purpose, it must find a legal basis for such processing.
Legal Office
Regarding the right to education, it can no longer legitimize its processing under Article 6.1 c) and/or e) of the GDPR as the educational administration does. 

That said, concerning the issue of displaying advertisements based on general factors, which involves profiling for advertising actions, it is necessary to recall what is stated in Regulation 2022/2065 of the European Parliament and of the Council of October 19, 2022, -Digital Services Regulation-, applicable from February 17, 2024, which imposes the following obligations on online platform providers regarding profiling carried out using personal data of minors:

Article 28 Protection of Minors Online
1. Online platform providers accessible to minors shall establish appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure a high level of privacy, security, and protection of minors in their service.
2. Online platform providers shall not present advertisements on their interface based on profiling, as defined in Article 4, point 4, of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, using personal data of the service recipient when they are reasonably aware that the service recipient is a minor.
3. Compliance with the obligations established in this article shall not require online platform providers to process additional personal data to assess whether the service recipient is a minor.
4. The Commission, after consulting the Board, may provide guidelines to assist online platform providers in implementing paragraph 1.

In any case, the data controller is not in a position to know a priori and without ambiguity the purposes that the implementation of Google Workspace would pursue, neither from the information provided in the contractual documents nor from external sources of information. 

And as stated before, for the data controller to clearly understand elements that are fundamental for such processing, such as the object of the agreement, the data to be processed, or the purpose of the processing, is essential, both to comply with the new model of GDPR compliance, which rests on proactive responsibility, and to know what information to provide to data subjects about the processing that will be carried out, going through the analysis of the context of the processing and accurately determining the appropriate security measures.

VIII
According to what has been stated in the previous sections of this report, it is concluded that, to the extent that we are dealing with a package of digital tools consisting of different services—main and so-called additional—and that therefore, depending on which ones are used—determined by Google and not by INTEF, as deduced from the agreement itself and its annexes, where it is established that both main and additional services depend on what is offered at any given moment—it is possible to process different types of personal data and consequently cover various purposes, it is difficult to establish the legal basis for legitimizing the processing of data under sections c) and e) of Article 6.1 of the GDPR.

Indeed, since the Agreement and annexes, and other sources of information, provide information in which sometimes the purposes of the controller (satisfying the right to education in digital environments) are mixed with those of the supposed processor, and at other times clearly serve the purposes of the processor, it is not possible to legitimize such processing under sections c) and e) of Article 6.1 of the GDPR.

Section 6.3 of the GDPR tells us that:
3. The basis for the processing indicated in paragraph 1, letters c) and e), must be established by: a) Union Law, or b) the Law of the Member States applicable to the data controller. The purpose of the processing must be determined in that legal basis or, regarding the processing referred to in paragraph 1, letter e), it will be necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority conferred on the data controller.
Legal Office
responsible for the processing. This legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, among others: the general conditions governing the legality of the processing by the controller; the types of data subject to processing; the affected data subjects; the entities to which personal data may be communicated and the purposes of such communication; the limitation of purpose; the retention periods for the data, as well as the operations and procedures of the processing, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those related to other specific processing situations under Chapter IX. The law of the Union or of the Member States shall serve a public interest objective and shall be proportionate to the legitimate aim pursued.

For its part, Article 8 of the LOPDGDD indicates to us, under the heading “Processing of data by legal obligation, public interest, or exercise of public powers” that:
1. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the fulfillment of a legal obligation enforceable against the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when such is provided for by a rule of European Union law or a rule with the rank of law, which may determine the general conditions of processing and the types of data subject to it as well as the transfers that may occur as a consequence of the fulfillment of the legal obligation. Such a rule may also impose special conditions on processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
2. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred to the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when it derives from a competence attributed by a rule with the rank of law. 

Indeed, in Article 27 of the Constitution, in the laws of transfer of competences from the State in favor of the Autonomous Communities, and in Articles 2.1.l) and 111 bis and the twenty-third additional provision of the LOE, we could find the legal basis for the processing of data in the educational field through technological tools and digital environments for the acquisition of ICT skills.

That is to say, we would be facing the cases of legitimization provided for in letters c) and e) of Article 6, paragraph 1 of the GDPR.

Now, as mentioned earlier, regarding the object of the agreement and the processing that would be carried out as a consequence of its signing, given that there are purposes that exceed the educational scope and that serve solely the interests of the party that, according to the agreement, is established as the “processor,” such processing cannot be legitimized under Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR since a hypothetical public interest would be subordinated or conditioned to the private and particular interest of the supposed processor, a situation that must be completely rejected.

The same would happen with the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the controller as a legal basis provided in Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR, simply because processing for purposes such as improving services or displaying advertisements based on general factors is obviously not mandatory for the true controller of the processing—the educational administration—and even less so is it provided for as such in a rule with the rank of law (Article 8.2 LOPDGDD).

IX
Once the object of the agreement, the data collected, the purpose pursued, and how information about it is provided have been analyzed, it is necessary to analyze the legal instrument that the Agreement itself provides to show the consent for the use of the services offered by the Google tool by educational centers.

In Annex I of the agreement, referring to the Terms of Service of Google Workspace (GW), the following is stated:
3.3
Privacy. The Client is responsible for obtaining the consents and providing the necessary notices to allow:
Legal Office
 a) the use and receipt of the Services by the Client; and
 b) the access, storage, and processing by Google of the data provided by the Client (including the Client Data) under the Agreement.
That is to say, the obligation falls on the signatory of the agreement, INTEF, to ensure that when implementing GW, consent has been obtained from both the client (which would be the Educational Center) and the users (which would be any member of the educational community who is a recipient of the technological solution, such as the administrator, teachers, and students, whether under 14 years old or not).
In this regard, it is necessary to bring to attention the information displayed during the service registration process by an Educational Center, where under the heading “Consent of the center for the use of Google Workspace for Educational Centers” the following appears:
For students to use the Main Services of Google Workspace for Educational Centers ("Main Services"), it is essential that the centers give their consent.
Review the following information about our practices for obtaining, using, and disclosing data related to Google Workspace for Educational Centers and indicate your agreement below. Google will not intentionally collect, use, or disclose personal information of students unless you have given your consent.
Please note that it is also necessary for educational centers to obtain consent from parents or guardians regarding any additional service they make available to students under 18 years old. Additionally, as a best practice, it may be advisable for centers to obtain consent from parents or guardians regarding the use of the Main Services they offer to students. Consult the resources available for obtaining consent from parents or guardians, including a template that you can customize and use in your specific case.
(…)
6 https://workspace.google.com/edu/signup/tos?hl=en
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
33

                                                           Legal Office
The website has other subsections related to “Information we collect” and “how we use the information we collect” that have been previously transcribed, concluding with a final section titled “Consent” which states the following:
By clicking "I accept," you give your consent, on behalf of your institution, for Google to process the personal information of students in the Main Services as described above and in accordance with the privacy notice of Google Workspace for Educational Centers and Google’s privacy policy, and you agree to obtain consent from parents or guardians regarding any additional service you make available to students under 18 years old.
From reading these clauses, it is observed that the Client, that is, INTEF, commits, by signing the agreement, to obtain the consents and to carry out the necessary notifications to be able to use Google Workspace and, consequently, to be able to subject to processing by Google that information that contains personal data of students and teachers.
The way to articulate that obtaining of consents would occur through several stages or phases.
As deduced from the information displayed in the service registration process, the first thing that would happen is that the person registering gives consent on behalf of the institution, that is, the Educational Center, for Google to process the data of the students and obviously, at a later moment, obtains the consent of the students.
Therefore, first, the educational center authorizes the use of the Google Workspace service, and for its implementation, the Educational Center assumes the commitment to obtain the consent of the data subjects.
Regarding that authorization or consent that the Educational Center must provide, it is obvious that we are not dealing with the consent referred to in Articles 4.11, 6.1 a), and 7 of the GDPR, but it must be understood as a contractual authorization or a commitment to undertake to do something, since obviously, that Educational Center could never grant the consent of third parties for the processing of their personal data.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
34
Legal Office
Therefore, we are faced with an authorization from the Educational Center to bind itself or submit to the terms of use of Google Workspace. That is to say, we are dealing with a kind of "consent to contract" with the legal nature of consent—as a requirement for contracts—referred to in Article 1261 of the Civil Code, which must be free from error (Articles 1265 and 1266 of the Civil Code). For this, it is essential to have all the necessary information, which, as we have seen in the present case, is not provided with the signing of the agreement.

Having said that, the second phase or step to follow is for the Educational Center to request from the parents, and where applicable, from the students, consent for the use of Google Workspace. This consent referred to by Google aims to be articulated as one of the legal bases that legitimizes this processing; however, as previously indicated, the legal basis for the processing of personal data resulting from the implementation of technological solutions and the use of digital environments by the educational administration is found in Article 6.1 e) of the GDPR, and sometimes also in paragraph c) of that article, and not in consent.

We are dealing with different processes that exceed the educational function and that serve to a large extent Google's own interests—meaning the supposed data processor, which makes it responsible for the processing—therefore, the legal basis indicated in Article 6.1 c) and e) of the GDPR cannot be established.

A different matter is that Google—albeit indirectly—“proposes” consent as a legal instrument that legitimizes the processing it is going to carry out, as deduced from the contractual terms and those found in the various informational sources that have been cited.

That said, consent as a legal basis for processing is defined in Article 4.11 of the GDPR, which considers it to be: any manifestation of free, specific, informed, and unequivocal will by which the data subject accepts, either by a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data concerning them.

Recital 43 of the GDPR indicates that:
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
35

                                                           Legal Office
(43) To ensure that consent has been freely given, it must not constitute a valid legal basis for the processing of personal data in a specific case where there is a clear imbalance between the data subject and the data controller, particularly when the controller is a public authority and it is therefore unlikely that consent has been freely given in all circumstances of that particular situation. Consent is presumed not to have been freely given when it does not allow for the separate authorization of the different operations of personal data processing despite being appropriate in the specific case, or when the fulfillment of a contract, including the provision of a service, is dependent on consent, even when this is not necessary for such fulfillment.

According to the definition, and in relation to the use of Google Workspace by students, we must first focus on the note of freedom.

In the Guidelines 5/2020 on consent in the sense of the GDPR, dated May 4, 2020, from the European Data Protection Board (EDPB), it indicates the following:
3. In general, consent can only be an adequate legal basis if it offers the data subject control and a real ability to choose whether to accept or reject the offered conditions or to reject them without suffering any detriment. When requesting consent, the data controller has the obligation to assess whether such consent will meet all the requirements for obtaining valid consent. If obtained in full compliance with the GDPR, consent is a tool that gives data subjects control over whether their personal data will be processed or not. If this is not the case, the data subject's control will be merely illusory, and consent will not be a valid legal basis for processing, which will render such processing activity unlawful.
(…)
13. The term "free" implies real choice and control by the data subjects. As a general rule, the GDPR establishes that if the data subject... 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
36
Legal Office
is not truly free to choose, feels compelled to give their consent or will suffer negative consequences if they do not, then consent cannot be considered valid. If consent is included as a non-negotiable part of the general conditions, it is assumed that it has not been given freely. Consequently, consent will not be considered freely given if the interested party cannot deny or withdraw their consent without detriment. The notion of imbalance between the data controller and the interested party is also taken into account in the GDPR.

14. When assessing whether consent has been given freely, the specific situations in which consent is conditioned on the execution of contracts or the provision of a service, as described in Article 7, paragraph 4, must also be considered. Article 7, paragraph 4, has been drafted in a non-exhaustive manner by using the expression "among other things," which means that there may be other circumstances that fall within the scope of this provision. In general terms, consent will be invalidated by any undue influence or pressure exerted on the interested party (which can manifest in very different ways) that prevents them from exercising their free will.

Taking into account what is indicated in Guidelines 5/2020, in this case, we cannot understand that a hypothetical consent given by the parents of the students, or even by the students themselves if they are over fourteen years old, would be granted freely. 

The reason is obvious: if the Educational Center is going to use Google Workspace tools as support for the curricular subjects and for the acquisition of digital skills, the student for whom consent has not been obtained would automatically be excluded from this part of the teaching, that is, the contents and activities that are taught using Google Workspace tools would not be offered to that student, and the student would be excluded from the work dynamics, suffering a comparative grievance translated into an undeniable detriment. 

Conversely, the same would happen if, once consent has been granted, it is wished to be revoked. In this regard, the aforementioned Guidelines indicate that:

46. The data controller must demonstrate that it is possible to deny or withdraw consent without suffering any detriment (recital 42).

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
37

                                                           Legal Office
For example, the data controller must demonstrate that the withdrawal of consent will not incur any cost for the interested party and, therefore, no clear disadvantage for those who withdraw their consent.

47. Other examples of detriment include deception, intimidation, coercion, or significant negative consequences if an interested party does not give their consent. The data controller must be able to demonstrate that the interested party was able to exercise a free or real choice when giving their consent and that it was possible for them to withdraw it without suffering any detriment.

48. If the data controller can demonstrate that a service includes the possibility of withdrawing consent without any negative consequences occurring, for example, without diminishing the level of service to the detriment of the user, this will be sufficient to prove that consent was given freely.

In this case, if there is no alternative to Google Workspace, it would lower the level of education provided to the student who does not give or withdraw consent.

Another element analyzed when assessing the freedom of consent is the power imbalance. The Guidelines 5/2020 from the EDPB tell us that:

13 (…) It is also clear in most cases that the interested party will not have realistic alternatives to accept the processing (the processing conditions) of that controller. The EDPB considers that there are other legal bases that are, in principle, more appropriate for the processing of data by public authorities.

In this case, consent would be given in a context of imbalance between the data controller and the interested party, that is, the educational center on one side and the student on the other, with the former being the controller and the one to whom consent is given.

The data controller, in order to obtain free consent, should provide an equivalent alternative to the student who does not grant their consent to use Google Workspace. That is, it would have to have other similar digital tools, in the sense that the student who is... 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
38
Legal Office
would not suffer a comparative grievance or harm of any kind.
Here, the treatment of the data of teachers deserves special attention, as they would inevitably have a Google Workspace user account created for them. In this case, obtaining consent as a legal basis for their data to be used by Google would also not be appropriate. Thus, the Guidelines 5/2020 of the EDPB remind us that:
21. A power imbalance also occurs in the context of employment. Given the dependency that results from the relationship between employer and employee, it is unlikely that the individual could deny their employer consent for data processing without experiencing fear or real risk that their refusal would have adverse effects. It seems unlikely that an employee could freely respond to a request for consent from their employer to, for example, activate camera surveillance systems in the workplace or to fill out evaluation forms, without feeling pressured to give their consent. Therefore, the EDPB considers it problematic for employers to process the personal data of current or future employees based on consent, as it is unlikely that this consent would be freely given. In most cases of data processing at work, the legal basis cannot and should not be the consent of the workers [Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a)] due to the nature of the relationship between employer and employee.
22. However, this does not mean that employers can never rely on consent as a legal basis for data processing. There may be situations in which the employer can demonstrate that consent has been given freely. Given the power imbalance between an employer and their staff members, workers can only give their free consent in exceptional circumstances, when the fact that they grant or do not grant such consent does not have adverse consequences.
Furthermore, given the interference in privacy that has been revealed and the purpose pursued by the processing in question, it would hardly fit the processing of employee data under Article 6.1 b) of the GDPR, -execution of a contract-, since the quantum of "necessity" to fulfill the employment relationship raises doubts.
In this regard, the Guidelines 5/2020 of the EDPB remind us of the following:
30. According to Opinion 06/2014 of the GT29, the expression "necessary for the execution of a contract" must be interpreted strictly. The processing must be necessary to fulfill the contract with each individual concerned. This may include, for example, processing the individual's address so that purchased products can be delivered online, or processing credit card data to facilitate payment. In the employment context, this principle would allow, for example, the processing of salary information and bank account data so that wages can be paid. There must be a direct and objective link between the processing of the data and the purpose of executing the contract.
Another essential characteristic of consent is that it must be informed.
Here, the circumstance that has been highlighted during the analysis conducted in the previous sections of this report, regarding the object of the agreement (the services it consists of), the data collected, and the purpose of the processing, is particularly relevant, and it is none other than the scarce information -in some cases nonexistent- that the contractual documentation (Agreement, Annex I Terms of Service, and Annex II Data Protection Addendum) provided on these aspects.
If the recipient of the obligation to obtain informed consent —assuming for purely dialectical purposes that it is the educational administration and that it must refer to Article 6.1 a) of the GDPR and not to 6.1 e) of the GDPR— lacks knowledge of basic aspects of the processing that their processor is going to carry out, how can the controller provide sufficient information to the data subjects from whom they will request consent?
Additionally, it should be noted that we are dealing with the processing of data of minors, both those under 14 years old and those over 14 years old and under 18 years old. The information that must be provided must be adapted to that age.
Recital 58 of the GDPR tells us that:
Legal Office
Given that children deserve specific protection, any information and communication that affects them must be provided in clear and simple language that is easy to understand. 
Providing information to the interested parties before obtaining their consent is essential for them to make informed decisions, understand what they are authorizing, and, for example, exercise their right to withdraw their consent. If the data controller does not provide accessible information, the user's control will be illusory, and consent will not constitute a valid basis for data processing. 
Regarding the minimum requirements for consent to be considered informed, the Guidelines 5/2020 outline the following:
I. the identity of the data controller 
II. the purpose of each of the processing operations for which consent is requested, 
III. what (type of) data will be collected and used,
IV. the existence of the right to withdraw consent,
V. information about the use of data for automated decisions in accordance with Article 22, paragraph 2, letter c), when relevant, and
VI. information about the potential risks of data transfer due to the absence of an adequacy decision and appropriate safeguards, as described in Article 46.
In this case, at a minimum, the requirements just mentioned should be communicated for consent to be informed. 
And regarding how to inform, the Guidelines 5/2020 state that:
67. When requesting consent, data controllers must ensure that they use clear and simple language in all cases. That is to say, the message must be understandable to an average citizen and not just to legal professionals. Data controllers cannot use very extensive privacy policies that are difficult to understand or statements filled with legal jargon. (...)
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
41

                                                           Legal Office
68. The data controller must ensure that consent is provided based on information that allows the interested parties to easily identify who the controller is and understand what they are authorizing. The controller must clearly describe the purpose of the data processing for which consent is requested.
70. The data controller must assess the type of audience that provides data to their organization. For example, in the case of specific audiences that include interested parties who are minors, the data controller is expected to ensure that the language is understandable for that group. After determining their audience, data controllers must determine what information they need to provide and subsequently how they will present that information to the interested parties.
Ultimately, if consent is intended to be used to utilize Google Workspace—without prejudice to the legal basis being Article 6.1 e) GDPR when the purposes of processing are educational—information should be offered considering that many families may not have sufficient knowledge about the implications of processing their children's data (especially storage, retention, and dissemination) and sometimes those of other family members who use devices and the same connection as the minor user of a Google Workspace account and who do not have enough information to make a complex and weighed decision, and may even be unaware that other alternatives, other digital tools, may exist to achieve the same purpose. Only by taking these aspects into account would we be facing free and informed consent in that case.
Another requirement of consent is that it must be specific to each purpose; it must be a specific expression of will. In this regard, the Guidelines 5/2020 indicate that:
55. (…) The requirement that consent must be "specific" aims to ensure a level of control and transparency for the interested party. This requirement has not been modified by the GDPR and remains closely linked to the requirement of "informed" consent. At the same time, it must be interpreted in line with the requirement of "dissociation" to obtain "free" consent. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
42
Legal Office
In summary, to fulfill the "specific" nature, the data controller must apply:
i
the specification of purpose as a safeguard against misuse,
ii
the dissociation in consent requests, and
iii
a clear separation between the information related to obtaining consent for data processing activities and the information related to other matters.
(…)
57.
If the data controller relies on Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), the data subjects must always give their consent for a specific purpose for the processing of the data. In accordance with the concept of purpose limitation, with Article 5, paragraph 1, letter b), and with Recital 32, consent may cover different operations, provided that such operations have the same purpose. It goes without saying that specific consent can only be obtained when data subjects are expressly informed about the intended purposes for the use of their data.
58. (…). If a controller processes data based on consent and also wishes to process that data for another purpose, they must obtain consent for that other purpose, unless there is another legal basis that better reflects the situation.
60 (…) a data controller seeking consent for several distinct purposes must provide the option to opt for each purpose, so that users can give specific consent for specific purposes.
61(…), data controllers must provide, with each separate consent request, specific information about the data that will be processed for each purpose, so that data subjects are aware of the implications of the different options available to them. This allows data subjects to give specific consent. This issue overlaps with the requirement for controllers to provide clear information.
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
43

                                                           Legal Office
In this case, and without prejudice to the fact that the contractual documentation only indicates that the purpose of the processing is for the provision of the service, as has been highlighted in the analysis of other external sources of information about Google Workspace, it is observed that there are distinct purposes that involve, for example, profiling or the dissemination of minors' data through information society services, and that according to what has been stated, if consent is to be obtained for all of them, it should be done individually, in the sense of being able to accept some without having to accept others. The same would apply to revocation.
In this regard, the indication in Article 92 of the LOPDGDD, as previously cited, is particularly relevant, which states:
Article 92. Protection of minors' data on the Internet.
Educational institutions and any natural or legal persons that carry out activities involving minors shall ensure the protection of the best interests of the minor and their fundamental rights, especially the right to the protection of personal data, in the publication or dissemination of their personal data through information society services.
When such publication or dissemination is to take place through social network services or equivalent services, they must have the consent of the minor or their legal representatives, in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of this organic law.
Finally, it should be noted that consent must be given through a clear affirmative action and, in some cases, it must be explicit consent. 
This last qualification ("explicit") may refer to situations where there is a serious risk concerning data protection and where it is considered appropriate to have a high level of control over personal data. Under the GDPR, explicit consent plays an important role in Article 9 regarding the processing of special categories of personal data, in the provisions concerning the transfer of data to third countries or international organizations in the absence of adequate safeguards, as established in Article 49, and in Article 22 regarding decisions.
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
44
Legal Office
automated individuals, including profiling. (Section 91 of the Guidelines 5/2020).
In this case, by using Google Workspace services, special categories of data could be processed, such as health data or data related to ethnic or racial origin, as well as, given the terms of the contractual documentation analyzed later, international data transfers to countries without guarantees, and even profiling may occur, as inferred from the documentation and external sources of information analyzed.
X
On another note, the applicant requests the opinion of this Agency regarding the legal regime applicable to the agreement and specifically about the provisions concerning the coexistence of various documents that would regulate the implementation of GW and the possibility of unilateral modification of the same.
The contractual documentation consists of the Agreement, Annex I Terms of Service, and Annex II related to the Data Protection Addendum, where rules of precedence are established in case of conflict and the possibility of unilaterally modifying the contractual terms by Google, that is, without the intervention of INTEF.
In the Agreement, it is stated in section 1.2 that:
1.2.
The Parties acknowledge and agree that the use of the Services is governed by the following agreements, which are part of, and incorporated into, this Agreement:
● the Terms of Service for Workspace for Education included as Annex 1 (“Terms of Workspace for Education”) to this Agreement, and
● the most current version of the Data Processing Addendum available at any time at https://workspace.google.com/terms/dpa_terms.html, whose translation of the version in force at the time of signing this Agreement is included for reference purposes only as Annex 2 to this Agreement.
For its part, section 9 contains the following clauses:
9.1. Interpretation. In case of conflict between the sections that make up this Agreement, they shall be interpreted in the following order of preference (in descending order of preference): the Data Processing Addendum, the Terms of Workspace for Education, and the General Clauses of the Agreement.
9.3. Severability. If a clause of this Agreement (or part of it) is declared invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
In Annex I related to the Terms of Service for Workspace for Education, the following clauses are stated:
1.5
 Modifications
(a) Services. Google may make commercially reasonable changes to the Services when it deems appropriate. Google will inform the Customer if it makes any material change to the Services that substantially affects the Customer's use of the Services and the Customer has agreed with Google to receive information about such change.
(…)
(d) Data Processing Addendum. Google may only modify the Data Processing Addendum if the changes in question are necessary to comply with applicable laws and regulations, a court order, or a directive published by a regulatory body or a government agency; if the changes in question are expressly permitted in the Data Processing Addendum; or if the changes in question:
(i) are commercially reasonable;
(ii) do not degrade the overall security of the Services;
(iii) do not expand the scope or eliminate any restriction on the processing of "Customer Personal Data" by Google, as established in the section.
Legal Office
"Scope of Application of the Processing" of the Data Processing Addendum; and
(iv) it does not have a materially adverse impact on the rights of the Client under the Data Processing Addendum.
In Annex II referred to the Data Processing Addendum, in the section Definitions, the following should be highlighted:
● By Google Workspace Service Summary, it will be understood as: the current description of the Google Workspace services (including related editions), as established at https://workspace.google.com/terms/user_features.html (which may be updated by Google in accordance with the Google Workspace Agreement).
As can be observed, there are clauses, both in the Agreement itself and in the Annexes, that allow Google to unilaterally modify essential elements that have an undeniable impact on the processing of personal data.
Thus, for example, there is a reference to the "most current version of the Data Processing Addendum available at any given time," something that could conflict with the provisions of Article 1256 of the Civil Code, since, in the event of an interpretative conflict, it is precisely that document that prevails, and it is a document that Google can unilaterally modify, even if it is when it believes the conditions set forth in Annex I of the Agreement (section 1.5, letter d), subsections i) to iv), are met.
Or also, when Google is allowed to make “commercially reasonable changes to the Services when it deems appropriate.”
In any case, even admitting these clauses, it seems that we are rather facing Google as a data controller rather than as a processor (which is formally how it is presented), as it assumes a decision-making position without the other party and imposes contractual conditions with undeniable consequences on the processing of personal data.
In this specific area of data protection, which is the sole focus of this report, this would imply that the data controller would be unaware, or in any case, may be unaware, of how personal data will be processed at any given moment on its own. Therefore,
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
47

                                                           Legal Office
even if it were understood hypothetically that the modifications that Google could unilaterally make do not conflict with Article 1256 CC, they do prevent recognizing that in this situation Google is supposedly the processor of the processing, since it imposes on the controller contractual conditions that the latter would still be obliged to comply with, which effectively does not allow considering that this is the true controller. This would empty the concept of the data controller of its content, and we could not consider that there exists, in the specific case, a true processing assignment.
In this regard, it is necessary to clarify that a negative stance is not being shown towards the terms of the contract being drafted, on the one hand, and the other party merely being able to adhere, as provided in section 108 of Guidelines 7/2020: (…) Sometimes, contracts between controllers and processors may be drafted unilaterally by one of the parties. The drafting by one party or the other may depend on various factors, such as the position of the parties in the market and their contractual power, their technical knowledge, and their access to legal services. For example, some service providers tend to set standard conditions, which include agreements on data processing. (…) but our view is contrary to considering as responsible one who has to bear the unilateral changes of the legal relationship by the other party, supposedly the processor (without now entering, it is reiterated, into the validity, or not, purely civil of such clauses).
Regarding the relationship between the controller and the processor, the aforementioned Guidelines 7/2020 state that the data controller determines the purposes and means of processing; that is, the why and how of the processing. It must decide both on the purposes and on the means (…) or that “The processor must process the data solely following the instructions of the controller.”
Well, considering the possibility of unilateral modification of the contract by Google and the definition of changing terms that are mandatory for the parties, it is difficult for the data controller to decide on the means or for the processor to comply with the instructions of the controller, because if it did, it would be doing so on processes that the former has not determined, but rather the processor itself has.
Control over the processing is an essential element to define the figure of the data controller. The aforementioned Guidelines 7/2020 indicate that 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
48
Legal Office
25 (…) the qualification of a party as "data controller" must be established based on an assessment of the factual circumstances in which the processing takes place. To reach a conclusion about whether a specific entity exerts a decisive influence regarding the processing of the personal data in question, all relevant factual circumstances must be taken into account. (…)
28. (…) Even if the contract does not stipulate who is the data controller, it may contain sufficient elements to infer who has the decision-making power regarding the purposes and means of the processing (…)
In the present case, as the contractual terms (agreement and annexes) are presented, it is evident that Google has decision-making power regarding the means of processing. (and we are not referring to non-essential means - paragraph 38 of Guidelines 7/2020 - since the ability to configure the Data Processing Addendum places Google in a decisive position).
Additionally, it should be noted that, among the purposes that have been analyzed, there are some that serve Google's own purposes, and in this regard, the purposes must be limited to the contracted service, that is, to the processing that has been "commissioned." In this sense, Article 33.2 of the LOPDGDD reminds us in its last paragraph that: A person who, appearing as a processor, uses the data for their own purposes will also be considered a data controller. Or Article 28.10 of the GDPR itself: Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 82, 83, and 84, if a processor infringes this Regulation by determining the purposes and means of processing, they will be considered a data controller with respect to that processing.
In conclusion, the regulation on the terms applicable to the legal relationship arising from the Agreement and Annexes, and, where applicable, the practical application thereof would be contrary to the GDPR for the reasons stated.
XI
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
49

                                                           Legal Office
Another issue raised by the consultant relates to the regulation of the sub-processor and the possibilities that their selection may involve international data transfers to countries or organizations that do not provide an adequate level of protection.
Annex II states the following:
10.1
Data storage and processing facilities. In accordance with Google's data location commitments under the Specific Terms of Service and the rest of this section 10 (Data Transfers), Customer Data may be processed in any country where Google or its Sub-processors have facilities.
Regarding international data transfers, it should only be noted that, although it may seem obvious, they must comply with the provisions of the GDPR and especially with the Adequacy Decisions applicable to the specific transfer in question, so any assumption of obligation by INTEF must take into account the regulatory framework in force at any given time, which must be decisive when the controller (INTEF) accepts a sub-processor.
In this regard, it is important to recall what is indicated in Guidelines 7/2020 in its paragraph 120:
120.
The EDPB recommends that the data controller pay due attention to this specific point, especially when the processor intends to delegate certain processing activities to other processors or when it has divisions or units established in third countries. If the instructions of the data controller do not authorize transfers or communications to third countries, the processor will not be allowed to assign the processing to a sub-processor from a third country nor to process the data in any of its divisions not established in the territory of the EU.
That said, regarding the subcontracting regime in the regulation in Annex II, the following is indicated:
11.1
Consent for the engagement of the Data Processing Sub-processor. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
50
Legal Department
The Client specifically authorizes the engagement of the entities listed as Sub-processors for data processing starting from the Effective Date of the Addendum at the URL specified in section 11.2 (Information about the Sub-processors). Furthermore, without prejudice to section 11.4 (Opportunity to object to changes in the Sub-processors), the Client generally authorizes the engagement of any other third party (“New Sub-processors”).

11.2
Information about the Sub-processors.
Information about the Sub-processors, including their functions and locations, is available at

https://workspace.google.com/intl/en/terms/subprocessors.html
(periodically updated by Google in accordance with this Data Processing Addendum).
(…)

11.4
Opportunity to object to changes in the Sub-processor.
a. When a new Sub-processor is engaged during the Term, Google will notify the Client of the engagement (including the name and location of the corresponding Sub-processor and the activities it will perform) at least 30 days before the new Sub-processor begins processing any Personal Data of the Client.
b. The Client may, within 90 days of the notification of the engagement of a new Sub-processor, object by immediately terminating the Agreement for convenience by notifying Google.

The regulation to which one must adhere is indicated in Article 28.2 of the GDPR, which states:
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
51

                                                           Legal Department
2. The processor shall not engage another processor without the prior written authorization, specific or general, of the controller. In the latter case, the processor shall inform the controller of any planned changes concerning the incorporation or replacement of other processors, thus giving the controller the opportunity to object to such changes.

In this regard, the Guidelines 7/2020 indicate that:
128.
The agreement must specify that the processor may not engage another processor without the prior written authorization of the controller and whether this authorization will be specific or general. In the event that the authorization is general, the processor must inform the controller of any changes to the sub-processors covered by the written authorization and give the controller the opportunity to object to the change. It is recommended that the contract provide a procedure for this purpose.

The regulation of Annex II would be contrary to the GDPR for several reasons. The first is derived from what is indicated in Article 28.2 GDPR and in section 128 of the aforementioned Guidelines, where the term “prior” is essential. Indeed, the controller must grant authorization for subcontracting prior to its occurrence; however, in clause 11.4 it is inferred that Google first engages the sub-processor and subsequently communicates this to INTEF, giving at least 30 days' notice before the date on which the sub-processor begins its services. 

From there, the controller has 90 days to object (therefore, not to “authorize”), which means that the controller may end up objecting (for example, after 80 days), when the sub-processor has already begun providing services without the prior consent of the controller. This circumstance is contrary to the purpose sought by the GDPR, which is concretely manifested in the aspect that the controller has control over the processing carried out on its behalf, which is reflected, among other issues, in the choice of the sub-processor.

The second reason is that, in essence, there is no true possibility in the contract for the controller to object (or authorize), since if the controller expresses its refusal regarding the subcontracting, the only option left is to terminate the contract.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
52
Legal Office
The data processor cannot force the data controller to respond to a sub-processor that is not convenient for them by simply terminating the contract. This way of proceeding is also contrary to the control that the data controller must have regarding the processing carried out on their behalf. That is to say, they cannot freely decide to oppose a specific sub-processor.

XII
Regarding the possibility of applying non-European regulations to the processing of personal data derived from the agreement and its annexes, section 4.2 of the Data Processing Addendum states that:
4.2 Application of Non-European Regulation. The parties acknowledge that the Non-European Data Protection Regulation may also apply to the processing of personal data of Clients.
4.3 Application of the conditions. Except to the extent that this Data Processing Addendum provides otherwise, it shall apply regardless of whether the European Data Protection Regulation or the Non-European Data Protection Regulation applies to the processing of personal data of Clients.

These clauses must be rejected and not assumed by INTEF, as the interpretation of these clauses is prone to confusion. It is evident that the territorial scope of the GDPR (Art. 3 GDPR) cannot be modified at the will of the parties. The GDPR is a regulation that does not allow for disposition or non-application in this context, but is mandatory. Therefore, if this clause refers to the non-application of the GDPR when the applicable regulation must be the GDPR, it is unacceptable as it is not possible.

That said, clause 4.2 can be interpreted to mean that INTEF assumes that "there may" be processing for which the GDPR does not apply (for example, in the case of international data transfers when there is no adequacy decision), but that clause does not specify what those cases are; it only states the "possibility of this occurring," without knowing exactly what it refers to. In any case, considering the services provided, which are provided by a data controller that is part of the general administration of a Member State of the EU, and the recipients of the same, who are the educational community of the Autonomous Cities of Ceuta and Melilla, that clause would not be acceptable due to its ambiguity and its contradiction to the interests of the controller.

In conclusion, the recommendation of this Legal Office is the elimination of such clauses because, far from adding value to the regulation, they are unnecessary, ambiguous, vague, and materially contrary to the GDPR if they refer to the territorial application of the GDPR.

XIII
Another aspect raised by the inquirer is the management of security breaches (in terms of the agreement and annexes, "security incidents"), and that, according to them, there is no commitment from Google to notify the data controller of the incident within 72 hours.

In section 7.2 of the Data Protection Addendum, the following is stated:
7.2
Data incidents.
7.2.1. Notification of incidents. Google will notify the Client as soon as possible and without undue delay once it becomes aware of a Data Incident, and will take reasonable measures promptly to minimize the damage and protect the Client's personal data.

The obligations regarding "data breaches" are assumed directly by the data controller, as derived from Article 33.1 of the GDPR, which states:
1. In the event of a personal data security breach, the data controller shall notify the competent supervisory authority in accordance with Article 55 without undue delay and, where feasible, no later than 72 hours after becoming aware of it, unless it is unlikely that such a breach will result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
Legal Office
the security poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. If notification to the supervisory authority does not occur within 72 hours, it must be accompanied by an indication of the reasons for the delay.
Now, regarding the processor, paragraph 2 states that:
2.  The processor shall notify the controller without undue delay of any personal data security breaches of which it becomes aware.
That is to say, no specific deadline is established, but it is stated without undue delay. However, the management of security breaches or, rather, the intervention in the management of security breaches by the processor is one of the elements that constitute the minimum content of the contract or legal act that regulates the relationship between the controller and the processor.
Article 28.3 f) of the GDPR states:
(…)  Such contract or legal act shall stipulate, in particular, that the processor:
f)  shall assist the controller in ensuring compliance with the obligations laid down in Articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the processing and the information available to the processor;
That is to say, since the processor's involvement in data breaches is a matter subject to regulation in the contract or legal act that governs this controller-processor relationship, and furthermore, Article 33.2 of the GDPR establishes the obligation to notify the controller, and that the controller must notify the breach no later than 72 hours, given that the processor must assist the controller in ensuring compliance with its obligations in this regard, the processor must also notify the controller of the breach in such a way that the controller can in turn notify it within 72 hours; therefore, the processor must be obliged to communicate this circumstance to the controller in any case before 72 hours. If this were not the case, the processor would not be ensuring the controller's compliance with its obligations.
For this reason, it is recommended that, at the discretion of the data controller, a maximum notification period be established by the processor, allowing it to comply with the 72-hour deadline that, in general terms, is imposed by Article 33.1 of the GDPR.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
55

                                                           Legal Office
In conclusion, it should be noted that although it is not mandatory under the GDPR for the processor to notify the controller of security incidents within a specific timeframe, and to the extent that it is a matter subject to negotiation and minimum content under Article 28.3 f) of the GDPR, as a recommended practice, it is deemed appropriate to specify a term that allows the controller to fulfill its obligations, which ultimately would result in the proper management of security breaches.
XIV
Finally, it is necessary to address the adequacy to the principle of proportionality of the consequences that the implementation of data processing carried out by the Google Workspace platform would have on the personal data of the recipients of the aforementioned Google toolset.
The applicant in this regard argues that such processing would not pass the proportionality test as the implementation of this platform is not necessary—for various reasons—to meet the educational objectives related to the acquisition of digital skills and based on the harms that such processing may cause when related to the risks assumed with such processing.
Well, the analysis must begin by considering what is indicated in Recital 4 of the GDPR, which recognizes that:
the right to data protection is not an absolute right, but must be considered in relation to its function in society and maintain a balance with other fundamental rights, according to the principle of proportionality.
In this case, the acquisition of digital skills by members of the educational community is part of the fundamental right to education provided for in Article 27 of the Spanish Constitution, as deduced from Articles 2.1 l) and 11 bis of the LOE and Article 83 of the LOPDGDD, all of which are partially transcribed at the beginning of this report.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
56
Legal Office
Therefore, and without prejudice to the fact that, as previously mentioned, the Google Workspace solution also serves the purposes of the data processor, it is appropriate to analyze to what extent it fulfills the objectives of the right to education as described and whether its interference with the right to the protection of personal data is proportional.

The principle of proportionality, established in the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, serves to determine whether the interference with a fundamental right is lawful in relation to the preservation of other rights or legal goods or in the application of other norms when we are faced with a conflict between two or more options provided by the legal system in its application to a specific case.

The Judgment of the Constitutional Court 14/2003, of January 28, recalls the following:
“In other words, in accordance with a reiterated doctrine of this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure of fundamental rights is determined by the strict observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes that matter here, it is sufficient to recall that, to verify whether a restrictive measure of a fundamental right passes the proportionality test, it is necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three requirements or conditions: whether the measure is capable of achieving the proposed objective (suitability test); whether it is also necessary, in the sense that there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such purpose with equal effectiveness (necessity test); and, finally, whether it is balanced or proportionate, as it derives more benefits or advantages for the general interest than harms to other conflicting goods or values (strict proportionality test; SSTC 66/1995, of May 8, F. 5; 55/1996, of March 28, FF. 7, 8, and 9; 270/1996, of December 16, F. 4.e; 37/1998, of February 17, F. 8; 186/2000, of July 10, F. 6).”

Starting with the first element to consider, namely, suitability, which consists of the causal relationship, from means to end, between the adopted means and the proposed end. Therefore, it is an analysis of a means-end relationship.

For the case cited in the consultation, and without prejudice to the analysis that must be carried out by the data controller, it could be stated as an example that the use of digital platforms by the educational community may be appropriate to achieve the objective of acquiring digital skills and competencies in ICT environments.

However, in the specific case of the package of tools offered by Google Workspace, it must be taken into account how the so-called core services and additional services relate in terms of effectiveness. In the sense that to optimize the use of Google Workspace, some of the additional services are shown to be essential—for example, video viewing—and are not included in the contractual framework, but in addition to requiring an additional “contracting,” as we have seen, they imply a greater interference with the privacy of students. This does not mean that it is mandatory to use the additional services; rather, they are presented as voluntary or additional, but to achieve the full effectiveness of Google Workspace, their use is needed. Therefore, regarding suitability, it can be stated that the technological solution may fulfill the purpose, but with the nuances just indicated.

Regarding necessity, this will consist of examining whether there are other alternative means to the chosen one that are not burdensome or at least less burdensome. This involves analyzing a means-means relationship, that is, a comparison between means; the chosen one and the hypothetical ones that could have been adopted to achieve the same end.

In this case, it is appropriate to bring to mind what the consultant indicated: According to the resolution of the Secretary of State for Education, which establishes the rules, protocols, and conditions for the use of technological equipment and cloud service platforms in public non-university educational centers funded with public funds in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla.

“… all public non-university educational centers in both cities have been equipped with structured cabling networks, with data points in each of the classrooms and educational spaces of the centers, high-density wireless networks, communication networks with connection to RedIris for the provision of Internet, secure content navigation systems, classroom workstations, and portable devices and tablets for use interchangeably inside and outside school premises.”
Legal Office
Simultaneously, and through the objectives of the National Institute of Educational Technologies and Teacher Training (INTEF), schools have been provided with the availability of content publishing platforms (CMS), distance learning platforms (LMS), and open educational resources focused on different subjects and curricular areas (REA), as well as training pathways to support these areas. All of this constitutes the so-called Digital Educational System (SED) that is available to each and every educational center. 
It also provides educational management environments (Alborán), management of technological inventories and incidents (GLPI), and systems to promote reading and manage school libraries through ABIES. 
Institutional programs such as Structured Cabling Networks in public educational centers, School 2.0, Digital Culture, Connected Schools, and now Educa en Digital have provided educational centers within the competence of the MEFP with the necessary resources for the digitalization of education. 
This argument is shared by this Legal Office as it is the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training itself that knows the availability of resources and therefore is in the best position to understand the degree of necessity for the implementation of this solution. 
In this regard, it is essential to highlight that there are other technological solutions aimed at the educational community, aside from Google Workspace, that have been implemented in other territorial areas, and that, along with what has been indicated by the consultant, make the Google solution not perceived as "unique and necessary."
Finally, proportionality in the strict sense or weighting involves comparing the degree of realization or optimization of the objective and the intensity of the intervention in the right. In this case, it should be assessed whether there are more advantages or benefits for the general interest than disadvantages for the users. Here, it is essential to know the possible harms that the use of Google Workspace could have for minors, taking into account, among other issues, the risks that would be assumed with the implementation.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
59

                                                           Legal Office
What is particularly clarifying and serves as a parameter to consider when assessing the possible harms arising from the risks to be assumed is what is stated in Article 28.2 of the LOPDGDD when it identifies the risks that must be taken into account when applying the measures referred to in Articles 24 and 32 of the GDPR, which are as follows:
a) When the processing could generate situations of discrimination, identity theft or fraud, financial losses, damage to reputation, loss of confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization, or any other significant economic, moral, or social harm to the affected parties.
b) When the processing could deprive the affected parties of their rights and freedoms or could prevent them from exercising control over their personal data.
c) When the processing involves non-merely incidental or accessory processing of special categories of data referred to in Articles 9 and 10 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Articles 9 and 10 of this organic law or data related to the commission of administrative offenses.
d) When the processing involves an evaluation of personal aspects of the affected parties in order to create or use personal profiles of them, particularly through the analysis or prediction of aspects related to their performance at work, their economic situation, their health, their personal preferences or interests, their reliability or behavior, their financial solvency, their location, or their movements.
e) When the processing is carried out on data of groups of affected parties in a situation of special vulnerability, particularly minors and persons with disabilities.
f) When massive processing occurs involving a large number of affected parties or entails the collection of a large amount of personal data.
g) When the personal data are to be transferred, on a regular basis, to third countries or organizations.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
60
Legal Office
internationally regarding which an adequate level of protection has not been declared.
Indeed, in the present case, all the elements cited in the provision take on special importance as we are dealing with the processing of data on a digital platform where the main users (aside from the teaching staff) are minors. (and, per se, they are a particularly vulnerable group)
And due to the characteristics of the services offered, both the ordinary and those referred to as additional, they allow for a scenario of interaction and communication, in some cases similar to social networks and in others, like the YouTube platform, which is itself a social network.
Let us not forget that students would be identified through a user account, which would be the one they interact with across the various services, whether among students, with the teaching staff, or with external users to the organization—being able to express their preferences for content through the replication of content, through “likes,” or through the inclusion of comments regarding the same, in which free text is allowed and can be shared by third parties. Considering these possibilities, information about psychological behaviors, such as eating disorders, sociability issues, cultural and educational behaviors, etc., of those minors could be subjected to processing.
This is evident from the services offered by the technological solution, both ordinary and additional, which have been analyzed above.
Therefore, the risks for minors regarding the generation of situations of discrimination, damage to reputation, and loss of confidentiality are evident.
Also, as the consultant rightly warns, we could be facing the processing of special categories of data, as health data or religious beliefs could be inferred from interactions with the platform and the various services. And this information could be transferred to third countries that do not provide an adequate level of protection.
Additionally, there is the profiling that would inevitably occur regarding, for example, academic performance, preferences or interests, or even their geolocation.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
61

                                                           Legal Office
Furthermore, to assess the interference in the right to data protection, the volume of data collected and its typology is an essential parameter.
According to the information provided by Google itself, the following could be collected:

the user's name, email address, and password.

the secondary email address, phone number, and address of a user.

an additional phone number and a profile picture.

The emails that are written and received while using Gmail or documents that are drafted and stored in Drive.

The activity while using the main services, which includes things like viewing and interacting with content, people with whom they communicate or share content, and other details about their use of the services.

The settings, applications, browsers, and devices: 
This information includes the type of device and browser, the settings configuration, unique identifiers, the operating system, mobile network information, and the application version number. 
Information about the interaction of applications, browsers, and devices with their services, including the IP address, crash reports, system activity, and the date and time of the request.

Location information determined by various technologies, such as the IP address and GPS, sensor data from the device, and information about things nearby the device, such as Wi-Fi access points, cell towers, and Bluetooth-enabled devices.

The activity while using additional services: 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
62
Legal Office
the terms you seek, the videos you watch, the content and
the ads you see and interact with, voice and audio information when using audio features, purchase activity, and activity on third-party sites and applications that use the services.
There is no doubt that we are facing an invasive collection of personal information simply to receive part of the education through a digital environment and acquire digital skills. 
The principle of data minimization as stated in Article 5.1 of the GDPR would not be respected, neither in quantitative nor qualitative terms, and it is also not observed that given the amount of data collected and the manner in which it is done, the provisions of Article 25 of the GDPR regarding data protection by design and by default have been taken into account.
And all of this is indicated in an environment of mass data collection that involves a large number of affected individuals. Let us remember in this regard that the technological solution is intended to be implemented in those territories where the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training has not transferred its competencies to the Autonomous Communities, that is, in the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, and that according to the 2022 Report on the State of the Educational System of the State School Council, during the 2020-2021 school year there were 22,497 and 23,123 students enrolled, respectively. These figures serve to approximate the magnitude of the recipients to whom Google's technological solution would be directed and therefore the multiplication of the risk or harmful situations just indicated.
In light of the above reasoning, and any that the consultant may provide, it is the responsibility of the data controller to draw the consequences according to their own analysis of the impact of such processing on the principle of proportionality. 
XV
7 https://www.educacionyfp.gob.es/dam/jcr:a53b231c-bae6-41c2-b965-3b86a39b29b7/i22cee09-ceuta-melilla.pdf 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
63

                                                           Legal Office
In conclusion, the signing of the Agreement and Annexes proposed by the consultant is unfavorably reported for the reasons that have been made evident throughout this report.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
64