1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00121/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: MUNICIPAL POLICE OF ***LOCALITY.1 (*hereinafter, the claimant)
On March 5, 2020, he filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection. The claim is directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are installation of
video-surveillance camera in the establishment without the informative poster conforming to
current legislation.

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence that proves that the cartel did not

indicates the data controller (Annex I).

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

THIRD: On June 16, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: When the database of this organization was consulted on 07/13/20, no
received any allegation in relation to the facts object of the complaint.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On March 5, 2020, he filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, the Local Police (***LOCATION.1).
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

The reasons on which the claim is based are the installation of a video camera-
Surveillance in the establishment without the informative poster complying with the law
valid.

Second. It is identified as the main responsible A.A.A.

Third. It is proven that the defendant has a camera system in
the establishment it runs, which does not have an informative sign in a visible area.

It is confirmed by the documentary evidence provided (photographs No. 1 and

two).

Fourth. The respondent does not have an informative form(s) available to the
customers who may require it.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 03/05/20 is analyzed by me-
gave from which the following is transferred:

“Installation of a video-surveillance camera without the informative poster adjusting

to current legislation” (folio No. 1).

Article 22 section 4 of the LOPDGG provides the following:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative site a connection code or internet address to this information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation”.

This badge will be displayed in a visible place, and at least, at the entrances to the
monitored areas whether indoors or outdoors. In the event that the video-monitored space
has several entrances, it must have said video surveillance zone badge.
gives in each of them.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

Likewise, the rest of the information will also be made available to interested parties.
training that must be provided to those affected in compliance with the right to information
mation regulated in the RGPD.

Article 13 RGPD provides that when the data is obtained from the interested party,
You must be informed by the person in charge, as well as in your case of the purpose of the treatment,
complying with this obligation with the express mention on the informative poster placed
than in your establishment.

You must also have form(s) available to customers who may
should require it, having to show it to the State Security Forces and Corps.
do in case of inspection of the establishment.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has an establishment,
provided with video-surveillance cameras, without the information poster being approved
to the regulations in force, indicating the person responsible for processing the data.

Article 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following:
“The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
of authority and in which, observing the corresponding legal requirements,
take the facts verified by those will prove them unless it is accredited
the opposite."

The acting force confirms the presence of the devices, as well as provides
documentary evidence (photographs No. 1-2) that prove the absence of information in the
signs installed in the establishment that runs.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the claimant.

mado, for violation of article 13 RGPD.

IV

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than a sanction.
tion by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must, however, lend
special attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its character
intentional, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree
liability or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the authority
control authority has become aware of the infraction, compliance with measures
measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, adherence to codes of con-
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

The party denounced must prove that the system complies with the law.
in force (vgr. placement of a sign indicating the person responsible for the treatment) or in its
case, proceed to remove it from its current location, providing evidence
documentation for this purpose in both cases, indicating the current number of procedures
lie (PS/00121/2020).

In the event of a new complaint for the same "facts", it is brought to the attention of
of the defendant who may be affected by the opening of a new procedure
that could end with the imposition of a pecuniary fine.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of Article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a sanction of Warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the accused party A.A.A. and
REPORT the result of the actions to the MUNICIPAL POLICE OF
***LOCATION.1

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

