Deliberation 2020-057 of May 28, 2020 National Commission for Computing and Liberties Nature of the deliberation: Internal regulations Legal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Wednesday June 03, 2020 NOR: CNIL2013383 Deliberation No. 2020-057 of May 28, 2020 amending the rules of procedure of the National Commission for Computing and LibertiesThe National Commission for Computing and Liberties,
Considering the law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 modified relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its article 12;
Having regard to law n° 2017-55 of January 20, 2017 as amended on the general status of independent administrative authorities and independent public authorities, in particular its articles 8-1 and 14;
Having regard to decree n° 2019-536 of May 29, 2019 as amended, taken for the application of law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and freedoms;
Having regard to Decree No. 2020-173 of February 27, 2020 relating to the methods of remuneration of members of independent administrative authorities and independent public authorities, in particular its article 6;
Having regard to the decree of February 27, 2020 taken pursuant to decree n° 2020-173 of February 27, 2020 relating to the methods of remuneration of the members of the independent administrative authorities and the independent public authorities, in particular its articles 4 to 6;
Having regard to deliberation no. 2013-175 of July 4, 2013 adopting the internal regulations of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties;
After having heard Mrs. Marie-Laure DENIS, President, in her report, and Mrs. Nacima BELKACEM, Government Commissioner, in her observations,
Resolves: Article 1 Find out more about this article... After chapter XII of the appendix to deliberation no. 2013-175 of July 4, 2013 referred to above, a chapter XIII is added as follows: Chapter XIII
Modalities of remuneration of the members of the commissionArticle 78
Principles Without prejudice to the lump sum indemnities, provided for by decree no. 2020-173 of February 27, 2020 and the decree of February 27, 2020 taken for its application, which are allocated to certain members of the commission by reason of their functions, indemnities to the vacation may be paid to the members of the commission, with the exception of its chairman and the deputies and senators appointed in this capacity, under the conditions set out in articles 79 to 85 of these rules of procedure. Article 79
Sessional allowances allocated for participation in committee meetings The amount of allowances allocated to committee members is set at 250 euros per effective attendance at any session of the plenary and restricted committee sessions.
The maximum number of sessions compensated per member in this respect is respectively set at fifty per calendar year for participation in plenary sessions and at twenty-five per calendar year for participation in restricted sessions. Article 80
Vacation allowances allocated for presiding over meetings of the Restricted Committee formation, of a session of the committee's restricted formation. This indemnity cannot be combined with that mentioned in the previous article.
The maximum number of sessions compensated in this respect is set at twelve per calendar year. Article 81
Vacation allowances allocated for the presentation of cases before the commission The unit amount of vacations allocated to members of the committee for the preparation and presentation of cases before the committee is set at 25 euros.
The fact of preparing and reporting to the plenary formation of the commission a deliberation that does not present any particular technical or legal difficulty, within the meaning of article 17 of these rules of procedure, corresponds to two shifts (50 euros). The maximum number of files compensated per member in this respect is set at seventy per calendar year.
The fact of preparing and presenting orally a deliberation or a dossier that is the subject of a written report to the plenary or restricted formation of the committee corresponds to fifteen shifts (375 euros). In the event of particular complexity, this rate is increased to twenty-three shifts (575 euros). The maximum number of deliberations or files giving rise to the payment of these indemnities, per member and for a calendar year, is set at forty. Article 82
Vacation allowances allocated for investigations carried out within the framework of the exercise of the rights of persons with the commissionThe amount of allowances allocated to members of the commission for investigations outside the premises of the commission, within the framework of the he exercise of the rights of individuals before the commission is set at 250 euros per half-day of investigation.
The maximum number of half-days compensated per member in this respect is set at thirty per calendar year. Article 83
Vacation allowances allocated for travel abroad at 250 euros per half-day.
Effective remote participation in this work gives rise to the payment of the same compensation when it is comparable to a committee meeting.
The maximum number of vacations compensated per member in this respect is set at one hundred per calendar year. Article 84
Vacation allowances allocated for participation in the work of an administrative body or body The amount of allowances allocated to members of the commission for their participation in the work of an administrative body or body is set 250 euros per actual working session, provided that the participation of the member of the committee concerned results from the law or from a regulatory act published in the Official Journal and that it is not the subject of compensation paid by the administrative authority or body concerned.
The maximum number of vacations compensated per member in this respect is set at fifteen per calendar year. Article 85
Vacation allowances allocated for other activities and interventions 100 euros per session.
The maximum number of work sessions compensated per member in this respect is set at sixty per calendar year. Article 2 The President and the Secretary General of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties are responsible, each as far as he is concerned, for the execution of this decision, which will be published in the Official Journal of the French Republic.
The president,
M. L. Denis