Reprimand - final 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

To: Nottinghamshire County Council 

REPRIMAND 

Of: County Hall, Loughborough Road, West Bridgford, Nottingham, 
NG2 7QP 

Introduction 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Nottinghamshire County Council in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the 
UK General Data Protection Regulation in respect of certain infringements 
of the UK GDPR. 

Infringements of the UK GDPR 

The  Commissioner  has  decided  to  issue  a  reprimand  to  Nottinghamshire 
County Council in respect of an infringement of the following Article of the 
UK GDPR 

• Article 32(1) of the UK GDPR which states:

“Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation
and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as
the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms
of natural persons, the controller and the processor shall implement
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level
of security appropriate to the risk, including inter alia as appropriate:

a) the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data;

b) the  ability  to  ensure  the  ongoing  confidentiality,  integrity,
availability and resilience of processing systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in
a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a  process  for  regularly  testing,  assessing  and  evaluating  the
effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring
the security of the processing. that personal data shall be “processed
lawfully, fairly and  in a transparent manner in relation  to the data
subject (lawfulness, fairness and transparency)”

1 

The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below. 

The Council Assessment Service (CAS) is a service within Nottinghamshire 
County Council. The CAS is responsible for, among other things, preparing 
Child and Family Assessments (CFA) which assess the needs of vulnerable 
children in situations where there are concerns about the capacity of his 
or her parents or care givers to meet those needs. CFAs are prepared by 
social workers. 
 
The data subjects are, therefore, users of social services and the children 
of those service users. Due to the nature of the assessments being carried 
out, the personal data processed is regularly of a highly sensitive nature, 
that  will  have  an  impact  on  the  interests  and  freedoms  of  the  data 
subject. 
 
In this case, a social care team in the CAS completed a CFA related to the 
wellbeing of two children in a household in Nottinghamshire. 

A social worker sent copies of the assessment report to the mother and her 
two  ex-partners:  each  the  father  of  one  of  the  two  children.  The  report 
contained sensitive personal data which should have been redacted from 
the copies sent to the partners. 

For  the  following  reasons,  the  Commissioner  takes  the  view  that 
Nottinghamshire  County  Council  had  not  implemented  appropriate 
organisational measures to ensure the security of the personal data in this 
case. This is an infringement of Article 32(1). 

Infringement Details 

Lack of robust procedures 

Although the initial failure to redact sensitive information from the CFA was 
described as an oversight or human error, there was a procedure in place 
that  required  all  CFAs  to  be  signed  off  by  a  team  manager  prior  to 
dissemination. 

In this case, regardless of the initial error on the part of the social worker, 
a  report  with  a  significant  lack  of  redaction  was  signed  off  by  a  team 
manager and distributed to all the relevant parties. 

The procedure that was in place was not sufficiently robust as to stop this 
from happening. The investigation identified the root cause of this failure 
as a lack of training and clear policies regarding the redaction of sensitive 
documents, which would have made the procedure more robust. 

2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lack of training and guidance on redaction 

Nottinghamshire  County  Council  confirmed  that  detailed  guidance  on 
carrying out effective disclosure and redaction was not provided or made 
available to staff until April 2022, which was subsequent to the incident. 

Prior  to  this,  the  only  reference  to  redaction  in  training  materials  was  a 
short, generic and high level reference to redaction within a document that 
provided new starters with basic data protection training. 

Given the potential risk of damage and/or distress that would result from 
an  accidental  disclosure  in  this  work,  the  Commissioner  would  expect 
extensive  guidance  and  training  to  have  already  been  in  place,  which 
covered the relevant processes that were central to the role of producing 
CFAs. 

Previous incidents 

Nottinghamshire County Council confirmed that, in the two years previous 
to the incident, there had been another 16 separate incidents where failure 
to  adequately  redact  resulted  in  sensitive  personal  data  being  disclosed, 
with a number of these incidents resulting in safeguarding concerns. 

Severity of breach 

The  breach  in  this  instance  was  serious.  It  put  the  mother  and  the  two 
children at risk of actual physical harm. The material that was disclosed to 
the third-party was in relation to previous domestic violence that the third- 
party  had  enacted  on  the  mother  and  the  two  children.  This  disclosure 
created a volatile and dangerous situation between the parties. 

Mitigating  Factors  /  Remedial  steps  taken  by  Nottinghamshire 
County Council 

The Commissioner has considered and welcomes the remedial steps taken 
by Nottinghamshire County Council in the light of this incident. In particular 
Nottinghamshire County Council has, in April 2022, put in place detailed 
and  comprehensive  guidance  in  relation  to  the  redaction  of  documents 
(Disclosure and Redaction Guidance), and a copy of this procedure has been 
provided to the Commissioner. 

3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Reprimand 

Taking  into  account  all  the  circumstances  of  this  case  (including  the 
remedial  steps),  the  Commissioner  has  decided  to  issue  a  reprimand  to 
Nottinghamshire County Council in relation to the infringements of Article 
32(1) of the UK GDPR set out above. 

11 August 2023 

Mark Palmer – Investigation Officer 

4 

 

 

 

 

