1/9

936-031219

 Procedure No.: PS/00433/2019

RESOLUTION R/00115/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00433/2019, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to CHENMING YE (BAZAR REAL), given the complaint
presented by D. G. OF THE CIVIL GUARD - ***POSITION.1, and based on the
following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 7, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against CHENMING YE
(BAZAR REAL) (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00433/2019

935-240719

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D. G. OF THE CIVIL GUARD - *** POSITION 1 (hereinafter, the claimant)
On October 24, 2019, he filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection. The claim is directed against CHENMING YE (ROYAL BAZAR)
with NIF X6922692Z (hereinafter, the claimed).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

 The reasons on which the claim is based are "it does not have the mandatory poster
informative placed in a visible area, informing of the data controller” (folio
No. 1).

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 10/24/19 by
by means of which the following is transferred to this Agency:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

"does not have the mandatory information poster placed in a visible area,

informing the person responsible for the treatment” (folio nº 1).

The facts are specified therefore, that the denounced establishment, despite
to have a video-surveillance camera installed, it does not have an information poster
informing of the end of the treatment and the person responsible for it.

The behavior described is subsumable in the infraction described in art. 12
RGPD, since the person in charge has not adopted the necessary measures to inform
to the clients of the establishment of the processing of their personal data and of the
way in your case to exercise the legally recognized rights.

Article 22 section 4 of LO 3/2018, December 5, provides the following:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation”.

The facts are the object of transfer by the Forces and Bodies of
State Security (General Civil Guard Directorate-*** POSITION.1) that carry out a
inspection at the Bazar Real establishment, located at Avenida de Extremadura nº 87
(Talavera La Real).

The art. 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 provides the following: “The documents
formalized by officials who are recognized as authorities and in
which, observing the corresponding legal requirements, collect the facts
verified by those will prove them unless proven otherwise”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this
moment of agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what
result of the investigation, it is considered that the person claimed has a system of
video-surveillance, which does not comply with current legislation.

The known facts could constitute an infraction, attributable to the
claimed, for violation of the content of art. 12 RGPD, as there is no sign
informative in a visible area in the establishment.

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22 (…)”.

When motivating the sanction, it is taken into account that it is a small
establishment, without experience in the field of data protection, as well as the level
low income of the same, being a small commercial bazaar.

-Negligence in the conduct described is taken into account, given the time
elapsed since the entry into force of the new regulations, as well as the extensive
diffusion that it has had (art. 83.2 b) RGPD).

-The fact of having knowledge through a complaint made by the

State Security Forces and Bodies (art. 83.2 h) RGPD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

For all these reasons, it is proposed, taking into account the above, an initial sanction
encrypted in the amount of €900, a sanction located on the lowest scale for this type of
infractions.

The defendant must prove by means of a photograph that he has placed a poster
approved in a visible area (eg establishment entrance) indicating the purposes of the
treatment (vgr. Video-surveillance) and the person in charge (by way of example, You can
exercise their rights in Bazar Real), having a form available
of clients (vgr you can download it from the website of this Agency www.
Aepd.es Video-surveillance Section).

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against CHENMING YE (BAZAR
REAL), with NIF X6922692Z, for the alleged infringement of article 12 RGPD, by not
have an informative poster, infraction typified in art. 83.5 b) RGPD, being
punishable in accordance with art. 58.2 GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and, as secretary, to S.S.S. ,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection during the
investigation phase, all of them part of the administrative file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be €900 (Nine hundred Euros) without prejudice to
whatever results from the instruction.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this agreement to CHENMING YE (BAZAR REAL), with
NIF X6922692Z, granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate. In its
Allegation brief must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears
at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the
Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event of
that the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within
of the term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at €720, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at €720 and its payment will imply the termination
of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at €540 (€900-€180
+180€).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
indicated amounts €720 or €540, you must make it effective by entering the
account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the
reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On January 28, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 540 euros making use of the two reductions provided for in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00433/2019, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CHENMING YE (BAZAR REAL).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

