 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  14/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Ireland  regarding  the  approval  of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

Adopted 

Adopted on 25 May 2020 

 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 4 

2.1 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ................................ 4 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

PREFIX (Section 0 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements) ................................ 6 

2.2.2 

TERMS AND DEFINITIONS ................................................................................................ 6 

2.2.3 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 6 

2.2.4 
GENERAL  REQUIREMENTS  FOR  ACCREDITATION  (Section  4  of  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements) ................................................................................................................................. 7 

2.2.5 

STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS (Section 5 of the draft accreditation requirements) ...... 7 

2.2.6 

RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS (Section 6 of the draft accreditation requirements) .......... 7 

2.2.7 

PROCESS REQUIREMENTS (Section 7 of the draft accreditation requirements)............. 7 

Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................... 8 

Final Remarks .................................................................................................................................. 8 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1)  The  main  role  of  the  Board  is  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  Regulation  2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to draft 
their  requirements  for  accreditation  following  the  structure  set  out  in  the  Annex  1  to  the  EDPB 
Guidelines 4/2018 on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a 
template provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and 
the EDPB guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

(2) With reference to Article 43 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt accreditation 
requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow generation of 
trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism,  this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority,  the  supervisory  authority  should  establish  accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 

 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted 

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2) GDPR. In comparison to the obligations relating 
to the accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 GDPR provides 
fewer details about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the 
accreditation itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the 
accreditation requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and 
should be complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant 
to  Article  43(1)(b)  GDPR.  The  EDPB  notes  that  Article  43(2)(a)-(e)  GDPR  reflect  and  specify 
requirements of ISO 17065 which will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision  of  the  Chair,  this  period  may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

The  Irish  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  “IE  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 13 February 2020. 
The IE national accreditation body (INAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify 
using  GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  INAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional 
requirements set up by the IE SA, once they are approved by the IE SA, following an opinion from the 
Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies. 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 

3. 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the IE SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 
issuing accreditation.  

 

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, par. 39. Available at: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en    

4 

Adopted 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

This assessment of IE SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore it  will not make reference to the text of  the related document in this Opinion. As a 
result,  the  Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the IE SA’s 
draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and not 
asking the IE SA to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the IE SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

1)  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

2)  independence of the certification body 

3)  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

4)  expertise of the certification body 

5)  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

6)  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

7)  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

5 

Adopted 

 
Taking into account that: 

10. 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board  shall  issue  an  opinion  where  a  supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  PREFIX (Section 0 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements) 

11. 

The Board acknowledges the fact that  terms of cooperation regulating the relationship  between a 
National Accreditation Body and its data protection supervisory authority are not a requirement for 
the  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  per  se.  However,  for  reasons  of  completeness  and 
transparency,  the  Board  considers  that  such  terms  of  cooperation,  where  existing,  shall  be  made 
public in a format considered appropriate by the SA.  

2.2.2  TERMS AND DEFINITIONS 

12. 

The Board notes that the reference to the guidelines on accreditation as “WP 261” is not updated. The 
EDPB adopted the Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of 
the  General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679).  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  IE  SA  to 
amend the wording and refer to the Guidelines 4/2018.  

2.2.3  GENERAL REMARKS 

13. 

The Board notes that the IE SA’s draft requirements refer repeatedly to the “competent supervisory 
authority”. Since the competent SA in this case is the IE SA, the Board encourages the IE SA to replace 
the reference by “the DPC” or “the IE SA” in order to avoid confusion. 

14. 

The  Board  acknowledges  that  the  IE  SA’s  draft  requirements  include  a  section  on  terms  and 
definitions.  However,  some  of  the  terms  are  not  used  consistently  throughout  the  document  (e.g. 

6 

Adopted 

“object of evaluation” and “ToE”). In order to avoid confusion, the Board encourages the IE SA to use 
consistent terminology in the draft requirements.  

2.2.4  GENERAL  REQUIREMENTS  FOR  ACCREDITATION  (Section  4  of  the  draft accreditation 

requirements) 

15.  With regard to clause 7 of subsection 4.1.2 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board 
considers  that  the  wording  is  slightly  unclear  with  regard  to  whom  the  reasons  for  approving 
certification  are  provided.  Moreover,  the  reference  to  “facilitating”  the  register  is  also  unclear. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the IE SA to redraft it in a way that provides more clarity.  

2.2.5  STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS (Section 5 of the draft accreditation requirements) 

16. 

The  Board  observes  that  the  IE  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  make  reference  to  the 
appointment  of  “a  person  with  the  relevant  seniority  with  responsibility  for  overseeing  data 
protection compliance and information governance.” The reference to the relevant seniority should 
be clarified in terms of experience and the scope of authority. Moreover, the functions of this figure 
seem similar to those of a data protection officer. The Board encourages the IE SA to clearly set out 
the functions of this figure and to specify the relevant experience.   

2.2.6  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS (Section 6 of the draft accreditation requirements) 

17.  Concerning certification body personnel (subsection 6.1), the Board notes that the requirements for 
personnel with technical expertise responsible for making decisions include having at least 5 years of 
professional  experience  related  to  the  subject  matter  of  certification,  whereas  the  personnel 
responsible for evaluations should have at least2 years of professional experience. Similarly, personnel 
with legal expertise taking decisions must have at least 5 years of professional experience, whereas 
those in charge of evaluations must have  at least 2 years of experience. The Board notes  that the 
required  minimum  years  of  professional  experience  between  the  personnel  in  charge  of  decision-
making  and  the  personnel  in  charge  of  evaluation  differ  significantly.  In  this  regard,  the  Board 
considers  that  the  emphasis  should  be  put  on  the  different  type  of  expertise  rather  than  on  the 
number of years of professional experience. In the Board’s opinion, evaluators should have a more 
specialist expertise and professional experience in technical procedures (e.g. audits and certifications), 
whereas decision-makers should have a more general and comprehensive expertise and professional 
experience  in  data  protection.  Considering  this,  the  Board  encourages  the  IE  SA  to  make  more 
emphasis  on  the  different  substantive  knowledge  and/or  experience  for  evaluators  and  decision-
makers and to reduce the divergences in the years of experience required for them.  

2.2.7 PROCESS REQUIREMENTS (Section 7 of the draft accreditation requirements) 

18.  With regard to subsection 7.10 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements  (“Changes affecting 
certification”), the Board observes that there is no reference to the change procedures to be agreed, 
as  per  section  7.10  of  the  Annex.  The  Board  encourages  the  IE  SA  to  include  such  reference  and 
mention some of the procedures that could be put in place (e.g. transition periods, approvals process 
with the competent SA...). Additionally, the Board considers that changes in the state of art are also 
relevant  and  might  affect  certification.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  IE  SA  to  include  this 
possibility among the list of changes affecting certification. Finally, the Board welcomes the inclusion 
of  personal  data  breaches  and  infringements  of  the  GDPR  in  the  list  of  changes  that  can  affect 

7 

Adopted 

certification. However, in order to ensure clarity, the Board encourages the IE SA to specify that the 
data breaches or infringements of the GDPR shall be taken into account only inasmuch as they relate 
to the certification. 

19.  Regarding the changes affecting certification (subsection 7.10 of the IE SA’s draft requirements) and, 
in  particular,  the  fifth  bullet  point,  the  Board  notes  that  the  IE  SA  refers  to  “applicable  binding 
decisions  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board”  and  also  to  Article  39  of  the  EDPB  Rules  of 
Procedure,  which  includes  “all  final  documents  adopted  by  the  EDPB”.  In  order  to  ensure  a  clear 
understanding  of  what  is  meant  by  “decisions  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board”,  the  Board 
encourages the IE SA to clarify the reference. An example could be to refer to “documents adopted 
by the European Data Protection Board”.  

20. 

The Board observes that subsection 7.11 of the IE SA’s draft requirements (termination, restriction, 
suspension or withdrawal of certification) does not contain the obligation of the certification body to 
accept decisions and orders from the IE SA to withdraw or not to issue certification to an applicant if 
the requirements for certification are not or no longer met. Therefore, the Board recommends the IE 
SA to include such obligation.  

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

21. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Irish Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

22.  Regarding ‘process requirements’ the board recommends that the IE SA: 

1)  include, in subsection 7.11, the obligation of the certification body to accept decisions and 
orders  from  the  IE  SA  to  withdraw  or  not  to  issue  certification  to  an  applicant  if  the 
requirements for certification are not or no longer met.  

4  FINAL REMARKS 

23. 

This opinion is addressed to the IE SA and will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

24.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the IE SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within 
the  same  period,  it  shall  provide  the  amended  draft  list  or  where  it  does  not  intend  to  follow  the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

25. 

The IE SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

8 

