1/12

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00419/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 14, 2018 Mr. A.A.A., (hereinafter the
claimant), filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
exposing that the website ***URL.1 uses a contact form to collect
personal data of users without including any information about the aspects
contemplated in the current regulations on data protection, adding that said
form did not contain any link to the "Privacy Policy" of the website by
not have this document.

Likewise, the claimant indicates that since he lacks a "Legal Notice" in which
specify the mandatory data of the owner of the website cannot provide
information about it.
  
SECOND: On November 23, 2018, you have entered this Agency in writing
of the legal representative of the owner of the aforementioned website, notifying that, at the
view of information requested in relation to the claim filed by the
claimant, have proceeded to update the "Privacy Policy", "Cookies Policy"
and "Legal Notice" of the website, having also directed, dated November 21,
2018, an email to the claimant informing him that they had proceeded to
update the contents of your website.

On January 14, 2019, the aforementioned website is accessed,
confirming that you have the form called "My shopping basket: Data
shipping”, to be completed with the following information by users who wish to
acquire any of the products offered on the aforementioned website:
“BUYER DATA (To send you a confirmation of the purchase and put us
in contact if there is any incidence):" In this section it is required to fill in the
sections corresponding to: Name and surnames, Mobile phone and e-mail.
"SHIPMENT DATA (to send the order to the desired address):" In this section
it is required to complete the sections related to: To the attention of, Address,
City, Postal Code and State.

It is verified that the entity LIVING TERRITORIWEB, S.L., (hereinafter, the
claimed), owner of the website ***URL.1 and responsible for the treatment to be carried out with
the data collected through the outlined form, does not offer those interested in
the time of requesting said information and prior to its collection,
no layered information system or mechanism that allows them to link
directly with the information regarding the processing of your personal data
established in article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Data Protection (hereinafter RGPD), nor, where appropriate, to be able to express your
consent or rejection to the processing of your data depending on the purposes to
which responds to its use.

Regarding the information provided by the claimed person through the link of
"Privacy Policy" located at the bottom of each of the pages that make up the site
web, the lack of specification of the following extremes is observed:

Contact details of the Data Protection Delegate, where appropriate.
The purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined, since the
purpose of the treatment described "for the management and maintenance of some of the
our services” does not allow knowing the nature of said services.

The legitimacy on which the legality of data processing is based for each
one of the purposes to which it obeys, in accordance with the provisions of
Article 6 of the GDPR.

Regarding the information related to the exercise of rights, it must be eliminated

that of cancellation.

If consent is granted for a specific purpose (art. 6.1.a or
article 9.2.a) RGPD), you will be informed of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to withdrawal.

 The period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period.

The right to file a claim with the supervisory authority.
If the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement,
or a necessary requirement to sign a contract, you must be informed if the interested party
is obliged to provide personal data, as well as the possible consequences
not to provide such data.

On the other hand, the information referring to the use of cookies must be adapted
contained in the Privacy Policy document to downloaded devices,
since it is known that third-party analytical cookies from the Google service are used
Analytics.

THIRD: Consulted on January 14, 2019, the application that manages the
history of sanctions and previous warnings in terms of protection
of data, it is verified that the claimed party does not have previous records in terms of
Data Protection.

FOURTH: On March 14, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against LIVING
TERRITORIWEB, S.L., in accordance with the provisions of article 58 section 2 of the
cited RGPD, for the alleged infringement of article 13 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal information and the free circulation of these data, (hereinafter RGPD), typified in the
article 83.5.b) of the same, considering that the sanction that could correspond
it would be a WARNING, without prejudice to what resulted from the investigation.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned initiation agreement, dated March 21
of 2019, a written entry is registered in that Agency from the legal representative of the

3/12

claimed alleging, in short, that the policy of
privacy of the site to correct the irregularities described in order to comply with the
requirements established by the RGPD. For these purposes, it is alleged that the
contact form and a checkbox has been included in the form "where the
introduction of personal data, so that if the user does not expressly accept
your agreement with our data policy, you cannot continue with your purchase.”

SIXTH: For the purposes of verifying the changes alleged by the respondent, whose
realization has not sent any supporting documentation or means of proof, with
date April 1, 2019, the website ***URL.1 is accessed in order to check the
modifications introduced in the privacy policy of the portal and in the form
“My shopping basket: Shipping data”, acting on Proven Fact No. 3) of the
present act the result of the verification carried out, which is reproduced at
effects of avoiding its repetition.

SEVENTH: On April 2, 2019, a resolution proposal was formulated, in which
sense that, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency imposed on LIVING
TERRITORIWEB, S.L a sanction of WARNING for an infraction to the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD in its relationship with the provisions of sections 1
and 2 of article 11 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Protection
of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights, (hereinafter LOPDGDD),
typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

Likewise, it was proposed that if the respondent had not accredited the
rectification of the irregular situation prior to the issuance of the resolution of the
procedure, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection ordered the respondent to
adoption of the necessary measures to adapt the information offered to the
current data protection regulations, for which, within ONE MONTH to
counting from the day following the notification of the resolution of the procedure, said
The entity must: CERTIFY by means of any legally valid proof the
making the necessary modifications in the sections What personal data
we treat? and “Updates to our Privacy Policy” contained in the
document of "Privacy Policy" of the website ***URL.1 so that the information
contained therein fully responds to the provisions of article 13 of the
GDPR.

The proposed resolution was notified to the respondent on April 8,
2019, as stated in the delivery certificate issued by the State Post Office
and Telegraphs, S.A. active in the procedure, not stating that the claimed
exercise their right to make allegations within the period granted for such purposes
nor that he has provided any means of proof justifying the adoption of measures
tending to regularize the situation.

EIGHTH: In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection in this procedure are considered proven facts the
following,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

FACTS

First: On September 14, 2018, it is registered at the AEPD
claim made by the claimant communicating that through the form of
contact of the web page ***URL.1 personal data of the interested parties is collected
without providing them with the information established in the RGPD.

Second: In the access made on January 14, 2019 to the website http://
***URL.1 the following facts are checked:

2.1 That LIVING TERRITORIWEB, S.L. is the owner of the aforementioned portal.

2.2 That users who wish to acquire any of the products marketed
in the portal they have to fill in the form called “My shopping basket:
Shipping data”, in which the following personal data of the
interested:

“BUYER DATA (To send you a confirmation of the purchase and
contact us if there is any incident):” Section where it is required to provide:
Name and surnames, mobile phone and e-mail.

“SHIPMENT DATA (to send the order to the desired address):” Section
where it is required to provide the fields: To the attention of, Address, Population, Code
Postal and State.

In said form, the person in charge of the treatment did not provide the interested parties
whose data requested any mechanism or layered information system that
allowed access, at the time of obtaining the data and prior to
its collection, to the information indicated in article 13 of the RGPD and, where appropriate,
express your consent or rejection to the processing of your data based on your
purposes.

2.3 In the "Privacy Policy" of the website the lack of specification is observed

of the following extremes:

Contact details of the Data Protection Delegate, where appropriate.
The purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined
The legitimacy on which the legality of data processing is based for each
one of the purposes to which it obeys, in accordance with the provisions of
Article 6 of the GDPR.

Regarding the information related to the exercise of rights, it must be eliminated

that of cancellation.

If consent is granted for a specific purpose (art. 6.1.a or
article 9.2.a) RGPD), you will be informed of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to withdrawal.

 The period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period.

The right to file a claim with the supervisory authority
If the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement,
or a necessary requirement to sign a contract, you must be informed if the interested party

5/12

is obliged to provide personal data, as well as the possible consequences
not to provide such data.

On the other hand, the information referring to the use of cookies contained in the
Privacy Policy document must be adapted to the devices downloaded
(it is indicated that third-party analytical cookies are used from the Google service
Analytics.)

Third: In the access made on April 1, 2019 to the website http://
***URL.1 the following facts are checked:

3.1 At the bottom of the form "My shopping basket: Shipping data" the
following legend: “In order to continue processing your purchase we need you to
accept our privacy policy. You can consult it by clicking here.”, under the
which a blank box appears associated with the text "I accept the privacy policy."
(The underline is a link that leads to the “Privacy Policy” document of the
website).

3.2 It is verified that the "Privacy Policy" has been modified in order to
include the information that was not offered in the previous access dated January 14,
2019.

3.3 The inclusion in said document of the following is also confirmed

information:

In the section What personal data do we process? of said document
appears, along with other information that “In the event that you provide data from third parties,
You state that you have their consent and you agree to
transfer the information contained in this clause, exempting Free Catalonia from
any liability. “

In the section “Updates to our Privacy Policy” it is stated:
“This Policy may be updated periodically to reflect changes in our
personal information practices. We will post a prominent notice on the Site or
We will send you an email to notify you of any significant changes in
our Policy and we will indicate at the top of the Policy when it was updated
for the last time"

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that articles 55.1, 56.2 and 58.2. b) and d) of the RGPD
recognize each control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and
48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD establishes that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

III

Article 12 of the RGPD, referring to the “Transparency of information,
communication and modalities of exercising the rights of the interested party”, in its
Section 1 establishes the following:

"1. The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate
to the interested party all the information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language,
in particular any information directed specifically at a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.”

In the present case, the defendant is charged with the violation of the duty to
inform provided for in article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that regarding the
”Information that must be provided when personal data is obtained from the
interested.”, determines that:

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis

legal treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the

legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,

in your case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

7/12

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to
data portability;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of
not provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

In turn, both precepts are related to the provisions of the

Recitals 60 and 61 of the aforementioned RGPD, which establish:

“(60) The principles of fair and transparent treatment require that the
interested party of the existence of the treatment operation and its purposes. The responsible
of the treatment must provide the interested party with as much complementary information as is
necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing, taking into account the
specific circumstances and context in which the personal data is processed. I know
must also inform the interested party of the existence of profiling and
the consequences of such elaboration. If personal data is obtained from
interested parties, they must also be informed of whether they are obliged to provide them and of the
consequences if they don't. This information may be transmitted in
combination with standardized icons that offer, in an easily visible way,
intelligible and clearly legible, an adequate overview of the treatment
provided. Icons presented in electronic format must be legible
mechanically.

(61) Data subjects should be provided with information on the processing of
your personal data at the time it is obtained from them or, if obtained from
another source, within a reasonable time, depending on the circumstances of the case. If the
personal data can be legitimately communicated to another recipient, it must be
inform the interested party at the time they are communicated to the recipient for the first time
time. The data controller who plans to process the data for a purpose that is not
is the one for which they were collected must provide the interested party, before said
further processing, information about that other purpose and other necessary information.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

When the origin of the personal data cannot be provided to the interested party by
multiple sources have been used, general information should be provided.”

For its part, regarding the rights of “Transparency and information to the
affected”, article 11 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Protection
of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD),
establishes that:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person in charge
of the treatment may comply with the duty of information established in the
Article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 providing the affected party with basic information
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must be

contain at least:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, in his

case.

b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

3. When the personal data had not been obtained from the affected party, the
responsible may comply with the duty of information established in article
14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the aforementioned basic information
in the previous section, indicating an electronic address or other means that allows
easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

In these cases, the basic information will also include:
a) The categories of data subject to treatment.
b) The sources from which the data came.”

IV

In this case, through the access made on the 14th of
January 2019 to the website ***URL.1 it has been verified that through the form
called "My shopping basket: Shipping data" included in said portal, the
claimed collects personal data from users who complete the said
form to send them confirmation of the selected products in the basket of
purchase and contact these buyers if there is any
incident without providing them, at the time of collecting their personal data, all
the information required in terms of data protection established in article
13 of the RGPD, as can be deduced from the detail of the aspects on which it is not
reports totally or partially that it appears in Proven Fact No. 2.3 of this act.

9/12

On April 1, 2019, it is verified that the respondent has modified the
"Privacy Policy" in order to adapt the information contained therein to the
requirements established in article 13 of the RGPD, noting that although it has
including the aspects that were outlined in the initial agreement of this
procedure, however, incorrect information appears.

Thus, in the section What personal data do we process? of said document
states, among other information, that “In the event that you provide data from third parties,
You state that you have their consent and you agree to
transfer the information contained in this clause, exempting Free Catalonia from
any responsibility.”, when the obligation to prove the legality of the treatment
of the data falls on the person in charge of the treatment, not on the interested party.
that personal data of a third party is requested.

In turn, in the information contained in the section “Updates of
our Privacy Policy” the respondent indicates that “This Policy may
be updated periodically to reflect changes in our practices on the
personal information. We will post a prominent notice on the Site or send you a
email to notify you of any significant changes to our Policy and
We will indicate at the top of the Policy when it was last updated.
Keep in mind that, in accordance with the provisions of article 13.3 of the RGPD, if the change
is linked to the processing of personal data for a purpose other than that for which
that the data was collected, that information about another purpose must be provided to the
data subject prior to such further processing.

From which it can be deduced that the respondent, after receiving the
notification of the agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, adopted measures
tending to regularize the situation, although according to certain reasoning
aspects of the information currently offered in its privacy policy, and
which users can access through the link contained in the form
prior to the provision of your personal data, continue without adjusting to
said precept. Consequently, the respondent has violated the right to
information of the interested parties whose personal data is collected in the manner described.

The facts described constitute a violation of the duty to inform collected
in the aforementioned article 13 of the RGPD attributable to the claimed, which as
responsible for said treatment must take the necessary measures to
implement the necessary mechanisms to facilitate interested parties (buyers)
who complete the outlined form, prior to obtaining the data
requested personal information, the information indicated in article 13 of the RGPD, falling
also on the claimed the obligation to provide such information in accordance with
the requirements contemplated in said precept.

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD provide the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

v

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

Article 83 of the RGPD, under the heading “General conditions for the

imposition of administrative fines”, in its sections 2 and 5.b) states that:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). (…)

5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount: (...)

b) The rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;”.
For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
this organic law.”, establishing in article 74 of said Law that: “It is
considered minor and will prescribe after a year the remaining infractions of a
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

1. Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the
right to information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by
Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

From the reasoned, it is evident that as of January 14, 2019 the claimed
did not provide the interested parties to whom it requested personal data, prior to
obtaining it, information on the extremes outlined in proven fact 2.3 of
this act, continuing as of April 1, 2019 offering incorrect information
as stated in proven fact No. 3.3, which constitutes a violation of the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD in its relationship with the provisions of sections 1
and 2 of article 11 of the LOPDGDD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD and
classified as minor for prescription purposes in article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD.

In the present case, it is deemed appropriate to impose the sanction of
warning provided for in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD in view of the following
circumstances: it is a company whose main activity is not
linked to the usual processing of personal data; the absence of

11/12

intentionality in the offending conduct, as can be deduced from the interest shown by
the claimed party to, once received the agreement to initiate the procedure, introduce
a series of changes to adapt the information offered in the privacy policy
to the right to information of users whose personal data was going to be
collected from them and ensure that they had had access to it before
to continue the purchase process, notwithstanding that the corrections
carried out were insufficient; in addition to the administrative fine that could
fall in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a
disproportionate burden on that company.

Confirmed the infraction described, and appearing in the "Privacy Policy"
shown as of April 1, 2019 the information outlined in the Proven Fact
No. 3.2, and without the respondent having justified the correction of the irregular situation
described, it is appropriate to apply the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the RGPD
in order that, by the claimed party, the actions are carried out (measures
technical and organizational) necessary for the treatment operations to be
comply with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD in its relationship with the provisions of
sections 1 and 2 of article 11 of the LOPDGDD.

The respondent must prove before this Agency the performance of said
actions within a period of ONE MONTH, computed from the date on which the
this sanctioning resolution, through the provision of documentation or any
other means of proof valid in law that allows verifying the adequacy of the
privacy policy of the website and the information requested in the form
included in it under the name "My shopping basket: Shipping data" to the
right of transparency and information of the interested parties whose data is required
by that means. In any case, the claimed party must prove the mechanisms
implemented to facilitate the rest of the information that must be made available to
those affected in compliance with the right to information regulated in the RGPD.

It is noted that section 6 of article 83 of the RGPD, establishes that “6. The
Failure to comply with the resolutions of the supervisory authority pursuant to article 58,
paragraph 2, will be sanctioned in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”
Article 72.1.m) provides that: “1. According to what the article establishes
83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe to
three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following: (...)

m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority of
competent data protection in exercise of the powers conferred by article
58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE LIVING TERRITORIWEB, S.L., with NIF B63125041, of
In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, a sanction of
WARNING for a violation of the provisions of Article 13 of the RGPD in its

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

in relation to the provisions of sections 1 and 2 of article 11 of the LOPDGDD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: ORDER LIVING TERRITORIWEB, S.L., in accordance with the
provided for in article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the making of the modifications
necessary in the sections What personal data do we process? and “Updates from
our Privacy Policy” contained in the “Privacy Policy” document
of the website ***URL.1 so that the information contained therein responds
entirely to the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

The claimed party must prove to this Agency the completion of what is ordered
by means of any valid legal proof within ONE MONTH, counting from
the day following the notification of this resolution.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to LIVING TERRITORIWEB, S.L..

FOURTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

