1/8

 File No.: PS/00406/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated May 26, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against SOTOSERRANO CITY COUNCIL with NIF
P3731500I (hereinafter, the TOWN HALL). The reasons on which the
claim are as follows:
The municipality of Sotoserrano has disclosed your personal data, without your
consent, by allowing a councilor of the same to re-send a message via whatsapp
written document that the claimant party had filed with said city council, requesting
the removal of earth that had been deposited around his father's grave.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the CITY COUNCIL, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.
On 07/28/2021, a written response was presented to this Agency indicating
that, the claimant, is a first cousin of both B.B.B. (person who commissioned the
grave, as a result of which earth was deposited in the grave of the father of the
claimant), as well as C.C.C. (person who carried out the burial), and that to avoid a
family conflict, the councilor of the City Council D.D.D. contacted C.C.C.
to inform him that a complaint had been lodged against him for his actions in the
municipal cemetery (action that is also illegal).

The CITY COUNCIL adds that:
“considers that there has been no infringement of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
for the following reasons:
1.- No personal data of the claimant has been disclosed at any time.
2.- The transfer of the claimant's complaint document against the company that
carried out the burial of the owner of said company does not constitute an infraction
any of any provision of the Data Protection Law, since the purposes in which
that the transfer between interested parties took place are legitimately protected by the
municipal function. 3.- The transfer of documents by the City Council has been
produced solely and exclusively between parties with the condition of interested parties.”

THIRD: On August 2, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FOURTH: On October 4, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the CITY COUNCIL,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and Article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 and 83.4, respectively, of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On 10/27/2021, the CITY COUNCIL submitted a brief of allegations
to the initial agreement, in which, in summary, it stated that:

-There has been no violation of personal data since the information has been
only known by parties interested in the procedure.

-The transfer of the complaint document of the complaining party, against the company that
carried out the burial, to the owner of said company, does not constitute any infraction
of any precept of the Data Protection Law, since the purposes for which it is
produced the transfer between interested parties are legitimately protected by the function
municipal.

-The transfer of documents by the CITY COUNCIL has occurred only and
exclusively to the accused party. The absence of responsibility and the absence of
guilt of the TOWN HALL in the facts is evident.

-Compliance with current legislation obliges the CITY COUNCIL to transfer the
the allegations made by the complainant to the accused, without being able to be held responsible
the City Council of the illicit treatment or not that the accused makes of the complaint
case filed against him. The CITY COUNCIL is obliged by law to notify the
defendant part of the complaint made against him. This was done, according to media
electronic, without the CITY COUNCIL ever being responsible for what the
denounced with the complaint from which it is transferred.

-In no case has the CITY COUNCIL made it possible to know the data
personal information to unauthorized persons, since it has only been transferred to the
denounced of the complaint made against him, without being able to be responsible
CITY COUNCIL of what the defendant does upon receiving the complaint that is formulated
against him.

SIXTH: On January 12, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that, due to the infringement of articles 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD and 32 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD, is
sanction the CITY COUNCIL OF SOTOSERRANO with a WARNING to
each of them.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is accredited that the CITY COUNCIL has disseminated personal data
of the complaining party without legitimation, given that a councilor has sent by whatsapp
a document presented by the complaining party before said CITY COUNCIL, without its
consent.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

SECOND: It is accredited, as stated by the CITY COUNCIL, that the dissemination
of the personal data that appear in the writing was due to an attempt to avoid a
family conflict between the claimant and his cousins.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

The CITY COUNCIL is charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of the
Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and Article 32 of the RGPD.

II

Article 5.1.f) RGPD states that:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”).”

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD could lead to the commission of the
offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the heading "Conditions
rules for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
as a maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as the
that are contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the statute of limitations, article 72 “Infringements considered
very serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the
infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

 Throughout the investigation of this proceeding, it has been shown that
there has been a breach of confidentiality, given that the CITY COUNCIL
has disclosed personal data of the complaining party, such as his ID and his
address, when transferring your complaint to the responsible person, C.C.C., data that is not
are essential for the processing of said complaint, since the complaint may
processed without the respondent knowing the details of the complainant.
It is also considered that the transfer of the claim has not been made through the
adequate, since whatsapp is not the means of processing a file
administrative, as established in article 70 of the LPACAP. Also, it is not about
a complaint filed by the complaining party, but rather a complaint.

Therefore, the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD is accredited.

Article 83 section 7 of the RGPD, provides the following:

III

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
(…)

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

Article 32 “Security of treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

IV

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD could lead to the commission of the infractions
typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the heading "General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
of the treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.
(…)

It has been shown that the CITY COUNCIL allowed the sending, through
whatsapp, of a document submitted by the claimant, containing data
personal information not necessary for its purpose, and without prior anonymization, therefore
that it is proven that it lacked adequate organizational and technical measures
to have avoided it, and therefore, an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD has been incurred.

Article 83 section 7 of the RGPD, provides the following:

v

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
(…)

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE SOTOSERRANO CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P3731500I,
for an infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

IMPOSE SOTOSERRANO CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P3731500I, for a
infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF
SOTOSERRANO.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-150222

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

