1/4

Procedure No.: PS/00034/2019

RESOLUTION: R/00473/2019

In procedure PS/00034/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to Don A.A.A. And B.B.B., given the complaint filed by Don
C.C.C. and by virtue of the following,

FACTS

FIRST: C.C.C. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 10, 2018
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, motivated by
the processing of data carried out through cameras of a video surveillance system
whose owner identifies as the neighbors of the property A.A.A. and B.B.B. (hereinafter the
claimed) installed at ***ADDRESS.1.

The reasons on which the claim is based are "the denounced neighbors of the
undersigned have installed a video-surveillance camera on the landing between
their homes” (folio nº 1).

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, in accordance with the evidence
that is available, the Data Inspection of this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data considers that the treatment of personal data that is carried out by the
denounced through the chambers to which the complaint refers, does not meet the
conditions imposed by the regulations on data protection, for which reason the
opening of this sanctioning procedure.

THIRD. On 11/06/18, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the party
denounced (s) so that he could allege in Law what he deems appropriate, stating
as "notified" in the computer system of this body.

FOURTH: On July 30, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to submit this
warning procedure PS/00034/2019. This agreement was notified to
denounced.

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 10/10/18 a claim is filed by the complainant for
means of which states the following:

“The denounced neighbors of the undersigned have installed a video camera-

surveillance on the landing between their homes” (folio nº 1).

Second. The complainant identifies the main culprits as the neighbors
next A.A.A. and B.B.B., although it does not provide more information about them.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

Collaboration requested from the Tax Agency, it is not possible to identify them as they are not

have their ID.

Third. On 11/06/18 and 11/30/18 an attempt was made to contact the accused,
resulting in unsuccessful communications made.

Fourth. It is not possible to determine if the device does not comply with current legislation in
based on the evidence provided by the complainant.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to analyze the claim dated 10/10/18 by
means of which he transfers as the main “fact”:

“The denounced neighbors of the undersigned have installed a video camera-

surveillance on the landing between their homes” (folio nº 1).

The cameras installed by individuals cannot be oriented towards the area
private third parties, obtaining images/sound of third party conversations, by
affect their privacy, regardless of the fact that there are less invasive measures of privacy
mentioned, if necessary.

The facts described could imply an affectation to article 5 RGPD "The

personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

III

For informational purposes only, it is worth remembering some of the requirements that must be
comply with the processing of images through a video surveillance system to be
in accordance with current regulations:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space since the treatment of images in places
public can only be carried out, where appropriate, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in article
12 of the RGPD 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the terms referred to both in the
cited article, as in articles 13 and 14 of said rule, resulting from the application
-by not contradicting the provisions of the aforementioned Regulation-, the manner provided in the
Article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, on the Processing of Personal Data for the Purpose of
Surveillance through Camera Systems or Video Cameras (Instruction 1/2006, of 8
of November, of the Spanish Data Protection Agency).

Specifically, it must:

Place in the video-monitored areas, at least one badge
1.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in spaces
open as closed.

In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the informative sign previously
mentioned must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided in
these precepts.

Keep available to those affected the information to which

two.
refers to the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016.

IV

In accordance with the available evidence, it should be noted that it has not been
possible to contact the defendants, nor is the mandatory DNI available (Document
National Identity Document) of the same in order to be able to continue with the processing
of the procedure

Article 89 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following:

“The investigating body will resolve the completion of the procedure, with a file of
the actions, without it being necessary to formulate the resolution proposal,
when in the procedure instruction it becomes clear that there is any
of the following circumstances:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

b) When the facts are not proven (...).

It should be noted that the mere visualization of the cameras does not imply affectation to

the privacy of third parties (including the complainant himself).

The cameras can be placed by individuals for the purpose of protection
of your home or even be "simulated" cameras that fulfill a function
dissuasive, without any personal data processing being carried out.

The fact of visualizing them, given the proximity of the dwellings, does not imply the
capture of common and/or private space of a third party without just cause, beyond
the mere observance of them.

The complainant may deem it appropriate to report the facts to the
Security Forces of the locality, which must carry out the investigations
information about the facts or go to the Investigating Court closest to
the appropriate legal effects.

According to what was stated,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.- PROCEED to decree the FILE of this procedure since there are no
facts that are reported.

2.- NOTIFY this Agreement to the denouncing party Mr. C.C.C..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.2 of the
LOPD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

