

Bonn/Berlin, December 31, 2018


Press release 11/2018


  Digitization without data protection is like developing a drug without testing for side effects
For more than six months now, the GDPR has been the uniform legal framework for the protection of people in the digital world throughout Europe. Instead of placing this protection at the center of the evaluation, the »product« GDPR experienced a »market launch«, which was also characterized by misunderstandings and pseudo-scandals in the media.

Again and again we read about individual everyday situations that are said to be no longer manageable as before due to the GDPR. Whether it's the further use of doorbells, taking pictures in kindergartens or the payment of Christmas bonuses for social welfare recipients; none of these examples are prevented or made impossible by the GDPR in any way. Many requirements and prohibitions that are hastily attributed to the GDPR as innovations were mostly already present in the "old" data protection law. Anyone who failed to observe these rules in the past was therefore already acting illegally before the GDPR.
Instead of reacting to this misinformation with more clarification, the first hasty voices were raised from politicians calling for rapid changes and adjustments. The argument that our economy would have to shelve its digitization efforts for data protection reasons is always a popular argument.
But here again there is a misunderstanding. Because anyone who wants to shape digitization and grind data protection for it is acting backwards, taking a fatal course and will ultimately fail. Anyone who repeatedly puts forward data protection as an alleged obstacle to digitization misjudges its importance and makes it too easy for themselves.
Misuse of data endangers our basic democratic understanding, which focuses on the human being as an individual to be protected. In this context, Tim Cook, the head of Apple, recently stated that he considers data protection to be one of the most important issues of the 21st century. Due to many years of experience, Germany in particular has a core competence that can be used as a competitive advantage in economic development.
Data protection does not inhibit, but is the orientation and navigation bar of our digital everyday life. It is the pillar of a humane and people-serving digital world. It remains to be hoped that all active political actors will finally recognize that data protection-friendly technologies are the actual drivers of successful digitization that serves people and that unbridled data power and data misuse are the nails in their coffin. Not least because of this, the litmus test for the GDPR will be how it can be consistently enforced against the big Internet giants.
When evaluating the GDPR, it will certainly be necessary to put one or the other bureaucratic requirement to the test. However, this is not a contradiction to the fundamental importance of data protection. In the new year, it should therefore be the common goal of supervisory authorities, politicians and the media to give citizens, clubs, associations and small companies the necessary assistance to make them better understand the importance and advantages of data protection.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











