1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00417/2020

938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/0417/2020, before the entity, CERTIME, S.A. with
CIF.: A48158422, (hereinafter, "the claimed entity"), by virtue of a complaint filed
presented by Ms. A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the claimant"), and based on the following
you:

BACKGROUND:

FIRST: Dated 07/11/19, has entry in this Agency, complaint filed
by the claimant, through the Basque Data Protection Agency, in which it indicates
includes, among others, the following:
“In 2009 I renewed my driving license through the company CERTIME. In the
In 2018 I changed my address and in 2019 I received postal advertising in my name
and to my new new CERTIME address. I talk to them and they tell me that they take out the
addresses from their databases, but when I tell them that I have changed my address,
They answer that they update it with the DGT”.
SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the investigative powers
tion granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 08/29/19 and 09/09/19, two separate requests are addressed
informative data to the claimed entity.
According to a certificate from the Electronic Notifications and Electronic Address Service, the
request sent to the claimed entity, on 08/29/19, through the service of
NOTIFIC@ notifications, was rejected at destination on 09/09/19.
According to a certificate from the State Post and Telegraph Society, the request sent
to the claimed entity, on 09/09/19, through the SICER service, it was delivered
ga-do at destination on 09/11/19.
THIRD: On 10/10/19, this Agency received a written response to the
requirement, which indicates, among others, that:
“1.- The data collected based on our activity is obtained by the inte-
paid once a contractual service provision relationship begins with it.
cios (attached card with date and signature). 2.- The data obtained by
of CERTIME S.A. are obtained with its consent and based on the regulations
data protection law in force at that time. 3.- All data obtained
two and modified by CERTIME S.A. they are the object of the databases of the DGT.
Any modification is made with a commercial purpose of continuity of provision of
services and file updating. 4.- Your rights have not been exercised at any time.
ARCO rights, and specifically your right to Data Portability or Cancellation of the
themselves. Therefore, and based on all of this, I am attaching the documentation and file of the claim.
ment for the resolution of this matter in the best possible way.”
FOURTH: On 10/10/19, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, an agreement is issued for the admission of the complaint filed.
given by the claimant, in accordance with article 65 of Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

them (LPDGDD), considering that the response given by the respondent to this Agency
In relation to the claimed facts, it does not prove its legitimacy for the treatment of
the claimant's data for commercial or advertising purposes.

FIFTH: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the Data Inspection SG proceeded to carry out
tions for clarification, in accordance with article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
digital data (hereinafter LOPDGDD). Thus, dated 06/22/20 and 07/17/20, and number
of reference E/08069/2020, a written request for information was addressed to the
entity claimed on: “the data that were in their systems or files related to
the complainant, current or former; information on data protection
provided to the claimant at the time of data collection and details how to act
yields to the traffic information, to which register and for what purpose”.
SIXTH: On 07/29/20, this Agency received a written response to the request
request, in which it is indicated, among others, that:
“1.- That the data contained in the company's systems or files relating to the
denouncer are those indicated in the attached file, being the only change
that of the portal number, a change facilitated by the traffic database. 2.- That in the
At the time of collecting the initial data of the claimant, there was no model of Pro-
Protection of Data such as the current one, in which consent would have to be requested in a
format similar to the current one, so the requested information cannot be provided. I know
Attached to this letter is the current model on data protection that is provided
ta to customers. 3.- In relation to how to access traffic information,
like all medical centers that are dedicated to the processing of certificates for the
extension of driving licences, CERTIME, S.A. has access to the application te-
lematics of the General Directorate of Traffic, through which it is verified in situ
with the client who comes to renew his permit that his data is correct, so
that can be updated otherwise. This application informs us about the
upcoming expiration of driving licenses, and we send communication to
clients to inform them about that next expiration date, trying to avoid the in-
convenient that derive from circulating with the expired permit”.
SEVENTH: On 10/08/20, a written request for information is sent to the Di-
General Directorate of Traffic, under the investigative powers granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of the RGPD, in which said Organization is requested
so that it reports on: “if the driver recognition centers (CRC) have
access, through some telematic or web application, to the contact data of your
customers that appear in the systems or databases of the General Directorate of Traffic
fico and, where appropriate, agreement, regulations, or convention that enables them to do so”
EIGHTH: On 11/16/20, this Agency received a letter from the Managing Director
General Traffic, in response to the request made, in which it indicates that:
“It is reported that driver recognition centers cannot access the
Registration of drivers or medical reports, so from this body
no personal data is transferred to them. However, when they are making a report
doctor to a client, after introducing the DOI (official identification document) of the
customer and their date of birth, they can view their address to verify if it is correct and,
at the request of the interested party, if they renew the driving license, they can modify it, to
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

that the permit arrives at the updated address of the interested party. This activity is carried out
in accordance with article 3.2 of Royal Decree 170/2010, of February 19, by which
the Regulation of recognition centers destined to verify the ap-
psychophysical attitudes of drivers, which establishes: When so requested by the interest
sado, these centers may manage on their behalf before the Provincial Headquarters of Trá-
fico, the extension of validity of driving permits or licenses, for which de-
They must provide the documents required for such purposes by current regulations.
tea".

NINTH: On 11/27/20, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the entity claimed, by virtue of
the established powers, for failing to comply with the provisions of article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, by
treat the personal data of the claimant for a different and incompatible purpose
with the initial purpose for which they were obtained.

TENTH: After the notification of the initiation of the file, it has not been received in this
Agency, no brief of allegations to said initiation, in the period granted to the
effect.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- In the present case, the claimant denounces that, in 2009, she renewed her
to drive through the entity CERTIME SA., providing them with your personal data
nals for it. In 2018 he changed his address and some time later he received, in his
new address, an advertising letter from the entity CERTIME SA., advising it of the
expiration date of your driver's license, without having given them your consent.
ment for this fact, nor having indicated the data of his new address.
2º.- The entity claimed alleges that the data of the new address had been obtained from the
database of the DGT, with which it has a signed agreement for it and they have sent
do the communication to the claimant, based on the existing contractual legitimate interest
among them.
3º.- According to the DGT, knowing the new address of the interested parties is only
possible when, in the presence of them, the medical report is being made and after in-
introduce the DOI (official identification document) you can check the new do-
my office, and to be able to verify if it is correct or not and, after the consent of the interested party,
der to modify it, so that the permit arrives at the new address.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of
Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the Free
Circulation of these Data (RGPD) recognizes each Control Authority and, as
established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD),
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claimant denounces that, in 2009, she renewed her
drive through the entity CERTIME SA., providing them with your data
personal for it. In 2018 he changed his address and some time later he received,
at her new address, an advertising letter from the entity CERTIME SA., advising her
of the next expiry date of your driving licence, without having provided them with your
consent for this fact, nor having indicated the details of their new address.
The respondent entity alleges that the information on the new address has been obtained from the database
data of the DGT, with which it has a signed agreement for it and has sent the
communication based on the legitimate contractual interest between the claimant and
they.

However, the DGT informs this Agency that, only in the presence of the
interested and, "(...) when they are making a medical report to a client, after
enter the DOI (official identification document) of the client and its date of
birth, they can see your address to verify if it is correct and, at the request of the
interested, if they renew the driving license, they can modify it, so that the
permission arrives at the updated address of the interested party (...)”.

On the other hand, it is not valid to argue that, at the time of collecting the data
initials of the complainant, (in 2009) there was not "a model of protection of
data”, to obtain your consent to use them for purposes other than those
initially planned, since the new regulations on data protection (RGPD),
establishes, in its article 99, that the entry into force and application of the new RGPD was
as of 05/25/18, repealing the L.O. 15/1999, (LOPD).

Therefore, all communication with former users of the center, carried out with
after that date, (05/25/18), which had another purpose other than the
initially granted, as in this case, "notify the interested party of the next
expiration of your driving license and offer you the services of the center again
to process your renewal”, you should have obtained it at the time or in case
contrary, having made the necessary arrangements to obtain it later and thus
adapt it to the new regulations in force.

In this context, article 5.1.b) of the GDPR establishes that personal data
will be: “collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; (…) (limitation of the
purpose)”.

On the other hand, Article 12 of the RGPD, referring to the "transparency of information,
communication and modalities of exercising the rights of the interested party”, in its
section 1, establishes that: “1. The data controller will take the necessary measures
appropriate to provide the interested party with all the information indicated in articles 13 and
14, as well as any communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to
to treatment, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible manner, with a
clear and simple language, (...)”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

Article 14.2.f) of the RGPD, determines that: “the data controller will provide
to the interested party the source from which the personal data comes and, where appropriate, if
come from publicly accessible sources.

In accordance with the available evidence, the exposed facts are
constituting an infringement of the principle of purpose limitation, for which
collect the personal data of users, regulated in the RGPD (5.1.b.).

For its part, article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of the RGPD”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, in order to set the amount of the penalty to
impose in the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed
in accordance with the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the
GDPR: the category of personal data affected by the infringement,
(section g) and the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the
infraction, that is, through a complaint filed by the claimant, (section h).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 5.1.b)
allows to set a penalty of 5,000 euros, (five thousand euros).

In accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection,

 :
RESOLVE
 

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity, the entity CERTIME, S.A. with CIF.: A48158422,
a penalty of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros), for infraction of article 5.1.b) of the
RGPD, when treating the personal data of the claimant with a different purpose and in-
compatible with the initial purpose for which they were collected.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity CERTIME, S.A. and INFO-
MAR to the claimant the result of this procedure.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must make it effective
Once this resolution is executed, in accordance with the provisions of art.
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure Co-
Public Administrations (LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period that
points out article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal De-
decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the Bank
CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in the executable period.
crop.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30,
bre, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, this Resolution is
will make public, once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication is made
will be in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may interpose
have, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection within a period of one month from the day following the notification
fication of this resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

