1/8

824-150719

 Procedure No. PS/00429/2019

RESOLUTION: R/00113/2020

In sanctioning procedure PS/00429/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to the entity VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., given the complaint filed
by A.A.A., and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on February 21, 2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against Vodafone Spain, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The claimant states that he contracted telephony services with the entity

claimed as a new discharge.

Subsequently, he receives a series of text messages informing him of discharge in another

operator and informing you that your order is in progress.

Thus, after making the pertinent inquiries, the claimant discovers that
a worker at the Vodafone store pretended to be him, registering with another
company and thus carry out portability by providing DNI and data without consent and
forging your signature.

And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:

 Screenshot of received text messages.
 Copy of the delivery note for 1 package at the address ***ADDRESS.1 where it appears
as recipient of the shipment A.A.A. and INTERBOX (LLAMAYA) appears as sender. The
delivery note figure signed by A.A.A..

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to
carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of investigation
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD).

Thus, on April 10, 2019, the complaint was transferred to the party claimed.
in the actions with reference E/04041/2019. The notice is delivered dated
April 15, 2019. No reply received

Well, on September 17 of this year, the request for
information to the claimed party, in the proceedings with reference E/07681/2019. The

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

notification is recorded delivered on the 18th of the same month and year, not having received
response in this Agency.

THIRD: On December 3, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed entity, in
under the powers established in article 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and
68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for the violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Notified of the initiation agreement, the entity claimed, by means of a letter dated 26
December 2019, made, in summary, the following allegations:

“It should be noted, in the first place, that the factual assumption before which we find ourselves and
that affects Vodafone is the part of the portability of the claimant's unacknowledged line
which was managed by the teleshopping channel. In this sense, it is provided as a document
number 1 the recording of said hiring that, clearly, shows that for me
represented the hiring was correct and had the appearance of certain and consented by the
headline.

In this sense, it is relevant to highlight the repeal of article 130 of Law 30/1992, of 26
of November, on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and the Procedure
Common Administrative.

Again, we retract that my client understands that we are facing the lack of
scope for liability without fault, a principle that governs or must govern in the
sanctioning administrative.

It has been shown that Vodafone could not have been aware of the misuse by
employee's part of the claimant's data, in addition to the fact that there is the
recording that demonstrates that there was a hiring that exceeded the security requirements
established for the teleshopping channel. Therefore, for Vodafone, we insist, this
contracting had a legitimate appearance and had the consent of the owner. sample of
diligence and lack of intent is the fact that my client at the same time that
was aware of the situation, qualified the registration as fraud and terminated the service.

For all these reasons, agree: The dismissal of the file, with the consequent filing of the
performances. Subsidiarily, impose a sanction on my client having taken into account
account the AEPD for the determination of its amount, the alluded mitigating factors”.

FIFTH: On January 10, 2020, the test practice period began,
remembering: 1. Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated that are part of the
file and 2. Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement of
beginning of PS/00429/2019, presented by the entity denounced.
SIXTH: On February 4, 2020, it was issued and notified on the 6th of the same month and year to
Vodafone the Resolution Proposal, for alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, proposing a fine of €60,000.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

Vodafone presented arguments to the Resolution Proposal, stating that it

reiterates the allegations already made to the Home Agreement.

PROVEN FACTS

1º On February 21, 2019, the claimant states that he contracted the services of

telephony with the entity claimed as a new registration.

Subsequently, he receives a series of text messages informing him of discharge in another

operator and informing you that your order is in progress.

2º The claimant provides a screenshot of the text messages received and a copy
delivery note of a package at the address *** ADDRESS.1 where it appears as
recipient of the shipment A.A.A. and INTERBOX (LLAMAYA) appears as sender. the delivery note
figure signed by A.A.A.

3rd It is recorded that on April 10, 2019, the complaint was transferred to the party
claimed in the proceedings with reference E/04041/2019. The notice is delivered
dated April 15, 2019. No reply received

4º On September 17 of this year, the request for information was sent again to
the party claimed, in the proceedings with reference E/07681/2019. The notice consists
delivered on the 18th of the same month and year, not having received a reply in this
Agency.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve this procedure.

II

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of article 6
of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", which indicates in its section 1 the cases in which the
Processing of third party data is considered lawful:

                 "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data for
one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

(…)”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent
treatment under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

  The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements considered
very serious” states:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in particular, the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the claimed,
violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, every time there was a fraud in the contracting, as well
as in the request for the order that was made on behalf of the claimant without his consent.

The Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National High Court, in cases such as
the one that arises here, has considered that when the owner of the data denies the hiring
The burden of proof corresponds to the person who affirms its existence, and the person responsible for the
data processing of third parties collect and keep the necessary documentation to
accredit the consent of the holder. We cite, for all, the SAN of 05/31/2006 (Rec.
539/2004), Fourth Law Basis.

However, and this is essential, the respondent has not proven that the holder of the
personal data object of treatment will give consent to the celebration of a
contract with the claimed entity. He did not fulfill the inexcusable obligation imposed by the
data protection regulations to prove that it collected and obtained the consent of the
owner of the data for its treatment.

The respondent did not prove that the affected party gave his consent, nor did he provide
any document or element of evidence that proves it, and did not display the minimum diligence
required to verify that your interlocutor was indeed who he claimed to be.

Respect for the principle of legality, before the principle of consent, which is in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

essence of the fundamental right to protection of personal data, requires that
accredited evidence that the owner of the data consented or, at least, that the person responsible for the
treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that point. not to act like this
-and if this is not required by this Agency, which is responsible for ensuring compliance with the
regulations governing the right to protection of personal data- the result
would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

IV

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the following must be observed:

the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

         “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
in accordance with this article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in the
sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

          “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures referred to in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount
In each individual case, due account shall be taken of:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

         "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also
may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission

of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which there are
controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the sanction of
fine to be imposed in the present case for the infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD
for which the defendant is held responsible, the following factors are considered concurrent:

As aggravating criteria:

-

-

The nature, seriousness and duration of the infraction, (section a).

The intent or negligence in the infringement (section b).

- For other previous infractions committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the

treatment (section e).

- Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, surnames,

domicile) (section g).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with respect to the
infraction committed by violating what is established in article 6 allows to set a sanction of
60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros), typified as "very serious", for the purposes of prescription of the
same, in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

           v

Considering the aforementioned precepts and others of general application,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a
violation of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of
€60,000.00 (sixty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A80907397.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of art. 98.1.b) of
Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the established voluntary payment period
in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005,
of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, through its
income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document, in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the Bank
CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is between the
days 1 and 15 of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the voluntary payment will be until
on the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if it is between the 16th and
last of each month, both inclusive, the payment term will be until the 5th of the second month
next or immediately following business.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this Resolution
It will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision of
Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

