Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of May 4th, 2022
 
 05/02/2022
 
 
 
 
 privacy
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
Data protection conference calls for employee data protection law The conference of the independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) published its call for an employee data protection law today. In their resolution, the data protection officers point out that the dynamically developing digitization is leading to far-reaching changes in the world of work, which open up new possibilities for behavior and performance controls. Therefore, from their point of view, further legal regulations, as announced in the coalition agreement at federal level, are necessary and overdue. The chairman of the DSK, Professor Ulrich Kelber, Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI): "The current regulations on employee data protection are far from sufficient. The legislator must create an independent employee data protection law." BfDI Kelber explains the main content: "Regulations on the use of algorithmic systems - including artificial intelligence - in the employment context are important. The employees and applicants are particularly in need of protection because of their dependency relationship. So that this need for protection is taken into account and at the same time everyone If those involved can benefit from the opportunities offered by the use of AI, legal regulations are essential." In its resolution, the DSK presents core areas in which legal regulations must be created. The chairman of the DSK, Professor Ulrich Kelber, emphasizes one area in particular: "Legal regulations on data processing in the application phase are of central importance. So far, there have been no specific legal regulations. This leads to insufficient legal certainty, for example in areas such as the right of employers to ask questions , when data is collected about the applicants in social networks, with third parties or with so-called active sourcing." Active sourcing is understood to mean methods with which companies identify and contact candidates for vacancies. The text of the resolution is published on the BfDI homepage: https://www.bfdi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/DSK/DSKEntschlussungen/DSK_20220429-Besch%C3%A4ftedatenschutz.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=1 Further Information on the data protection conference: www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.deContact: The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Graurheindorfer Straße 153 53117 Bonn Email: pressestelle (at) bfdi.bund.de
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 PRESS RELEASE of the Conference of the Independent Federal and State Data Protection Authorities of May 4, 2022
 
 Data protection conference calls for employee data protection law
 419KB
 
 Resolution of the Conference of Independent Federal and State Data Protection Authorities of April 29, 2022
 
 The time for an employee data protection law is "now"!
 681KB
 