THE STATE OFFICER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

02/17/2021

 LfDI Stefan Brink supports the use of the

"luca" - App against Corona

 

LfDI Brink: “The luca app makes an important contribution

in tracing contacts during pan-

demie and thereby fulfills our high data protection

Default."

 
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Information

heit of Baden-Württemberg supports with the "luca" app

a smart and innovative approach to pandemic

fight, also through the commitment of the Fantastic

Four is worn with the Stuttgart Smudo.

 

The aim of this app is, in the course of fighting the pandemic,

the individual a technical possibility at hand

indicate to document contacts and in case of infection

to the responsible health authority.

 

The "luca" app saves the data and contacts decentrally

on your own smartphone and encrypts it, one access

 

- 2 -

this is only possible with express consent. Even

the operator of the app has no access to this personal

data. So sovereignty over the data remains intact

starting with each user himself.

 

The previous paper economy in many service areas

with poorly legible, incorrect or incomplete roof

ten is thus overcome. After releasing the contact details

by the infected person and the luca user can

Employees of the health authorities quickly and without

special effort to get verified contact data,

Contact persons can be informed completely with one click

will.

 

In addition, the state representative for data protection Stefan

Brink: "As a data protection officer, I support the "luca" app

fully convinced. This tool is a valuable addition

of the previous state protective measures for tracking

of contacts during the pandemic. We have the

App checked technically and legally. The app fulfills our

high data protection standards. The documentation of the

ten contacts are encrypted using state-of-the-art technology

and it is entirely in the hands of the luca user whether, when and

with whom he chooses to share this sensitive data.”

 

In addition, the "luca" app could be very valuable

make a contribution to help the health authorities with the follow-up

relieving chains of infection, Brink continued. "The

App offers the technical possibility to quickly

ler to recognize and thus stop faster. and

this in turn offers all of us the chance to

to avoid downs or closures. This shortens

our way to the well-known and longed-for freedom!”

 

