The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

PRESS RELEASE

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen

Bremen/Bremerhaven,

March 29, 2019

State Commissioner for Data Protection after 10 months GDPR: under maximum load, but

very satisfied

Very pleased that the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is in place at the

Apparently those affected have arrived in the state of Bremen, Dr. Imke Sommer as Bremische

State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) published its first activity report

according to the GDPR. Compared to the previous reports, it turned out to be very compact.

The reason: "In 2018, we received more than 5 submissions on each calendar day. Since

With the GDPR coming into effect, the number of complaints has increased by 80% and the number of

Fifteen times the number of data breach reports. Compared to the previous year, the number of

Consultation requests increased by 185%. Given our very limited staff

We had to prioritize resources

put and have

primarily the special

areas relevant to fundamental rights processed. Just a much-needed reinforcement

can ensure that we can devote ourselves to all our tasks again in the future."

The head of the smallest German, maybe even the smallest European supervisory authority

sees it as a success of the GDPR that since the end of May 2018 the workload of their authority has increased

increased so significantly: "This immense increase in workload for us as the control authority shows that the

DSGVO is good for the people in the state of Bremen. The GDPR rightly states that the

Handling complaints takes precedence over other tasks. Unfortunately we have to state that the

The mountain of complaints we receive is growing so fast that it is impossible for us to keep track of it

to be removed." And this although the LfDI has already changed course and the consulting work for not

public bodies has almost completely stopped and greatly reduced for public bodies. To

The perception of the LfDI is the role of data protection law, which has been significantly strengthened since May 2018

Supervisory authorities aware of those responsible in the state of Bremen. From the risen

The LfDI's workload does not give her the all-clear, quite the opposite: "Ours

Motivation, the fundamental right to informational self-determination with the available to us

To consistently enforce existing new and old tools is unbroken."

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Arndtstraße 1, 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Fax: 0421 - 496 - 18495 • Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

The Bremen LfDI is confident that the day after the first birthday of the

GDPR together with the European Parliament newly elected Bremen citizenship

decide on an increase in staff at the Bremen supervisory authority and thus the

will meet the requirements of the GDPR directed by the budgetary legislator. After that they have to

Data protection authorities are equipped to carry out all tasks and powers effectively

can perceive.

 

In other areas, too, the Bremen legislature still has to protect data

follow up: "Not all Bremen laws where this should have happened are yet in place

the GDPR has been adjusted. In the event of contradictions, the GDPR applies directly, although in

Bremen's legal text, the old regulations are shown as up-to-date. Also the

European Directive on the Protection of Personal Data in the Field of Law Enforcement

so-called JI directive, has not yet been amended almost a year after the end of the implementation period

of the Bremen police law and the Bremen penal system laws have been implemented. the

A lack of implementation of European legal requirements in Bremen state law has the consequence that

those applying the law often do not know which rules actually apply."

 

The activity report on data protection shows a continuation of the trend towards digitization

Data breaches: digitally related complaints such as telemedia and

Advertising recorded the strongest increases, each tripling.

 

The Bremen supervisory authority was also reached in the area of employee data protection

as in the previous year, a complaint in almost every calendar week. This shows how strong

Degrees especially employees of small companies are in need of protection. This exposes itself for

the Bremen State Commissioner misinterpreted the view that the GDPR is mainly

Taming the US internet giants: "Of course the GDPR protects the

Saleswoman from being constantly monitored by cameras in a small kiosk, whose pictures her

employer can view in real time on his smartphone. To think that the European

Charter of Fundamental Rights leaves precisely those who make their living in precarious conditions unprotected

earning a job would be to fundamentally misunderstand Europe!"

 

The 13th annual report on freedom of information, which was also presented, ensures the transparency of

Algorithms and artificial intelligence (AI) in administration to the fore. The LfDI provides

states: "Of course, it is also the responsibility of public authorities that use algorithms and AI

to reveal their "involved logic". To clarify this in the Bremen Freedom of Information Act,

The Bremen legislature could also undertake this, once again nationwide

precede."

 

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

