1/8

 File No.: PS/00376/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 26, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against CITY COUNCIL R.R.R. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter,
the claimed party). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

-Dissemination of images of unidentified people on the social network-facebook—
by the CITY COUNCIL R.R.R. (Madrid) to accredit the alleged perpetrators
of acts of vandalism in the village festivals.

-Installation of video-surveillance cameras by the City Council that

show various irregularities.

-Deficiencies in the informative signage when indicating that it is

a video-monitored area.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in fe-
date 04/30/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
cough in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: On 06/09/21, a response is received from the respondent, providing photo-
graphy (s) that do not allow verifying the content of the informative device, nor the number
number of cameras that it has installed in a situation plan.

FOURTH: On 07/01/21 new allegations are received from the respondent indicating-
do that the system is made up of 14 video-surveillance cameras.

a. The sports center cameras do not invade public roads (6 cameras). b. chambers of the
Zacatín bridge (tourist building, access with tour guide)(4 cameras) c. The ca-
gangs of the city hall only the accesses to the building. (4 cameras).

MEASURES. a. Communication prohibiting the sending of any type of images by
private groups. b. In the monitor of the sports center, change of location of the monitor
so that it is not visible from the outside.
FIFTH: On July 19, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the claimant party.
keep.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

SIXTH: On September 7, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, with
glo to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Pro-
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD and Article 13 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SEVENTH: On 09/27/21, a written statement is received from the respondent
in which it succinctly states the following:

“As it was previously stated in the required information that the images
nes cited have NEVER been exposed on the social network Facebook. They are images
stolen (we were unaware until this complaint) of a whatsapp group
private internal work of the City Council (and encrypted by the app itself). (They have already been
removed from that group). These images were taken between March and May
2018. (having been notified of said dissemination outside the working group by
the AEPD in June 2021)

The quality of the images is very defective, making it impossible to identify
tification of protected faces or details, with old cameras and are used more for du
dissuasive power than by the identification (...)

Changed all updated “video surveillance area” indicators to

new European regulation (...)

The town hall recording is 15 days in loop recording, the access
The recording is in a locked room with a password to the system
engraving (...)”.

EIGHTH: On 10/04/21, a “Resolution Proposal” was issued, in which
agreed to propose a warning to the respondent for having proceeded to the
correction of certain "irregularities" of the installed system, after having knowledge
of the events carried out by this body.

NINTH: The database of this Agency consulted on 12/20/21 has not been
received a new allegation in this regard.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 03/26/21 through the
which reveal the following "irregularities" in the video-vi- system
gilance of the R.R.R. CITY COUNCIL.

Second. It is accredited that the main person in charge is the entity TOWN HALL-
I LIE R.R.R..

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

Third. It is proven that the information duty of the system was not in accordance with
current legislation, having proceeded to change the informative badges, adjusting
bringing them to current regulations.

Fourth. The screen prints provided by the claimed Entity (Doc. proba-
tory No. 2 Written arguments) do not allow to verify affectation of establishment
hotelier close to the area, although they state that in a percentage of 80% they point
to land owned by the local council.

Fifth. The entity claimed acknowledges that images from the video-surveillance system
were disseminated in a private WhatsApp chat, indicating as the date of the events
chos -March and May 2018—although it denies the "public dissemination on social networks" and
that "have been eliminated."

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 03/26/21 is examined by me-
from which various irregularities are transferred in the video-surveillance system
felled by the CITY COUNCIL R.R.R. (Madrid).

“8 cameras have been located that are not marked and do not have

of informative badge” (folio nº 2).

The installation of video surveillance cameras on the street corresponds solely and exclusively to
to the State Security Forces and Bodies in the performance of functions
security.

For there to be "data processing" it must be associated with an identified person or
identifiable, stating the claimant that the “faces of the people are covered
you give".

When the City Council wants to install a video surveillance system with the
to prevent crime, deter the commission of crimes or leave evidence of them
when they are committed, the authorization comes from the Video Surveillance Guarantees Commission.
lancia.

The process must also be carried out in accordance with compliance with the Or-
Law 4/1997, of August 4, which regulates the use of video cameras by
the Security Forces and Bodies in public places and the regulations that develop
rrolla, approved by Royal Decree 596/1999.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

The request must be addressed to the Government Delegate in the Autonomous Community
ma and must include data regarding the reasons for which it is requested, the area that you want
be recorded with video surveillance cameras and the need, if it exists, of gra-
bar sounds following the restrictions of the legislation on the matter.

Other issues that must be specified in the document are the qualification of the
people who will work with the images and sound that are recorded, the characteristics
techniques of the video surveillance equipment and the period during which it will proceed
to make recordings.

The City Council may have a video surveillance camera system
with the purpose of protecting the town hall and its belongings, this being flexible
agency in terms of their perimeter scope, as long as they adhere
for the purpose described and is duly informed by means of the necessary badges.
documents that allow knowing that it is a video-monitored area, as well as facilitating
do the exercise of rights 12-22 RGPD to all those affected by them.

The facts denounced could imply an affectation to the content of art. 5.1 c)
RGPD (regulation currently in force) that provides: “personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”) (…)”.

Article 22, section 2 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) “Only
Images of public roads will be captured to the extent that it is essential
for the purpose mentioned in the previous section. However, it will be possible to
construction of the public road in a higher extension when necessary to guarantee
guarantee the security of strategic assets or installations or of infrastructures linked
given to transport, without in any case implying the capture of images of the
inside a private home.

As stated in the claim, any of the pre-installed cameras
sumptuously they excessively capture private space of a third party “part of a restaurant”
next to you”.

As a second question, the complainant considers that the installed cameras are not
signposted as they lack any informative sign where it is indicated that they are
ta of a video-monitored area, which supposes an affectation to the content of art. 13
GDPR.

Article 22 section 4 of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative site a connection code or internet address to this information
(…)”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding
sanctioning party, it is considered that the claimed party has a video system
surveillance that did not comply with current legislation, lacking the distinctive
necessary informative information required in accordance with the regulations in force.

The entity claimed has accredited the change of signage (attach a copy of the
informative badge) adjusted to the regulations in force: current RGPD-EU Regulation
2016/679—so that the system is currently duly informed,
the same must be in the main entrances of the Town Hall.

The respondent also provides a screen print of one (s) of
the cameras, without printing date and time, but that allow to prove that they are not
focused on the private area of third parties.

Article 22 section 2 “in fine” provides the following: “However, it will be possible
It is possible to capture the public road in a greater extension when necessary
to guarantee the security of assets or strategic installations or infrastructure
companies linked to transport, without in any case implying the capture of
images of the interior of a private home” (*the underlining belongs to this AEPD).

Lastly, although without delving into the matter, he recognized the spread of
images in a private WhatsApp Group, denying “the publication on social networks
les”, pointing out that it was an accidental event that dates back to 2018, if
well “they have already been eliminated”.

In this case, the presumed diffusion of images of third parties in a particular way, will not be
can impute to the claimed entity, regardless of the vagueness in the claim
presented in terms of the manner and date in which the described events occurred.

In accordance with what was stated by the parties, the events could have occurred
cer at the beginning of the year 2018, being prescribed at the time of presentation of the
claim for having "passed two years from the commission of the same", which
assumes that this specific fact is not going to be prosecuted on the basis of the foregoing.
unto

The proven facts suppose an administrative infraction typified in the

article 83.5 letters b) RGPD.

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, treating-
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

IV

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation provides
ne in your art. 58.2 b) the following:
“2 Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers in-
listed below:
(…)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"

Likewise, article 77 of the LOPDGDD provides the following: “Regime applicable to
certain categories of controllers or processors.

1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:
a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions of
autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the autonomous communities
tónomas and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or dependent
of the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are re-
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
ca, the competent data protection authority will issue a sanction resolution
mentioning them with warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are in-
Enough words for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
result of application.
Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.
4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.
6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity
of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.
When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority,
It will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations.”

The party complained against has proceeded following the indications of this body
to modify some of the "irregularities" of the system in question, as evidenced by
with the change of informative signage (vgr. Doc. Test nº 4 Written allegations), as well
as well as by reinforcing the security measures in relation to the processing of the data obtained.
nested with the system images, so it is not appropriate to propose an additional measure
any, without prejudice to the declaration of the described infraction.

The RGPD introduces the appointment of a Protection Delegate as mandatory.
tion of Data (DPD) by those responsible and in charge in the supposed regulations
two in its article 37.1.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the respondent Entity is reminded that the images
obtained from the camera system must be in the custody of restricted personnel
authorized, and must be transferred to the competent or judicial authority in the
cases described in the regulations in force.

In the case of situations described as "acts of vandalism" the images of
the cameras in question may be made available to the Local Police or their
case transferred to the competent judicial authority, being able with certain guarantees to be
used to prove the presumed authorship of facts constituting an admissible infraction.
nistrativa or criminal offense depending on the case.

Likewise, this Agency can appear at any time in the place
of the facts and proceed to carry out an exhaustive verification of the measures
taken (eg orientation of cameras, availability of form(s), measures

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

technical and organizational measures adopted, etc.), taking for granted that the
measures widely exposed to this effect.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SANCTION the entity CITY COUNCIL R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1, for
an infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD and Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD, with a warning, without the imposition of additional measures.
them.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to R.R.R. CITY COUNCIL.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-171221

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

