09.08.2022  
Sanction for GDPR Violation  
       
The National Supervisory Authority has completed in  
June 2022 an investigation into the operator CDI  
Transport Intern și Internațional SRL and found  
a violation of the provisions of art. 58 para. (1) lit. a) and  
e) and art. 12 para. (1) of the General Regulation  
on Data Protection.  
As such, the operator was sanctioned  
administratively:  
 - with a fine of 34,630.40 lei (equivalent  
to 7,000 EURO) for violating the provisions of art. 58  
para. (1) lit. a) and e) of the General Regulation  
on Data Protection;  
 - with a warning for violating the provisions of art.  
12 para. (1) of the General Regulation on  
Data Protection.  
The investigation was initiated following a  
notification indicating that the company's website  
lacked information regarding  
the method of collecting personal data, regarding the rights  
provided in art. 15-22  
of the General Regulation on Data Protection that  
data subjects benefit from, regarding how  
to exercise these rights, and also regarding  
the fact that the operator has the obligation to inform  
data subjects in the event of a breach of  
personal data security.  
During the investigation conducted, due to  
the fact that the operator did not provide the information  
requested by our institution within the legal  
deadline, a violation of the provisions of art. 58 para.  
(1) lit. (a) and (e) of the General Regulation on  
Data Protection was found.  
At the same time, it was noted that the operator CDI Transport  
Intern și Internațional SRL did not ensure clear,  
complete, and correct information for the data subjects whose  
personal data is processed by  
the company, as it did not provide all  
the information required by the provisions of art. 12-22 of  
the General Regulation on Data Protection, such  
as those regarding the purpose of processing and  
the legal basis, the identity and contact details of  
the operator, the period for which the data will be stored  
or the criteria used to determine  
this period, and the conditions for exercising  
the rights. As such, a violation of  
the provisions of art. 12 para. (1) of the General  
Regulation on Data Protection was found.  
At the same time, a corrective measure was ordered for the operator,  
ensuring the information of data subjects through the communication  
in a concise, transparent, intelligible, and easily accessible form of  
all the information provided by art. 12 of  
the General Regulation on Data Protection.  
 
Legal and Communication Department  
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.