1/7

 File No.: EXP202201475

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claiming party) dated January 31, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. claims her-
tion is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The
The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

“has installed on a farm of which the defendant is co-owner, two cameras
video surveillance cameras that, due to their location and orientation, are likely to capture
images of the claimant's home, as well as of the public thoroughfare, without having
authorization to do so” (folion 1).

It provides images of the location of the cameras and a map of the affected areas.

from Annex I).

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the party claimed on fe-
date 02/07/22 and 04/28/22, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency
within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: After consulting the database of this Agency on 03/15/22, the
first response to the transfer carried out in a timely manner in accordance with the
terms of the LPAC (Law 39/2015, October 1), where it confirms the presence of the
cameras on the property you own.

It exposes the bad relationship with the claimant, considering that the claim
obeys a spurious purpose, there being various Complaints among them, due to
acts of vandalism and of a diverse nature.

Request the File of the Procedure and that in turn a new one be opened against

the complaining party for facts similar to those under analysis.

FOURTH: On April 30, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LO-
PDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FIFTH: On 05/16/22, a new letter was received from the defendant providing various
These photographs (Annex I) in relation to the facts that are the subject of the claim.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

SIXTH: On August 16, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 13 of the GDPR, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

SEVENTH: Notification of the aforementioned initiation agreement in accordance with the established regulations
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the claimed party submitted a written
of allegations in which, in summary, he stated the following:

- That the only thing that this camera registers is my property (as already sent to
your request), and the part of your patio that you could reach, is protected by a
concealment mesh, as can clearly be seen in the photo itself (...).

- Simply enough that they will review the documentation provided by the

May 16 issued by patrimony to see that everything it affirms is a lie (...)

- That she also informed this agency that on September 29, both she and
your partner are summoned to go to court in court no. 2 of Cartagena,
to answer for a crime for which I have been denounced, theft of
the informative signs of the presence of security cameras. and other damage to me
property (…)".

EIGHTH: On 09/15/22, the collaboration of the Security Forces and Corps is requested.
Security who, displaced to the scene of the events, meet with the
claimed, who agrees to freely show them the monitors, arguing that the
informative posters are continuously torn down by the complaining party,
showing a copy of the Complaint to the corresponding Investigating Court.

It is additionally verified that there are several times that they have had to
moved to the scene, due to continuous neighborhood problems between the parties.

Documentary evidence is added (Annex I), attaching a photograph of the only poster

that currently exists informing that it is a video-surveilled area.

NINTH: On 12/14/22, the “Proposal for Resolution” is issued considering
the file of the procedure was correct since it was not proven that the facts
exposed constitute an administrative offense within the framework of data protection,
being notified by electronic means stating as "Delivered".

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 01/31/22, a claim is received through which the
as main fact the following:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

“has installed on a farm of which the defendant is co-owner, two cameras
video surveillance cameras that, due to their location and orientation, are likely to capture
images of the claimant's home, as well as of the public thoroughfare, without having
authorization to do so” (folion 1).

Provide images of the location of the cameras and a map of the affected areas
Annex I).

Second. It is identified as the main responsible B.B.B., who does not deny the
installation of the camera, although it considers that the claim is due to a situation
conflict over issues related to land ownership.

Third. The Security Forces and Bodies accredit the presence of at
least one informative poster, noting that they are stolen by the neighbor
next, having denounced the facts to the nearest Investigating Court.

Room. There is no accredited record of obtaining images of the property of the
claimant, nor has "data processing" been carried out outside the cases permitted by
the law.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each authori-
quality of control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulations
comments dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sisidario, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

In the present case, the claim dated 01/31/22 is examined by means of
gave from which the presence of a badly oriented camera is transferred without just cause
that may affect the processing of data by third parties.

The art. 5.1 c) GDPR provides the following: Personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are processed ("data minimization").

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, certifying that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative poster
tive, indicating the purposes and person responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit thereof without just cause.

Neither with this type of device can you obtain an image(s) of public space.
since this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the State
tado.

It should be remembered that even if it is a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimate
measured by it in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining
images of public space and/or traffic of third parties, outside the cases allowed in
the normative.

The purpose of this type of device must be the security of the property and
its inhabitants, avoiding the affectation of the rights of third parties who are intimidated
two with the same

II

On 09/13/22, this Agency received a written statement of allegations from the claimant.
declaring ownership of the road, as well as a bad relationship for various
reasons with the claimant, some of which have been prosecuted to date.

The defendant does not deny being responsible for the installation of the cameras, if
well these are provided with a privacy mask which prevents the affectation of the
area owned by the claimant, limiting its capture to space owned by the claimant.
larity.

It also states that the claimant has been denounced for "the abduction of
reiterated of the informative posters "reason for which they are located in judicial headquarters
in Court No. 2 (Cartagena).

Focusing the matter on the area of competence of this body, which is not
other than the presence of the cameras and, where appropriate, the hypothetical affectation of the area
exclusive to third parties, the allegations made allow us to point out the absence of affectation
transfer to the claimant's area, whose data will only be processed in the event of entering
in the private area of the defendant.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

The various conflicts described, providing a partial copy of a judgment in
where a conviction for theft against the claimant is embodied, justifies the presence of the
device(s) in question, otherwise a defenseless situation would result.
pressure on the claimed party who would be at the mercy of sneak attacks or acts of vandalism.
repeatedly, the device fulfilling a deterrent function against the
behaviors described.

Any other question about the “ownership” of the land exceeds the general framework.
potential of this Agency, and must be resolved in the appropriate judicial seat, not bas-
using the mere hypotheses of the claimant to undermine the presumption of innocence
of the respondent, whose device(s) is oriented to land on his or her private property,
as long as the contrary is not proven.

In relation to the absence of billboards, the factual account is corroborated by the
Security Forces and Corps (Civil Guard-Murcia Command) by Official Letter
dated 10/10/22 displaced to the scene of the events that provide photographic evidence
of at least one poster, indicating that the defendant has denounced the facts and is in
process of a new placement of informative posters.

This body has pronounced widely on the condemnation of acts van-
dalic of any nature, allowing the presence of recording devices
that even allow a modulation in the bad neighborhood relations, having to
the images obtained may be transferred to the Security Forces and Bodies or
Court of Investigation closest to the place of the facts.

IV.

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when a proof of accreditation of the facts has not been obtained and verified.
crimes that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
tor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its various manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and an adversarial procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charges or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the accuser, without
that no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the body
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning Law and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

manifestations, is conditioned to the set of evidence and a procedure
contradictory in which one's own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no sanction may be imposed based on the
guilt of the accused if there is no probative activity, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV.

Based on the allegations put forward and the evidence provided, it should be noted that there has been no
verified an orientation of the camera(s) object of claim towards the property
private of the claimant, nor has any "data processing" been verified, as well as
the presence of informative poster(s) is verified, reason that justifies the proposal of
Archive of this procedure.

Both parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake,
should avoid the instrumentalization of this body in matters of
neighborhood disputes, which must be settled in the courts
timely.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction in the matter that we
occupies.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-181022

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

