DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Nottinghamshire Police in accordance with Schedule 13(2)(c) of the Data 
Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) in respect of certain infringements of the 
DPA 2018.   
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Nottinghamshire 
Police in respect of the following infringements of the DPA 2018: 
 

•  Section 40 Data Protection Act 2018 which states that “The sixth 

data protection principle is that personal data processed for any of 
the law enforcement purposes must be so processed in a manner 
that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures (and, in this 
principle, “appropriate security” includes protection against 
unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, 
destruction or damage).” 
 

•  Section 56 of the Data Protection Act 2018 which states that “Each 
controller must implement appropriate technical and organisational 
measures to ensure, and to be able to demonstrate, that the 
processing of personal data complies with the requirements of this 
Part. (2) Where proportionate in relation to the processing, the 
measures implemented to comply with the duty under subsection 
(1) must include appropriate data protection policies. (3)The 
technical and organisational measures implemented under 
subsection (1) must be reviewed and updated where necessary.” 
 

•  Section 57(1) of the Data Protection Act 2018 which states that 

“Each controller must implement appropriate technical and 
organisational measures which are designed (a) to implement the 
data protection principles in an effective manner, and (b) to 
integrate into the processing itself the safeguards necessary for that 
purpose.” 

•  Section 66(1) of the Data Protection Act 2018 which states that 
“Each controller and each processor must implement appropriate 
technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security 
appropriate to the risks arising from the processing of personal 
data.” 

1 

 

 

 

The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
The breach in this case was an unauthorised disclosure of the personal 
data of witnesses via a police officer’s unredacted statement on the CPS 
Digital Case Management system. The evidence has revealed that in this 
instance, the cause of the disclosure of the personal data of witnesses 
was the failure to ensure the adequate redaction of the data before 
disclosing this to the CPS.  
 
The evidence has further revealed that this failure was due to a lack of 
proper redaction and/or disclosure training. Therefore it would be 
reasonably foreseeable that there could be officers completing redaction 
and disclosure without proper training.

 

In addition to this more generally Nottinghamshire Police had no oversight 
over whether policies regarding redaction and data protection were 
accessed or understood by officers, instead relying on emails from heads 
of departments to officers to alert them of any changes in the policy. 
Data Protection training was mandatory during induction but there was no 
oversight over whether this was completed and Nottinghamshire Police 
are unable to say whether the officers involved in this breach had 
completed the training. Nottinghamshire Police stated that the completion 
rate for Data Protection training from 1 December 2020 to 1 December 
2022 was 15.85%. 
Therefore Nottinghamshire Police failed to ensure appropriate security of 
the personal data, using appropriate technical or organisational measures 
in line with Section 40, 56, 57(1) and 66 of DPA18. 
 
Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that human error 
contributed in part to the breach, there was no actual harm caused to the 
data subjects or any effect on the outcome of the trial. 
 
 
Remedial steps taken by Nottinghamshire Police 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by Nottinghamshire Police in the light of this incident. In particular 
Nottinghamshire Police worked with the CPS to remove and retrieve the 
data and steps were taken to ensure the safety of the data subjects 
affected. It is also noted that in order to prevent a recurrence of the 
incident Nottinghamshire Police undertook a review of the department’s  

 

2 

policies and procedures and will be implementing a SOP in respect of this 
process. During this process the Information Management Unit (IMU) 
identified that additional data protection and disclosure guidance would be 
beneficial to the whole organisation. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to Nottinghamshire Police in relation to the  
infringements of sections of the DPA 2018 set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that Nottinghamshire Police should take 
certain steps to ensure its compliance with DPA 2018. With particular 
reference to section 40 of the DPA 2018, the following steps are 
recommended: 
 

1.  Consider providing explicit redaction training to employees involved 

in the disclosure or redaction of evidence. 
 

2.  Review data protection training schedules and systems to ensure 
that adequate monitoring is in place in order to improve levels of 
compliance and completion.  
 

3.  Consider incorporating anonymised examples of incidents into data 
protection training to raise awareness of the potential for breaches 
to occur, with particular attention being given to their inclusion in 
departments where such incidents have occurred. 
 

4.  Ensure that the collective learnings from data breaches are shared 

across the whole force, particularly if the type of processing is 
common across areas. 
 

5.  Complete the implementation of the Standard Operating Procedure, 

dissemination of guidance and mandatory NCALT Data Protection 
Training. 

 

 

3 

