1/5

Procedure No.: PS/00066/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before
GARISOAIN COUNCIL, by virtue of a claim filed by Ms. A.A.A.
(hereinafter, the claimant) and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 20, 2018, you have an entry in this Agency claim
formulated by Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) stating the exposure in
the bulletin board of the Council of Garisoain (Navarra), of a document in which
There is a list of fourteen people with their corresponding DNI numbers and
signatures, among which is yours. In addition, it was placed on June 10,
2018 and continues as of the date of the claim, it is located on a public street, for which
Anyone who passes by has access to it.

SECOND: On December 10, 2018 and January 15, 2019, the
transfer of the claim presented by the claimant to the Council of Garisoain for
proceed to its analysis and respond to the claimant and this Agency in a
month, both notifications being returned by the postal service by
impossibility of delivery, due to absent in delivery.

Previously, on September 27, 2018, the City Council of
Guesalaz, in whose answer they state that the infraction had been committed by the
Garisoain Council, which is a totally independent entity.

THIRD: On February 22, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to article 5 of the
LOPDGDD typified in art. 83.5 section a) of the RGPD and classified as very serious
in art. 72.1.i) of the LOPDGDD, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 of the
GDPR being notified by the postal service on March 1, 2019.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On July 20, 2018, the claimant states the exposure in the
notice board of the Council of Garisoain (Navarra), of a document in which
There is a list of fourteen people with their corresponding DNI numbers and
signatures, among which is yours. In addition, it was placed on June 10,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2018 and continues as of the date of the claim, it is located on a public street, for which
Anyone who passes by has access to it.

SECOND: Garisoain Council has not responded to the request for information
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, nor has it presented allegations to the
agreement to initiate this proceeding, despite the repeated transfer of the
requirement made by this Agency.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

 II

Article 5, section 1, letter f) RGPD “Principles related to treatment”

provides that the personal data will be:

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational (<<integrity and confidentiality>>).

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment" provides that:

1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and

permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data

quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness

of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

 
2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3/5

3.Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

 
4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States.

Article 5 of the LOPDGDD "Duty of confidentiality" provides that:
1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all the
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment.

III

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers, among which is the power to impose fines, in the
in the event of an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD.

Article 58 section 2 GDPR provides the following:

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case.

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9 “is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of
€20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount
at a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

above, opting for the highest amount, and for prescription purposes, it is qualified
very serious in art. 72.1 of the LOPDGDD.

In the present case, it is taken into account that the exposure on the bulletin board
announcements of the Council of Garisoain (Navarra), of a document with character data
staff may involve an omission of the duty to adopt or observe the measures
technical and organizational that guarantee the security of said data, avoiding its
theft loss or improper access; fact that motivated the beginning of the present
penalty procedure.

In this specific case, the denounced party must prove that it has adopted
a series of appropriate measures to guarantee the security and confidentiality of the
data.

On the other hand, it should be noted that the seventh additional provision of the
LOPDGDD regulates the "Identification of interested parties in notifications by
means of announcements and publications of administrative acts” and establishes the
Next:

"1. When it is necessary to publish an administrative act containing
personal data of the affected party, it will be identified by its name and
surnames, adding four random numerical figures of the national document of
identity, foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document.
When the publication refers to a plurality of affected these random figures
they should alternate.

When it comes to notification through advertisements, particularly in the
assumptions referred to in article 44 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, will be identified
to the affected party exclusively by means of the complete number of his national document
identity card, foreign identity number, passport or equivalent document.

When the affected party lacks any of the documents mentioned in
the two previous paragraphs, the affected party will be identified only by his
Name and surname. In no case should the name and surnames be published in a
together with the complete number of the national identity document, number of
foreign identity, passport or equivalent document.

2. In order to prevent risks for victims of gender violence, the Government
will promote the development of a collaboration protocol that defines procedures
insurance of publication and notification of administrative acts, with the participation of
the bodies with competence in the matter.”

Given that in this case the actions of the entity denounced
falls under section 1) of this additional provision, it would be convenient for
hereinafter adopt the content of the publications as provided in this
provision.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

5/5

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to WARN the COUNCIL OF GARISOAIN, by the
infringement of article 5.1. f) of the RGPD, in relation to article 5 of the LOPDGDD;
typified in art. 83.5 section a) of the RGPD, ordering that it proceed under the
established in article 58.2 letter b) RGPD.

SECOND: TO REQUEST the GARISOAIN COUNCIL to remove from the notice board
announcements of the Council of Garisoain (Navarra), the document with character data
personnel object of this procedure; in addition to adopting and observing the measures
technical and organizational measures that guarantee the security of the data, avoiding its
theft loss or improper access; fact that motivated the beginning of the present
penalty procedure; having to inform this Agency within a period of
month, and henceforth adjust the content of these publications to the provisions of the
seventh additional provision of the LOPDGDD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the GARISOAIN COUNCIL.

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 114.1 c) of
the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

