

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing through the ePortal
Czech Social Security Administration


The inspection was launched on the basis of the Office's Inspection Plan for 2019 and examined the processing of personal data in connection with the provision of electronic services by public administration bodies and in the provision of services through the ePortal operated by the Czech Social Security Administration. The CSSA is a social security body whose competence is regulated by special legal regulations. In specified cases, within the scope of its authorization, it provides online electronic services in the form of providing services of the CSSS ePortal application, an information and communication interface system, enabling the client to obtain specific information and services of the CSSS remotely online through access from the public Internet communication network. At the same time, it provides secure viewing of selected data recorded in the CSSS, enables and offers interactive forms and useful online services that allow CSSS clients to communicate online with the CSSS, but also with district social security administrations. The ePortal was introduced as an Internet self-service, an application that facilitates communication with the CSSS for clients, the transfer of information between the CSSS client and the CSSS itself, including personal data of ePortal clients. It also includes an introduction to some institutes that are not completely known to the public, if they are related to the control, so that the public can get a comprehensive impression of the information and know what it was actually about.

The inspection did not reveal a violation of the administrator's duties. The inspectors assessed whether the processing of personal data, which was the subject of the inspection, takes place in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, according to which the controller of personal data must always have a legitimate legal title. Therefore, the auditors evaluated the detected situation in such a way that the auditee did not violate the obligation set out in Article 6, paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, i.e. that the processing of personal data is based on the legal authorization of the auditee regulated by special legal regulations.

The auditors further focused on assessing the fulfillment of the obligation referred to in Article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in connection with the provision of information, within the scope of Articles 13 and 14 of this Regulation, and evaluated the established situation in such a way that the auditee did not violate the obligations set out in Article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, nor within the scope of Articles 13 and 14 of this Regulation, i.e. that the information obligation is fulfilled by the inspected.

The inspectors also evaluated the fulfillment of the obligation set out in Articles 15-23 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. According to these provisions, the data subject has the right of access to personal data, i.e. the right to request and obtain relevant information about the processing of his personal data, as well as the right to object. The inspectors evaluated the detected situation in such a way that the inspected party did not violate the obligation set out in Articles 15-23 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, i.e. that it provides data subjects with the right to access personal data.

In addition, the obligations according to Article 28 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 were evaluated, i.e. whether the controlled person uses the services of a processor and whether he has concluded a relevant contract, if the processor is not specified by a specific law. After evaluating the content of the submitted contracts, the inspectors concluded that the cooperation between the administrator and the processor is set up in a way that meets the requirements of Article 28, paragraphs 2 and 3 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, which also provides a prerequisite for the conclusion that there is no violation of the basic obligations expressed in paragraph 1 of the mentioned provision of the regulation.

The inspectors also verified the fulfillment of the obligation that follows from Article 30, paragraph 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, i.e. the obligation to keep records of processing activities. The inspection revealed that the inspected in the position of administrator processed activity records.

The inspection did not reveal any breach of obligations.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Municipalities and state administration > Inspection of personal data processing via ePortalView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



