The Data Protection Commission (DPC) has made some changes to our website, www.dataprotection.ie  
While you will still find the same content that was available on the previous version of the site, the changes we have made will make it easier to find and navigate information and guidance on your individual rights and organisation obligations under data protection law.

Your Data. Here you will find information on your data protection rights and how to exercise those rights, as well our guidance on Data Protection Basics which aims to address some of the most common questions about data protection law.
For Organisations contains information for organisations on their obligations under data protection law, including new guidance on GDPR Certification.
Resources brings together all of the guidance produced by the DPC for both individuals and organisations; including guidance documents, podcasts, blogs, statutory reports and case studies. Under Law you will find information on data protection legislation, judgments and DPC decisions exercising corrective powers made under the Data Protection Act 2018.
Who We Are gives you information about the DPC.
News and media has all the latest news about the DPC.
Data Protection Officers is a new dedicated section for Data Protection Officers, bringing together the most relevant  information on our website in a centralised location to assist DPOs in their roles.
If you have a query or are looking for information that is pre-GDPR you will find it in the top banner on the website, beside contact us and the search function.  

It’s important to note that if you have linked to any webpages on www.dataprotection.ie in a document or on a website, these links may have changed and may no longer work as a result of the website changes.
Individuals and organisations can still contact the DPC using the webforms, which you can find on the homepage under Take Action, or by clicking Contact Us at the top of the website.
If you do experience any difficulty with the website or can’t find the information you are looking for, you can contact us here.
