  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  11/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Ireland regarding the approval of the 
requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

 

Adopted on 25 May 2020 

 

Adopted 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary of the facts ....................................................................................................................... 4 

ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the IE accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies ...... 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS .......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ................................................................................................................ 6 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST .................................................................................................... 7 

EXPERTISE ......................................................................................................................... 7 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................... 8 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING........................................................................... 8 

COMMUNICATING WITH THE IE SA ................................................................................. 8 

CODE REVIEW MECHANISMS ........................................................................................... 8 

LEGAL STATUS .................................................................................................................. 9 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................................................ 9 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................. 10 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018. 
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter  “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41 GDPR. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with 
regard to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that 
apply  during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority. 
Even though the GDPR does not directly impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does 
promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance  explaining  the  accreditation  requirements;  and,  finally,  requesting  the  competent  SAs  to 
adopt these requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes. They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term ‘accreditation’. However, article 
41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. There 
are a number of requirements, which  should  be met in order to  satisfy the competent supervisory 
authority to accredit a monitoring body. Code owners are required to explain and demonstrate how 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 

 

Adopted 

3 

their  proposed  monitoring  body  meets  the  requirements  set  out  in  article  41  (2)  GDPR  to  obtain 
accreditation. 

 (4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The Irish Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “IE SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 13 February 2020. 

 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41(2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

4. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1)(p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 

Adopted 

4 

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to ‘encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking into account 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium sized enterprises’ (article 40 (1) GDPR). Therefore, the Board recognises that the requirements 
need  to  work  for  different  types  of  codes,  applying  to  sectors  of  diverse  size,  addressing  various 
interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

IE SA to take further action.  

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the IE SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation.  The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the IE accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all  codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct, 

 
the Board is of the opinion that:  
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

The Board supports the development of voluntary compliance activities, including the drawing up of 
Codes aimed to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR by different sectors of different sizes, 
and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. In this context, the Board supports the 
emphasis made by IE SA on the specific needs of micro, small and medium sized enterprises. 

11. 

The Board notes that IE SA introduced a number of examples that in overall help in the interpretation 
of the draft decision. However, some of the examples are better suited as a requirement, rather than 
as an example. Therefore, the Board recommends the IE SA to revise the draft accordingly.  

12. 

The Board encourages the IE SA to include in the draft accreditation requirements some examples of 
the information or documents that applicants have to submit when applying for accreditation.  

Adopted 

5 

13. 

14. 

15. 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

The  Board  considers  that  there  are  four  areas  where  the  monitoring  body  should  demonstrate  its 
independence:  1) 
legal  and  decision-making  procedures;  2)  financial;  3)  organisational;  4) 
accountability.2 With regards to the IE SA requirements, it seems that the first and the third areas are 
covered by section 1.1, devoted to ‘Structure, Power, and Functions’ and the second area is covered 
by Section 1.2 headed ‘Budget and Resources’. However, the Board notices that there is no reference 
to the fourth area related to accountability. 

In  this  regard,  the  Board  notes  that  the  monitoring  body  should  be  able  to  demonstrate 
“accountability” for its decisions and actions in order to be considered to be independent. The IE SA 
should clarify what kind of evidence is expected from the monitoring body, in order to demonstrate 
its accountability. This could be accomplished through such things as setting out the roles and decision-
making  framework  and  its  reporting  procedures,  and  by  setting  up  policies  to  increase  awareness 
among the personnel about the governance structures and the procedures in place. Thus, the Board 
recommends the IE SA to introduce the above-mentioned requirements related to accountability of 
the monitoring body. 

 Regarding section 1.1.2 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements, which addresses the issue of 
internal monitoring body, the Board is of the opinion that independence should exist not only towards 
the  larger  entity  but  with  respect  to  the  overall  group  structure.  According  to  the  point  65  of  the 
Guidelines, where an internal monitoring body is proposed, there should be separate personnel and 
management, accountability and function from other areas of the organisation. This may be achieved 
in a number of ways, for example, by the use of effective organisational and information barriers and 
separate reporting management structures for the association and monitoring body. The monitoring 
body should be able to act free from instructions and shall be protected from any sort of sanctions or 
interference as a consequence of the fulfilment of its task. In this context, the Board encourages the 
IE SA to better explain this section and  clarify that independence needs to be ensured towards the 
larger entity, in particular the code owner.  

16.  As regards section 1.2.1 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board considers that the 
existence  of  sufficient  financial  and  other  resources  should  be  accompanied  with  the  necessary 
procedures  to  ensure  the  functioning  of  the  code  of  conduct  over  time.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends that the IE SA amend the explanatory note, adding a reference to such procedures.  

17. 

The  Board  underlines  that  the  code  owners  should  be  able  to  demonstrate  that  the  proposed 
monitoring  body  have  adequate  resources  and  personnel  to  carry  out  its  tasks  in  an  appropriate 
manner. In particular, resources should be  proportionate to the expected number and size of code 
members, as well as the complexity or degree of risk of the relevant data processing (see paragraph 
73  of  the  Guidelines).  The  Board  notes  that  in  this  context,  section  1.2.4  of  the  IE  SA’s  draft 
requirements lacks some criteria that should be used to measure the adequacy of monitoring body’s 
resources and personnel. Therefore, the Board encourages the IE SA to add some additional details in 
the  draft  requirements,  such  as  the  expected  number  and  size  of  code  members,  as  well  as  the 
complexity or degree of risk of the relevant data processing.  

2 The EDPB developed these areas in more detail in the Opinion 9/2019 on the Austrian SA draft accreditation 
requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR. 

 

Adopted 

6 

18.  With  regard  to  the  use  of  sub-contractors,  the  Board  notes  that  section  1.2.5  of  the  IE  SA’s  draft 
accreditation requirements state that “the use of subcontractors does not remove the responsibility 
of the monitoring body”. Indeed, the monitoring body should be the ultimate responsible for all the 
decisions taken related to its monitoring function. Therefore, the Board encourages the IE SA to specify 
that,  notwithstanding  the  sub-contractor’s  responsibility  and  obligations,  the  monitoring  body  is 
always the ultimate responsible for the decision-making and for compliance. In addition, the Board is 
of the opinion that, even when subcontractors are used, the monitoring body  shall ensure effective 
monitoring of the services  provided by the contracting entity. The Board recommends the IE SA to 
explicitly add this obligation in the draft accreditation requirements.  

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

19. 

The  Board  recognizes  that  one  of  the  biggest  risks  related  to  the  monitoring  body  is  the  risk  of 
impartiality. The Board notes that such a risk may arise not only from providing services to the code 
members but also from a wide range of activities carried out by the monitoring body vis-à-vis code 
owners (especially in the situation where the monitoring body is an internal one) or other relevant 
bodies  of  the  sector  concerned.  In  this  context,  the  Board  encourages  the  IE  SA  to  reword  the 
requirement in point 2.1 in more general terms and provide additional clarifications and examples of 
situations where there is no conflict of interest. Examples could include, among others, services, which 
are purely administrative or organisational assistance or support activities, which have no influence on 
the impartiality of the monitoring body.  

  EXPERTISE 

20.  With  respect  to  the  explanatory  note  in  section  3  of  the  IE  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements 
(“Expertise”),  the  Board  notes  that,  as  required  by  the  Guidelines,  every  code  owner  has  to 
demonstrate  ‘why  their  proposals  for  monitoring  are  appropriate  and  operationally  feasible’  (see 
paragraph 41 of the Guidelines). In this context, all codes with monitoring bodies will need to explain 
the  necessary  expertise  level  for  their  monitoring  bodies  in  order  to  deliver  the  code’s  monitoring 
activities effectively. To that end, in order to evaluate the expertise level required by the monitoring 
body,  a  code  owner  should,  in  general,  take  into  account  such  factors  as:  the  size  of  the  sector 
concerned, the different interests involved and the risks of the processing activities addressed by the 
code. This would also be important if there are several monitoring bodies, as the code will help ensure 
a uniform application of the expertise requirements for all monitoring bodies covering the same code.  

21.  With  respect  to  section  3.3  of  the  IE  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  and  the  reference  to 
“operational experience, training, and qualifications”, in line with the Guidelines (paragraph 69), the 
Board encourages IE SA to clarify which type of operational experience is required in the text of the 
requirement  itself  (i.e.  experience  in  monitoring  of  compliance,  such  as  in  the  field  of  auditing, 
monitoring, or quality assurance activities). 

22.  As  regards  section  3.4  of  the  IE  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board  considers  that  it 
should be better coordinated with sections 3.1, 3.2 and section 3.3, in order to avoid confusion with 
regard  to  the  scope  of  section  3.4  in  connection  with  the  previous  three.  Therefore,  the  Board 
encourages the IE SA to clarify the relationship between those sections specifying that the monitoring 
body will have to meet the expertise requirements in sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.2 in any circumstances, 
whereas further or specific expertise requirements will only need to be met in case that the code of 
conduct foresees them. 

Adopted 

7 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

23. 

The Board observes that sections 4.2 and 4.3 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements refer to 
the complexity and risks involved, as part of the criteria to be taken into account in the assessment of 
the  established  procedures  to  monitor  compliance  of  code  members  with  the  Code  and  for  the 
periodic  review  of  the  operations  of  the  code,  respectively.  For  the  sake  of  clarity,  the  Board 
encourages the IE SA to specify that the complexity and the risks refer to the sector concerned and the 
data processing activities to which the code applies.  

24.  With respect to sections from 4.2 to 4.5 of the IE SA’s  draft accreditation requirements, the Board 
considers some clarity could be provided with regard to periodic review. This, as well as the meaning 
of  “periodically”  and  “ad  hoc”  could  be clarified  in  the explanatory  note,  in  particular  by  providing 
examples.  

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

25.  With  respect  to  the  explanatory  note  introduced  at  the  beginning  of  section  5  of  the  IE  SA’s  draft 
accreditation requirements (“Transparent Complaint Handling”) and its last sentence, the Board is of 
the opinion that it should be specified what are the ‘monitoring body’s other monitoring activities’. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the IE SA to clarify that this term refers to the monitoring activities 
other than formal decisions.  

  COMMUNICATING WITH THE IE SA 

26.  According to the explanatory note provided in section 6 of the IE SA’S draft accreditation requirements, 
‘a proposed framework for any monitoring body needs to allow for the effective communication  of 
any actions carried out by the monitoring body in respect of monitoring of compliance with the Code 
to the DPC’. In this context, the Board is of the opinion that it should be clarified that not every single 
action carried out by the monitoring body shall be communicated to the IE SA. The Board underlines 
that communicating of every single action may create a risk of overloading the IE SA with an excessive 
amount of information. The same comment applies to section 6.2 and the mention of the “outcome 
of  any  audit,  review  or  investigation  of  a  code  member’s  compliance  with  the  code”  as  well  as  to 
section 6.3 and the reference to “procedure for notifying the DPC of any complaints made against it“. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the IE SA to amend the draft accordingly and specify that in general 
not all the complaints and not every single action, audit, review or investigation vis-à-vis code members 
is communicated to IE SA.  

27. 

Still with regard to section 6.2 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the example provided 
seems  to  imply  that  the  documentation  regarding  “any  audit,  review  or  investigation  of  a  code 
member’s compliance with the code” or “any review of previously exercised exclusions or suspension 
from  the  code”  will  be  made  available  to  the  IE  SA  upon  request.  However,  from  the  text  of  the 
requirement itself, it is unclear whether the notification to the IE SA will take place at the monitoring 
body’s initiative (i.e. irrespective of any request by the SA) or at the request of the IE SA. Therefore, 
the Board encourages the IE SA to amend the example in order to clarify this issue. 

  CODE REVIEW MECHANISMS 

28. 

The Board notes that section 7.3 of the draft requirements states that the monitoring body will apply 
and implement updates, amendments and/or extensions to the Code. Since the updating of the code 
of  conduct  is  responsibility  of  the  code  owner,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that,  in  order  to  avoid 
confusion, a reference to the code owner should be made. As an example, section 7.3 of the IE’s draft 

Adopted 

8 

accreditation  requirements  could  be  amended  as  follows:  “The  monitoring  body  shall  apply  and 
implement updates, amendments, and/or extensions to the Code, as decided by the code owner”. The 
Board encourages the IE SA to amend the draft accordingly.  

 

  LEGAL STATUS 

29.  As regards section 8 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that in the draft 
accreditation requirements there is no provision that would explicitly state that the monitoring body 
must  be  located  within  the  European  Economic  Area.  The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  monitoring 
bodies require an establishment in the EEA. This is to ensure that they can fully uphold data subject 
rights, deal with complaints and be effectively supervised by the competent SA, so that to guarantee 
the enforceability of the GDPR. The Board recommends that the IE SA require that the monitoring body 
has an establishment in the EEA. 

30.  According to requirement 8.2 of the IE SA’s draft accreditation requiements, the monitoring body shall 
have  financial  resources  to  ensure  that  fines  per  Article  83(4)(c)  GDPR  can  be  imposed  on  the 
monitoring body and met. In the Board’s opinion, financial capacity shall not prevent small or medium 
monitoring  bodies  from  being  accredited.  It  is  enough  to  have  a  legal  capability  of  being  fined. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the IE SA to either delete this requirement or to soften the wording 
and refer to the monitoring body’s responsibilities in general. Moreover, the third paragraph of the 
example as provided in section 8.3 of the draft requirements should be amended accordingly, and the 
Board encourages the IE SA to do so. 

31.  At the same time, the Board considers that the existence of sufficient financial and other resources 
should  be  accompanied  with  the  necessary  procedures  to  ensure  the  functioning  of  the  code  of 
conduct  over  time.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  that  the  IE  SA  amend  the  explanatory  note, 
adding in it a reference to long-term financing.  

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

32. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Irish Supervisory Authority create a risk of an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

33.  As general remarks, the Board recommends that the IE SA: 

1.  amend the draft to make a clear distinction between examples and requirements. 

34.  Regarding ‘independence’ the Board recommends that the IE SA:  

1. 

include a reference to the accountability of the monitoring body; 

2. 

3. 

in section 1.2.1 include a reference to the procedures that ensure the functioning of the 
code of conduct over time; 

in section 1.2.5 include obligation on monitoring body to ensure effective monitoring of 
the services provided by its sub-contractors. 

35.  Regarding ‘legal status’ the Board recommends that the IE SA: 

1.  require in section 8 that the monitoring body has an establishment in the EEA. 

Adopted 

9 

  FINAL REMARKS 

36. 

This opinion is addressed to the Irish supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to Article 
64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

37.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the IE SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within  two  weeks  after  receiving  the  opinion,  whether  it  will  amend  or  maintain  its  draft  decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

38. 

The IE SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

10 

