1/8

Procedure No.: PS/00102/2021

RESOLUTION
 

 OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 22, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the association
HAZTEOIR.ORG with NIF G83068403 which is transcribed below:
<<
Procedure no.: PS/00102/2021
926-240120

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The Arcopoli association (hereinafter, Arcopoli) dated November 11
2019 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the association HazteOir.Org with NIF G83068403 (in what
successively, HazteOír).

Arcopoli states that it is an association that defends the rights of people
LGTB, files a claim against HazteOír because it has published a brochure against
of sexual education actions in schools, which on the second page
includes images and the names of three people, which they understand to be contrary to
regulations on data protection.

Together with the claim they provide:



Booklet with the photographs and the names of the three people.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant of the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is HazteOír.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

The background information is the following:
Admission file E/11775/2019.
On December 13, 2019, the claim was transferred to Hazte Oír
requesting factual information.
On January 10, 2020, it is received in this Agency, with registration number,
001034/2020 brief of allegations sent by HazteOír stating that after
knowing the facts, the immediate withdrawal from circulation of the
brochures object of claim and to the edition and new publication of the same
editing the image and deleting the reference to the names of the people whose
information is highlighted in the complaint, always as a sign of good faith on the part of
Make yourself heard and in the spirit of not bothering them.
Therefore, the data related to the image (the photograph in question) and the data
identifiers (name and surname) related to the three people participating in
sex education talks in schools have been modified in the
new brochure published by HazteOír.
Requested by this Agency a copy of the modified brochure referred to in the letter of
allegations to the transfer of the claim, dated July 20, 2020 is received
in this Agency, with registration number 025514/2020, answer letter
stating that for the new brochure they have adopted the measure of eliminating
completely the photographs and the names that have motivated this claim.
Attach to the document, a copy of the new brochure in which the extremes are verified
stated in your reply.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of the
Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

II

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

(…)”

III

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD provide the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

  The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
association HazteOír, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

4/8

actions carried out, it follows that he processed the data without legitimacy to do so by
publish photos and names of three people from the Arcopoli association.

In this sense, HazteOír recognizes the facts and has proceeded in the new
brochure to completely eliminate the photographs and names that have motivated this
penalty procedure.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to be imposed in
the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance
with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

v

As aggravating criteria:

- Basic personal identifiers are affected (names and

photographs of three people) (article 83.2 g).

As mitigating criteria:

- The degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy

to the infraction and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infraction, (83.2 f).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD,
with respect to the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 6
allows to set a penalty of 5,000 euros, (five thousand euros).

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the

Spanish Data Protection Agency.

HE REMEMBERS:

START: PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE for the HAZTEOIR.ORG ASSOCIATION
with NIF G83068403, for Violation of article 6 of the RGPD regarding the treatment
of personal data, punishable in accordance with the provisions of art. 83.5 of the cited
Regulation.

APPOINT: Mr. R.R.R. as Instructor, and Ms. S.S.S. as secretary, indicating that any-
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of art 23
and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LR-
JSP).

INCORPORATE: to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the international claim
put by the claimant and their documentation, the documents obtained and generated
by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection during the investigation phase.
nes, all of them part of this administrative file.

WHAT: for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be 5,000 euros (five thousand euros), without prejudice to what is
result of the investigation of this file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

NOTIFY: this agreement to start sanctioning proceedings to ASSOCIATION
HAZTEOIR.ORG with NIF G83068403, granting a hearing period of ten days
able to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent in this case to 1,000 euros. with the app
of this reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case
to 1,000 euros. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be established in
4,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 3,000 euros (three thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, you must make it effective by depositing it in account no.
ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the
reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD. By
Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.>>

THIRD: Notification of the Start Agreement on April 6, 2021. On April 15
of 2021, HazteOír has proceeded to pay the penalty in the amount of 4,000 euros
making use of the reduction provided for in the Start Agreement, stating: “We have
applied the reduction for payment in the voluntary period, but not the recognition of
guilt (because we do not recognize it)”

FOURTH: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Home Agreement.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It is known that HazteOír has published a brochure against the actions of
sexual education in schools, which on the second page includes images and
the names of three people.

SECOND: HazteOír has immediately withdrawn the brochures from circulation
object of claim and therefore, the data related to the image (the photograph in
question) and the identification data (name and surnames) related to the three
people participating in sex education talks in schools have
been modified in the new brochure published by HazteOír.
THIRD: It is stated in the new brochure that they have adopted the measure of eliminating
completely the photographs and the names that have motivated this claim.
FOURTH: It is recorded that the Start Agreement was notified on April 6, 2021, they proceeded
on April 15, 2021 to the payment of the penalty in the amount of 4,000 euros using
of the reduction foreseen in the Start Agreement, stating: “We have applied the
reduction for payment in the voluntary period, but not the recognition of
guilt (because we do not recognize it)”

FIFTH: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Home Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00102/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ASOCIACIÓN HAZTEOIR.ORG with
NIF G83068403.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

