 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

June 24, 2020

 
 
  Warning from the LfDI has been heard - Zoom is making improvements
 
The video conferencing service Zoom is on the move. In April, the State Commissioner
for data protection and freedom of information Baden-Württemberg (LfDI), Dr. Ste
fan Brink, on the occasion of a security incident at a Freiburg school before the
ment of service in school lessons. The response to this was gratifying
not only schools, but also Zoom.
 
In intensive discussions between the LfDI and Zoom, the serious security
Security gaps, for which Zoom has been criticized several times in the past
stood, as well as the tracking used and questions from the user
friendliness. In the course of the discussions, Zoom clearly showed the will to improve
improvement of his service - and followed this up with deeds:
Compared to the LfDI, Zoom was able to make a change in handling data security
make security issues credible and has since done this through several
led updates to version Zoom 5.0. These include improvements in
Zer- and data protection-friendly default settings ("Privacy by Default"). It's been like that since
the last update of the video conference system, the establishment of a waiting room
as well as the password-protected dial-in. As a result, user-
related data protection problems counteracted. A use of the data from
Users (including the user IDs of their end devices) for economic purposes
is now expressly excluded from Zoom. To what extent data on company
from the point of view of the LfDI, however, still needs to be clarified.
ren. It was also announced that video communication will in future - at least
in the paid business customer version - end-to-end encrypted.
Important for the accessibility of Zoom by its users and for the
determination of the rights of data subjects is also that Zoom, as a company without
approval in Europe has appointed a "representative in the EU".

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

 
"That's a good way that Zoom has taken here," states LfDI Stefan
Brink, "and as the data protection supervisory authority, we take this progress positively
for the record.” Therefore, from the point of view of the LfDI, there is no longer any reason to tell everyone
Schools in Baden-Württemberg to maintain warning issued longer.
 
However, schools and other responsible persons are still responsible for the programs they have initiated
responsible for the processing of personal data and towards the affected
held accountable.
 
"From our point of view, almost all video conferencing systems have
protection still needs to be improved,” continues LfDI Brink. Unreservedly recommended
So far, only BigBlueButton, which is integrated into the learning management provided by the state, can
management software Moodle is integrated. "Here all the data of the teachers and
Pupils under the control of state institutions and are not sent to third-party
companies or service providers outside the scope of European data
protected by intellectual property rights," says Stefan Brink. From the point of view of the LfDI, it is therefore positive
assess that the Ministry of Education has the use and advanced training opportunities
by BigBlueButton for schools in Baden-Württemberg.
 
The sense of responsibility of the users remains decisive: We have to
also in the future take a close look at what data is generated through the use of video conferencing
systems are released. This is especially true for schools that have a high
responsibility for the selection and data processing of the system
carry providers. In particular, you must be familiar with the service you have chosen
conclude an order processing agreement, which the data subjects concerned
protects students effectively. In particular, schools should carefully consider whether
processing of the data is intended for the service provider's own purposes or
which is dealt with, for example, with data deletion. For the transfer of
video image and sound of the students from the home environment
Both the student's and the parents' consent are required
lich.
 
 
For more information, see our privacy-friendly recommendations
See options for communication, available at https://www.baden-
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/data-protection-friendly-technical-possibilities-of-
communication/

- 3 -

 
 
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0.
 
Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at
www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.
 
The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.
 
 

 

