1/10

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00064/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 19, 2018, it has an entry in the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection (AEPD) a letter from Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant)
in which it states that VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in what
successively, Vodafone or claimed), entity that has charged a service of
Netflix that had not been hired by the claimant and the company verified that the
service or TV channel was used in the home of another person, since it seems that
had hacked into her spouse's bank account and phone number through
Vodafone in order to register through an email in said
service.

Thus, Vodafone tells them that they have the Netflix service
contracted from February 20, 2018, being the first month free and that they have
been paying for four months of that service without having contracted it. vodafone se
refuses to refund the amount collected so far, that only the one for the month of July
they wouldn't charge it. That both Netflix and Vodafone proceeded to cancel the
service and payment to third parties.

The claimant provides a copy of the following documentation:

1. Request for arbitration before the Consumer Arbitration Board of the Region of

Murcia, dated August 8, 2018, against Vodafone and Netflix.

2. Complaint filed with the General Police Directorate, dated March 8,

3. CD with the recordings of your mobile phone kept with Vodafone and

August 2018.

Netflix.

4. Invoices where you can see the charge of 13.99 euros from Netflix.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant and of which she has had knowledge
Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

The first information requirement was sent electronically on October 16
of 2018 and is recorded as received by Vodafone on the 17th day of the same month and year, as
accredits the document called "Confirmation of the Receipt of the Notification"
of the Citizen Folder.

Vodafone did not respond to the request, so the AEPD reiterated it in order to
to analyze the claim made by the claimant and communicate the decision
to adopt in this regard.

This second informative requirement was sent electronically on 27
November 2018 and is recorded as received by Vodafone on December 4 of the same year at
at 11:40:35, as evidenced by the document called "Confirmation of the
Receipt of the Notification” of the Citizen Folder. Vodafone also did not respond
to the second requirement notified by this Agency.

Through Diligence dated March 14, 2019, it is incorporated into the file
administrative information that regarding the claimed entity appears in the
Mercantile Registry on its subscribed and paid-up capital - amounts to
483,391,632.20 euros- and on the date of commencement of operations -05/27/1994-.

THIRD: On March 22, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1. of
RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD and qualified as an infringement
very serious in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: Once the initial agreement had been notified, Vodofone presented a brief of allegations in
which, in summary, states in the first place that after the notification of the Agreement of
At the beginning, it was found that the allegations that were prepared in response to the
request for information E/7475/2018 due to some type of error that they do not know
were filed with this Agency.

Thus, it proceeded to resolve the claim, which was notified to
the claimant, by means of an attached letter dated December 18, 2018, which
was delivered to your home on February 14, 2019, as stated on the delivery note
of the accompanying Post Office.

In said letter, the claimant was informed that a proceeding had been
manage the cancellation of the Netflix service and to make a payment in your favor for an amount of
67.71 euros for the fees paid for said service. Attach a copy of the note
payment made.

The service appears in their systems as registered on February 20
2018 and as discharged on June 23, 2018, in accordance with the screens
which provide.

They add that the registration in the Netflix service by a third party has not been
responsibility of Vodafone or fruit that information of the spouse has been hacked
of the claimant, through Vodafone.

3/10

On the other hand, they point out that for a client to sign up for one of the
Netflix packages the customer must perform a proactive activity on his part and a
registration with prior authentication. Therefore, the process of signing up for the Netflix service
contains the sufficient and standard security measures in the market, so
Vodafone cannot be held responsible for how its customers safeguard their terminals.

Finally, it states that the dismissal of this case is agreed upon.
file and file of the proceedings, and that subsidiarily, the amount of said
The sanction must be moderate, imposing its minimum amount.

FIFTH: On April 15, 2019, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/07475/2018, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: Subsequently, on May 20 of this year, Vodafone was issued and notified
the Resolution Proposal, for alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified
in article 83.5 of the RGPD, proposing a fine of €40,000.

Vodafone, on June 3, 2019, presented arguments to the Proposal for
Resolution, reiterating the arguments presented throughout the procedure and,
that is to say: that the registration on Netflix by a third party has not been the responsibility of Vodafone
or as a result of the information of the claimant's spouse being hacked, through
of Vodafone: the necessary information and access to the claimant's mobile both
requirements necessary to sign up for the Netflix service, it has clearly been
obtained by a third party without the intervention or responsibility of Vodafone, the registration only
It can be done by the interested party through the platform enabled for this purpose and
using a Vodafone mobile. It is a fundamental requirement that the start of the registration process
is done through a mobile line number registered with Vodafone and have the
terminal where said SIM card is located with that number in hand to
Continue with the registration process.

On the other hand, it points out that for a client to sign up for one of the
Netflix packages the customer must perform a proactive activity on his part and a
registration with prior authentication. Therefore, the process of signing up for the Netflix service
contains the sufficient and standard security measures in the market, so
Vodafone cannot be held responsible for how its customers safeguard their terminals.

It adds that the claimant denounced these facts before the Arbitration Board of
Consumption in Murcia and this, after analyzing the facts, proceeded to file the
proceedings. A copy of the award is attached.

Finally, it states that the dismissal of this case is agreed upon.

record and file of the proceedings.

PROVEN FACTS

1.- The claimed, has gone to charge a Netflix service that had not been
contracted by the claimant and the company verified that the service or TV channel
was used in the home of another person, because apparently they had hacked the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

bank account and phone number of your spouse through Vodafone in order to
to register through an email in said service.

2.- It is known that the Netflix service has been contracted since February 20,
2018, being the first free month and that they have been paying four months of that
service without having contracted it. The defendant refuses to return the amount collected
Until now, only the one for the month of July would not be charged. How much Netflix
such as Vodafone proceeded to cancel the service and the payment to third parties.

3.- This Agency sent two informative requirements to the respondent. The
first of them, was sent electronically on October 16, 2018 and received by the
claimed on the 17th of the same month and year, as evidenced by the document
called “Confirmation of Receipt of Notification” of the Folder
Citizen.

Vodafone did not respond to the request, so the AEPD reiterated it in order to
to analyze the claim made by the claimant and communicate the decision
to adopt in this regard.

This second informative requirement was sent electronically on 27
November 2018 and is recorded as received by Vodafone on December 4 of the same year at
at 11:40:35, as evidenced by the document called "Confirmation of the
Receipt of the Notification” of the Citizen Folder. Vodafone also did not respond
to the second requirement notified by this Agency.

4.- On December 18, 2018, the defendant proceeded to the resolution
of the claim. In said letter, the claimant was informed that a procedure had been
to manage the cancellation of the Netflix service and to make a payment in your favor for an amount
of 67.71 euros for the fees paid for said service.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of the
Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

5/10

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

1 The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that
Vodafone, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since in the first place it did not answer
to the requirements of this Agency, as recognized by the respondent in his writ of
allegations, although he did inform the claimant that he was proceeding to manage the dismissal of the
Netflix service and to make a payment in your favor for the fees paid by said
service.

Secondly, it should be noted that he processed the personal data of the
claimant. Entity that charged a Netflix service that had not been
contracted by the affected party.

The Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National High Court, in cases

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

like the one presented here, has considered that when the owner of the data denies
contracting corresponds the burden of proof to who affirms its existence
the person responsible for the processing of third-party data must collect and keep the
documentation necessary to prove the consent of the holder. We quote, for
all, the SAN of 05/31/2006 (Rec. 539/2004), Fourth Law Basis.

However, and this is essential, Vodafone has not proven that the holder of
the personal data object of treatment will give the consent to the celebration
of a contract with the respondent entity.

In relation to the alleged that the registration in the Netflix service by a third party does not
It has not been the responsibility of Vodafone nor has the information been hacked from the
spouse of the claimant, through Vodafone, and that for a customer to register
in one of the Netflix packages the client must carry out a proactive activity by
your part and a registration with prior authentication. Therefore, the registration process in the
Netflix service contains sufficient and standard security measures in the
market, so Vodafone cannot be held responsible for how its customers
guard their terminals. It should be noted that these assertions are irrelevant.
from the point of view of the assessment that this Agency is responsible for making.

The reason is that Vodafone has fulfilled the inexcusable obligation that
imposes the data protection regulations to prove that you collected and obtained the
consent of the owner of the data for its treatment.

The respondent has not proven that the affected party had granted her
consent, nor has it provided any document or evidence that
evidence, and did not display the minimum diligence required to verify that indeed
his interlocutor was who he claimed to be.

Respect for the principle of legality, before the principle of consent, which is in
the essence of the fundamental right to protection of personal data, requires
that it is accredited that the owner of the data consented or, at least, that the
responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that
extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

Regarding the allegation that the claimant denounced these facts before the
Consumer Arbitration Board in Murcia and this, after analyzing the facts, proceeded to
dossier file.

To this we have to add that, in the foundations of the Arbitration Award,
states that the dispute raised should not be resolved through arbitration by
give two reasons for exclusion:

-

-

 Payments to third parties (Netflix)

Filing of a complaint with the General Directorate of Police (attested
8924/2018).

In this regard, it is interesting to note that the filing of the file by the Board
Arbitration does not affect this procedure, since this Agency is responsible for ensuring

7/10

for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal nature, and Vodafone has not proven that the owner of the personal data
object of treatment gave his consent.

IV

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD in its art. 83.1 and 83.2, when deciding the
imposition of an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case will be
taking into account the aggravating and mitigating factors listed in the article
indicated, as well as any other that may be applicable to the circumstances of the
case.

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:
          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of

the infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the sanction of
fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in article 83.5.a) of the
RGPD for which VODAFONE is responsible, the following are considered concurrent
factors:

1 The merely local scope of the data processing carried out by the claimed party.
2 The purpose of the treatment was reasonable in the hypothesis that the claimed

was legitimized for the treatment carried out.

3 Only one person has been affected by the offending conduct.
4 The damage caused to the affected party by the processing of their data is not very

significant.

5 The duration of the treatment carried out by the respondent has not translated into a

serious harm or damage.

6 There is no evidence that the defendant had acted maliciously or with a

relevant negligence.

7 The respondent did not adopt any measure to correct the effects of the infringement or

responded to the two requirements addressed to it by the AEPD Inspection.

9/10

8 There is an obvious link between the processing of personal data and

the activity carried out by the claimant.

At the same time, it is valued as a mitigating factor that the defendant addressed the affected
before initiating the present procedure and proceeded to manage the cancellation of the service of
Netflix and to make a payment in your favor corresponding to the fees paid by said
service, being discharged on February 20, 2018 and discharged on June 23 of the same year
(more than 4 months).

           

v

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a
violation of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine
€40,000.00 (euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

