 

 

European Union Agency for Cybersecurity 
Ethnikis Antisaseos 72 & Agamemnonos 14, 
Chalandri 15231, Attiki  
Greece   
 
Sent by e-mail only 

Dear Mr. Lepassaar, 

Brussels, 18 November 2021 
Ref: OUT2021-00157 

Thank you for your response to our letter regarding the European Cybersecurity Certification Scheme 
for Cloud  Services (EUCS) and your invitation to work together on the establishment of guidance for 
cloud service providers that would explain to them how to best use the EUCS to meet the cybersecurity 
requirements of  the GDPR. This proposition  will be discussed  thoroughly among the data protection 
authorities and we will come back to you on this topic later on. 

However, for this work to be fruitful, it is necessary that the final certification Scheme is consistent 
with the obligations  laid  down  in  the GDPR and  facilitates the compliance  with the GDPR of cloud 
service providers (CSP) and their clients. 

In this respect, the Schrems II judgement of the CJEU1 is a key issue that shall be addressed by CSPs in 
order to help their clients with the compliance of the processing that they host. This compliance can 
be  reached  in  various  ways,  as  the  EDPB  explained  in  its  Recommendations  on  supplementary 
measures2, including with certain approaches to encryption and key management.  

Therefore, the EDPB considers that at least an assurance level of the EUCS should include appropriate 
specific  criteria  to  ensure  protection  against  threats represented  by  access  from  authorities  not 
subject  to  EU legislation  and  not  offering  a level  of  protection  of  personal  data that  is  essentially 
equivalent to that guaranteed by the GDPR and recalled by the CJEU.  

Offering an assurance level of the EUCS with strong guarantee that the cloud service provider is not 
subject to foreign access incompatible with the GDPR would facilitate the compliance of processing 
activities relying on  cloud  services certified with this  level of assurance. Failing to do so  would be a 
missed opportunity to foster security and compliance across Europe. 

                                                             
1 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A62018CJ0311  
2 https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/recommendations-012020-
measures-supplement-transfer_en  

 

 

We believe that especially such criteria will help ensuring security not only for personal data, but for 
all kinds of information that needs protection against the abovementioned threats. 

We  are ready to  assist  you  already in  the formulation  of  these criteria and are looking  forward to 
continue our fruitful collaboration. 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

