1/6  
  
File No.: EXP202312558  
RESOLUTION OF RIGHTS PROCEDURE  
Having reviewed the complaint registered on August 2, 2023, with this Agency and having carried out the procedural actions provided for in Title VIII of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the following FACTS have been established:  

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complainant) exercised the right of Access against SISTEMAS FINANCIEROS MOVILES S.L. (CREDITOMAS) (hereinafter the respondent), without their request having received the legally established response.  
The complainant states that they requested access to the information regarding the debt claimed by the respondent entity "SISTEMAS FINANCIEROS MOVILES S.L. (CREDITOMAS)" through a request sent to the designated address, without receiving a response in this regard.  
They provide a copy of the access request dated March 8, 2023.  

SECOND: In accordance with Article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), this complaint was forwarded to the respondent for analysis and to inform this Agency within one month of the actions taken to comply with the requirements set forth in data protection regulations.  

THIRD: The result of the transfer procedure indicated in the previous Fact did not allow for the satisfaction of the complainant's claims. Consequently, on November 2, 2023, for the purposes provided for in Article 64.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data agreed to admit the complaint for processing.  
The aforementioned agreement granted the respondent a hearing period, to present any arguments they deemed appropriate within ten working days, summarizing the following arguments:  
"That it is not our intention to violate any rights belonging to A.A.A., we have not been able to adequately respond to the complaint or rights that it requires because we cannot see anything in the letter they attached to us as it appears very small and distorted, making it impossible to access the content, and we have not received said complaint in our office. However, we indicate that once we received this complaint (without knowing what is requested) we immediately proceeded to remove the files of delinquency.  
What we can affirm is that A.A.A. has a debt with us; we can affirm that the client made a request on our website www.creditomas.es on the day ***DATE.1 and was granted ***AMOUNT.1 for 30 days. We want to indicate that they have not made any payment since the loan's due date, and a copy of the contract and the general conditions, as well as the invoices, are always sent to the email that the client provided during registration, in this case: ***EMAIL.1.  
We want to indicate that from the first day of default we tried to contact them unsuccessfully on their mobile phone, we sent numerous emails and SMS to inform them of the default and that they have a debt with us of ***AMOUNT.2.  
All actions comply with the law and with the conditions of the loan contract that our client accepted and are reflected on our website https://www.creditormas.es and in the contract that we sent to their email where all legal measures that will be adopted and the costs that will arise from the default of the loan are specified."  
We attach to the complaint:  
- Loan contract with specific conditions  
- General conditions  
- Debt certificate  

FOURTH: Having examined the document submitted by the respondent, it is forwarded to the complainant, so that, within fifteen working days, they may formulate any arguments they deem appropriate.  
The complainant has not collected the notification that has been returned as "unclaimed" by the postal service, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.  

LEGAL GROUNDS  
I  
Competence  
In accordance with the powers granted to each supervisory authority by Article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and as established in Articles 47, 48.1, and 64.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.  
Furthermore, Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD states: "The procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data will be governed by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, this organic law, and the provisions...  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es
3/6  
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a subsidiary character, by the general rules on administrative procedures."  
II  
Preliminary Issues  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 55 of the GDPR, the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to perform the functions assigned to it in Article 57, including the enforcement of the Regulation and promoting awareness among data controllers and processors regarding their obligations, as well as addressing complaints submitted by a data subject and investigating, as appropriate, the reasons for such complaints.  
Correspondingly, Article 31 of the GDPR establishes the obligation of data controllers and processors to cooperate with the supervisory authority that requests it in the performance of its functions. In the case that they have appointed a data protection officer, Article 39 of the GDPR assigns this officer the function of cooperating with said authority.  
In accordance with this regulation, following the procedure established in Article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, prior to the admission of the complaint regarding the exercise of the rights regulated in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR, which gives rise to the present procedure, the complaint was forwarded to the respondent party for analysis, to respond to this Agency within one month, and to provide evidence of having given the complainant the appropriate response.  
The result of this transfer did not allow for the understanding that the claims of the complainant were satisfied. Consequently, on November 2, 2023, for the purposes provided in Article 64.1 and 65 of the LOPDGDD, the complaint submitted was admitted for processing. This admission for processing determines the opening of the present procedure for failure to respond to a request for the exercise of the rights established in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR, regulated in Article 64.1 of the LOPDGDD, according to which:  
“When the procedure refers exclusively to the failure to respond to a request for the exercise of the rights established in Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, it shall be initiated by an admission agreement, which shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Article 65 of this organic law.  
In this case, the deadline for resolving the procedure shall be six months from the date on which the admission agreement was notified to the complainant. After this period, the interested party may consider their complaint to be upheld.”  
Article 58.2 of the GDPR grants the Spanish Agency for Data Protection a series of corrective powers for the purpose of rectifying any infringement of the GDPR, including “ordering the controller or processor to address the requests for the exercise of the rights of the data subject under this Regulation.”  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es  

4/6  
III  
Rights of Individuals Regarding Personal Data Protection  
The rights of individuals regarding personal data protection are regulated in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and Articles 13 to 18 of the LOPDGDD. These include the rights of access, rectification, erasure, objection, the right to restriction of processing, and the right to data portability.  
The formal aspects related to the exercise of these rights are established in Articles 12 of the GDPR and 12 of the LOPDGDD.  
Additionally, the provisions expressed in Recitals 59 and following of the GDPR are taken into account.  
In accordance with the provisions of these regulations, the data controller must establish formulas and mechanisms to facilitate the exercise of rights by the data subject, which shall be free of charge (without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 12.5 and 15.3 of the GDPR), and is obliged to respond to requests made no later than one month, unless it can demonstrate that it is unable to identify the data subject, and to state its reasons in case it does not intend to comply with such request. The burden of proof regarding compliance with the duty to respond to the request for the exercise of rights made by the affected party lies with the controller.  
The communication addressed to the data subject regarding their request must be expressed in a concise, transparent, intelligible, and easily accessible manner, using clear and simple language.  
IV  
Right of Access  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 15 of the GDPR and Article 13 of the LOPDGDD, "the data subject has the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning them is being processed and, if so, the right of access to the personal data."  
Regarding the right of access to personal data, according to the provisions of Article 13 of the LOPDGDD, when the exercise of the right refers to a large amount of data, the controller may request the affected party to specify the "data or processing activities to which the request refers." The right shall be deemed granted if the controller provides remote access to the data, considering the request to be addressed (although the data subject may request the information referred to in the aspects provided in Article 15 of the GDPR).  
The exercise of this right may be considered repetitive if it is exercised more than once within a six-month period, unless there is a legitimate reason for doing so.  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es
5/6  
On the other hand, the request will be considered excessive when the affected party chooses a means different from the one offered that incurs a disproportionate cost, which must be borne by the affected party.  
Like the other rights of the interested party, the right of access is a personal right. It allows the citizen to obtain information about the processing of their data, the possibility of obtaining a copy of the personal data concerning them that is being processed, as well as information, in particular, about the purposes of the processing, the categories of personal data involved, the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data may be communicated, the expected retention period or criteria for retention, the possibility of exercising other rights, the right to lodge a complaint with the supervisory authority, the available information about the source of the data (if it has not been obtained directly from the data subject), the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, and information about transfers of personal data to a third country or to an international organization. The possibility of obtaining a copy of the personal data being processed shall not negatively affect the rights and freedoms of others.  
V  
Conclusion  
During the processing of this procedure, the entity being complained about has responded to this Agency, but does not demonstrate having addressed the request made by the complainant, sending them the required response to their request.  
Thus, it cannot be accepted that the response that should be given can be expressed merely as part of an administrative procedure, such as the submission of allegations regarding this procedure, initiated precisely for failing to duly address the request in question.  
The aforementioned rules do not allow the request to be overlooked as if it had not been made, leaving it without the response that the responsible parties must issue, even in the event that there are no data in the files or even in those cases where it does not meet the required criteria, in which case the recipient of such a request is also obliged to require the correction of the observed deficiencies or, if applicable, to deny the request with justification indicating the reasons why the right in question cannot be considered.  
Therefore, the request made obliges the responsible party to provide an express response in all cases, using any means that justifies the receipt of the response.  
Given that a copy of the necessary communication that must be directed to the complainant informing them about the decision made regarding the exercise of rights request is not attached, it is appropriate to uphold the complaint that initiated this procedure.  
In view of the cited provisions and others of general application, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection RESOLVES:  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es  

6/6  
FIRST: TO UPHOLD the complaint filed by A.A.A. considering that the provisions of Article 15 of the GDPR have been violated and to urge SISTEMAS FINANCIEROS MOVILES S.L. (CREDITOMAS) with NIF B11892668, to send to the complainant, within ten working days following the notification of this resolution, a certification addressing the requested right or a reasoned denial indicating the reasons why the request cannot be addressed, in accordance with the provisions set forth in this resolution. The actions taken as a result of this Resolution must be communicated to this Agency within the same timeframe. Non-compliance with this resolution could result in the commission of an infringement of Article 83.6 of the GDPR, classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in Article 72.1.m) of the LOPDGDD, which will be sanctioned in accordance with Article 58.2 of the GDPR.  
SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. and to SISTEMAS FINANCIEROS MOVILES S.L. (CREDITOMAS).  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.  
Against this resolution, which concludes the administrative procedure in accordance with Article 48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file a motion for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within one month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly file an administrative contentious appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of Article 25 and Section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within two months from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.  
1381-090823  
Mar España Martí  
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es