
Invitation to participate in the international conference "GDPR 3 years on: The experiences and challenges of the European SMEs"

We invite all interested to participate online in the international conference
Link for free online participation https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7aIsgJjJI8
 "3 years of application of the GDPR: experiences and challenges of European SMEs in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation" (GDPR 3 years on: The experiences and challenges of the European SMEs), to be held on 25 May 2021. starting at 11 p.m. The conference is organized by the Personal Data Protection Agency in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, within the EU project ARC - awareness raising campaign on data protection for micro, small and medium enterprises, co-financed by the European Union "Equality and Citizenship". We are also marking the third anniversary of the full application of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Sign up for free online participation
PROGRAM:

Invitation to participate in the international conference "GDPR 3 years on: The experiences and challenges of the European SMEs"
We invite all those interested to participate online in the international conference "GDPR 3 years on: The experiences and challenges of the European SMEs", which will be held on May 25, 2021, starting at 11 am. The conference is organized by the Personal Data Protection Agency in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, within the EU project ARC - awareness raising campaign on data protection for micro, small and medium enterprises, co-financed by the European Union "Equality and Citizenship". We are also marking the third anniversary of the full application of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Sign up for free online participation
PROGRAM:
11:00 - 11:15

presentation of a promotional ARC video
introductory speeches:
g. Zdravko Vukić, Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency
dr.sc. Dražen Lučić, Head of the Information Security Department, Croatian Chamber of Commerce
Ms. Nataša Tramišak, Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds of the Republic of Croatia

11:15 - 11:25 - keynote speech by Mr. Olivier Micol, Directorate-General for Justice and Consumer Protection, European Commission

11:25 - 12:25 - panel discussion in English "The impact of the GDPR across industries: state of play and future developments"
Moderator: prof. dr. sc. Tihomir Katulić, Faculty of Law, University of Zagreb,
Panelists: Mr. Igor Vulje, Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, Ms. MB Donnelly, Assistant Irish Data Protection Commissioner (DPC), prof. dr. Paul de Hert s Vrije Universiteit Brussels - Tilburg University, Ph.D. Paolo Balboni, Professor at the Faculty of Law, University of Maastricht, Marija Bošković Batarelo, Lawyer, Parser Compliance d.o.o., Marijan Bračić, Director of the Data Privacy Department in Business Intelligence, Member of the Thematic Innovation Council Security of the Republic of Croatia

12:25 - 12:35 - pause
12:35 - 13:35 - panel discussion in Croatian "How the General Regulation on Data Protection affected the business of Croatian small and medium enterprises"
Moderator: Ms. Sanja Smiljanić Grubišić, HRT journalist, editor of the show "Consumer Code"

Panelists: Zdravko Vukić, Director of the Agency for Personal Data Protection, prof. dr. sc. Tihomir Katulić, Faculty of Law, University of Zagreb, Ms. Natalija Parlov Una, Certified Auditor of Information Security and Privacy (TÜV NORD), Ms. Dijana Kladar, Lawyer Specializing in GDPR, Igor Barlek (GDPR CROATIA)

13:35 - 13:45 - questions from participants
The aim of this conference is to raise awareness of the importance of personal data protection among micro, small and medium enterprises, but also the general public.
Experts in data protection, information security, representatives of regulatory bodies and members of the EU ARC project supervisory board will discuss the challenges and concerns faced by Croatian and European small and medium-sized enterprises in harmonizing business processes with the GDPR:
g. Zdravko Vukić, Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, Mr. Igor Vulje, Deputy Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, Ms. MB Donnelly, Assistant Irish Data Protection Commissioner (DPC), prof. dr. Paul de Hert s Vrije Universiteit Brussels - Tilburg University, Ph.D. Paolo Balboni, Professor at the Faculty of Law, University of Maastricht, Ms. Dijana Kladar, Lawyer specializing in GDPR, Ms. Natalija Parlov Una, Certified Auditor of Information Security and Privacy (TÜV NORD), prof. dr. sc. Tihomir Katulić from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Mr. Igor Barlek (GDPR CROATIA), Mrs. Marija Bošković Batarelo (Parser compliance) and Mr. Marijan Bračić (Business Intelligence).
The first panel discussion in English The impact of GDPR across the industries: state of play and future developments will be moderated by Tihomir Katulić, and representatives of supervisory bodies, IT and GDPR experts will discuss the impact of GDPR on the IT industry. What is it like to be a regulator in a country where the European headquarters of the largest American IT companies are located? Is the idea that data protection oversight bodies can monitor and sanction big tech players utopian? Does GDPR slow down and hinder the development of IT technologies and innovations? Can the GDPR, the ePrivacy Directive and the new regulations in the field of artificial intelligence respond to the challenges of the big data, IoT and Industry 4.0 era? Is there an adequate IT solution to align business with GDPR? How will the Digital Services Act and the Digital Markets Act affect small and medium-sized enterprises? Want to be a part of this interesting discussion? Follow us and ask your question! Sign up for free online participation
The second panel discussion in Croatian entitled "How the General Data Protection Regulation affected the business of Croatian small and medium enterprises" will be moderated by Ms. Sanja Smiljanić Grubišić, HRT journalist and editor of the show Consumer Code, and will discuss topics in the field data protection that is relevant for Croatian entrepreneurs. What is the state of data protection awareness among SMEs three years after the full implementation of the GDPR? What problems do they most often encounter, ie what are their doubts when harmonizing with the legal regulations on data protection? What is the role of the Data Protection Supervisor and should SMEs be afraid of penalties? Are citizens aware of their rights to personal data protection and do they exercise them? These are just some of the questions that the panelists will answer.
The importance of small and medium enterprises in the Republic of Croatia is reflected in the fact that small and medium enterprises make up more than 99% of the total number of all enterprises. The conference "GDPR 3 years on: The experiences and challenges of the European SMEs" will focus on the experiences and needs of small and medium enterprises in the implementation of the GDPR, which during the COVID-19 pandemic became the most vulnerable part of the economic system in Croatia and Europe. union.
In order to provide SMEs with the necessary support in complying with the GDPR, the Personal Data Protection Agency has been coordinating the implementation of the EU project ARC-Awareness Raising Campaing for SMEs since March 2020. entrepreneurs), co-financed by the European Union's Rights, Equality and Citizenship Program. This significant project is being implemented by AZOP in cooperation with the Irish Data Protection Authority and the University of Brussels. The ARC aims to support small and medium-sized enterprises in complying with the GDPR through the implementation of various project activities, such as holding advisory activities and developing educational materials tailored to the specific needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Project activities will run until March 2022. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce provides support to the AZOP in the organization and implementation of all activities. Find out more about the EU ARC project
Small and medium-sized enterprises rightly believe that they are at a disadvantage in the new system of personal data protection compared to large companies, because unlike large companies they do not have enough financial and human resources needed to comply with new data protection regulations. Also, the need to support small and medium-sized enterprises was highlighted in the European Commission's Evaluation Report on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, which emphasized the need to develop practical tools and templates for GDPR compliance for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Therefore, the Agency for Personal Data Protection paid special attention to small and medium-sized enterprises in 2020 and 2021, providing support in harmonizing business processes with the General Regulation on Data Protection in the form of online workshops tailored to their specific needs. In all our activities, full support was provided by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, to which we would like to thank for their cooperation and unreserved support of the EU ARC project.
We would like to emphasize that the General Data Protection Regulation is a comprehensive piece of legislation based on reliability and confidence-building in digital services as a key to the development of the digital economy in the single internal market. The importance of personal data protection is evidenced by a survey conducted by the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, so 69% of the EU population aged 16 and over are aware of the existence of the GDPR, and 71% of respondents in the EU know what their national data protection authority. It is clear that individuals are increasingly aware that a company that takes care of personal data protection and takes all technical and organizational measures to ensure adequate data protection, can achieve a competitive advantage over other companies that have not invested in this business segment. Such an investment is necessary for companies to survive in the market in the future and minimize financial and reputational risks.
We would like to take this opportunity to encourage entrepreneurs and emphasize that compliance with the General Regulation is not an insurmountable obstacle or an administrative burden that necessarily requires large financial and human resources. The first and most important step, and it costs nothing, in complying with the GDPR is to inform about your obligations arising from personal data protection legislation: that is why we invite all micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to free AZOP GDPR online workshops.
Find out more on the EU ARC project
