1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00346/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before
HOTEL ROYAL AL ANDALUS S.A., by virtue of a claim filed by Mr.
A.A.A. and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 04/23/2018, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data from D. A.A.A. (hereinafter the complainant), in which he denounces
HOTEL ROYAL AL ANDALUS, S.A. (hereinafter HRAA), by means of which
manifests the existence of installation of video-surveillance cameras in the aforementioned
center at certain points of the same in a disproportionate way and
violating the right to privacy.

Along with your written complaint, you provide photographs of the location of the
cameras and surveillance points.

SECOND: HRAA was required by resolution of this Agency dated
04/23/2018 to certify in the reference file E/03448/2018, in
in relation to the actions carried out to adapt the installation of
video surveillance of the aforementioned center to the requirements set by the regulations of
Data Protection.

HRAA in writing of allegations of 10/18/2018 answers this body, indicating
that can certify that the surveillance installation complies with the regulations of
Data Protection; duly signposted; that the cameras record exclusively
the property of the Hotel and in common areas and entrance and exit to the work center,
step for suppliers and customer enjoyment areas.

THIRD: On 12/03/2018, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure for the presumed infraction of the
article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 58 section 2
of the same norm, considering that the sanction that could correspond would be
WARNING, without prejudice to what may result from the investigation.

FOURTH: On 01/18/2019, the representation of HRAA presented a written
arguments, formulating, in summary: that having been notified of the initial agreement
sanctioning procedure and informed about the alleged deficiencies
denounced in the surveillance system installed, these have been corrected having
The location of the camera installed in the staff dining room has been modified.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, there have been
accredited the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 04/23/2018 there is a written entry in the AEPD from the claimant in which
complaint to HRAA for the installation of cameras of the video surveillance system in
dependencies of the center violating the right to privacy, providing images of,
among others, the cameras installed in the staff dining room, the toilet door
intended for staff, corridors, etc.

SECOND: HRAA in writing dated 10/18/2018 states that the company complies
with the regulations on data protection, attaching photographic material detailing
the place where the cameras of the system are installed, with their
corresponding informative posters, not including images of toilets, changing rooms,
etc., although including photographs of camera(s) that collect images of the dining room
of personal.

THIRD: HRRA in writing dated 01/18/2019 informs that the
location of the camera(s) installed in the staff dining room providing photographs
of different accesses to the center, but not those that captured images of said
dependence.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The third transitory provision of the LOPDGDD establishes: "Regime

transitory procedures:

1. The procedures already initiated at the entry into force of this organic law shall be
shall be governed by the above regulations, unless this organic law contains provisions
more favorable for the interested party.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD indicates: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

In the first place, it is worth remembering what are the requirements that the
processing of images through video surveillance systems to comply with
with current regulations:

III

- Respect the principle of proportionality.
- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of 4
april.
- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space since the treatment of images in
public places can only be carried out, where appropriate, by the Forces and
Security forces. Spaces cannot be captured or recorded either.
property of third parties without the consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of
the people who are in them.
- The duty to inform those affected provided for in article
12 of the RGPD 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the terms referred to both
in the aforementioned article, as well as in articles 13 and 14 of said regulation, resulting
of application -by not contradicting the provisions of the aforementioned Regulation-, the
manner provided for in article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, on Data Processing
Personal for Surveillance Purposes through Camera Systems or
Video cameras (Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection).

Specifically, it must:

1. Place at least one informative badge in the video-monitored areas

located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.
In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
of April 27, 2016, in the aforementioned informative badge, you must
identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the person in charge and
the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said precepts.

2. Keep available to those affected the information referred to in the

cited Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016.

HRAA is charged with the violation of article 5 RGPD, Principles related to the

treatment, which provides the following:

IV

"1. The personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

On the other hand, the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Protection
of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD), in its article
22, Processing for video surveillance purposes, section 1, states that:

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of persons and goods, as well as their
installations.

And in its section 8 it states that: “8. The treatment by the data employer
obtained through camera or video camera systems is subject to the provisions
in article 89 of this organic law”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

Article 89 "Right to privacy against the use of communication devices
video surveillance and sound recording in the workplace”, in section 2,
determines that:

"two. In no case will the installation of video recording systems be allowed.
sounds or video surveillance in places intended for the rest or recreation of
workers or public employees, such as changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and
analogues”.

The facts denounced took the form of the installation of a system of
video surveillance with cameras in different dependencies of the HRAA, some of the
which did not contain the proper signage and violated the regulations regarding
data protection and the right to privacy of workers.

According to the statements made by the representative of the
responsible for the establishment denounced after the agreement to start
this sanctioning procedure, the new installation of the camera/s has been carried out
of video surveillance in spaces that are intended to be protected, ceasing any
affectation of the right of workers in the places destined for their rest or
recreation.

v

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of
€20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount
at a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates: “Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”

However, article 58.2 of the REPD provides the following: "Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

 sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)
b)

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations. About
when it is appropriate to opt for one or the other route, the application of article 83 of the RGPD
or the warning measure of article 58.2.b), the rule itself in its Considering
148 of Regulation 2016/679 which establishes the following:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

SAW

It should be noted that after the request made to the claimed party,
accredited that the installed video surveillance system has been modified in a way
that the camera(s) that violated the regulations on the protection of
data and that were the subject of controversy have been reinstated, providing evidence
documentary that confirms its correct installation, especially the one that captured
the images of the workers in the unit destined to be the dining room of the
themselves.

In the same way, the adoption of any specific measure is not urged to
take, since the adoption of measures for the correct installation of the
video surveillance system and its adaptation to the new principles that the
GDPR.

To conclude, taking into account the absence of intentionality, the absence
of damages, the behavior and the measures adopted by the person in charge
of the treatment further attenuate his culpability in the present case, for which reason
It is appropriate to sanction with a warning.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE HOTEL ROYAL AL ANDALUS S.A., with NIF A81479107, for
an infringement of article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of the
article 83.5 of the aforementioned RGPD and, described as very serious in article 72.1 a) of the
LOPDGDD, a penalty of WARNING in accordance with the provisions of the
article 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to HOTEL ROYAL AL ANDALUS S.A.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

and, according to art. 77.2 of the RGPD, INFORM the claimant about the result of the
claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
114.1 c) of the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

