1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00207/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated April 9, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against Servicios Prescriptor y Medios de Pago, E.F.C., S.A.U.
with NIF A86373701 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The claimant states that the respondent requires the payment of a
treatment for which he had only requested a quote without formalizing any contract of
financing.

He adds that his data was reported to the asset solvency file and

BADEXCUG credit.

It states that the events took place on ***DATE.1.
And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:

 Letters sent by TEAM4 with dates of October 18, November 5 and 12

December 2018.

 Letter sent by EXPERIAN BUREAU DE CRÉDITO S.A. dated 15
January 2019 informing the claimant of the inclusion of her data in the
BADEXCUG file.

 Letter sent by ASNEF-EQUIFAX dated January 15, 2019

informing the claimant of the inclusion of their data in the ASNEF file.

 Complaint filed with the Municipal Consumer Information Office of

Madrid dated December 12, 2018.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, on May 6, 2019, it was agreed not to
admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing, in accordance with the
stipulated in article 65.2 of the LOPDGDD, after the analysis carried out on the
documents provided and the concurrent circumstances, no evidence was found
rationale of the existence of an infringement in the field of competence of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

THIRD: The claimant filed on May 20, 2019, an appeal for
replacement, providing new documentation, highlighting the contract, without signing, of a
medical treatment that the affected party states was never carried out and that
had only requested a quote, finally opting for another
treatment with a lower budget and for which financing was not necessary.

And provides, among others, the following documents:
 Stomach reduction operation budget.
 Loan contract request not signed by the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

 Bulletin of adherence to insurance for death, unemployment, disability, etc.

not signed.

 Communication from EVO FINANCE indicating the monthly payment plan.
 Request to the BANKIA entity for a refund of an improper charge originating from

EVO FINANCE and modification of the SEPA direct debit order.

On July 2, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, agrees to estimate the reversal appeal filed by the claimant against the
Resolution of this Agency issued on May 6, 2019, having provided
new relevant documentation for the purpose of considering that the question raised
could be contrary to current regulations on data protection.

FOURTH: Information requested from EQUIFAX IBERICA, S.L. (hereinafter, EQUIFAX)
on the data of the claimant reported to the ASNEF file, dated June 3
of 2020 is received in this Agency, response to the request sent by
EQUIFAX stating that there are no records of the claimant from any entity
in the ASNEF file.

Information requested from EXPERIAN BUREAU de CRÉDITO, S.A. about the data
of the claimant informed to the BADEXCUG file, dated July 1, 2020,
receives in this Agency a response to the request sent by this company
indicating that currently there are no data reported to the BADEXCUG file of
the claimant, although in her historical file, there was a registration reported by EVO
FINANCE on January 13, 2019, for an unpaid amount of XXX €, which was given
unsubscribed on June 23, 2019 as a result of the automatic update
weekly data file sent by the entity.

FIFTH: On August 11, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the entity claimed, by means of a letter of
dated September 17 of this year, made, in summary, the following allegations:
“The respondent has a loan and credit agreement duly signed
through an electronic signature process with the intervention of a trusted third party
in which the loan applicant was identified and her consent was obtained
contract, which was provided through the aforementioned electronic signature process.

1. Evo Finance loan and credit agreement in the name of the claimant
duly signed electronically through the service provider
trusted electronic mail by consigning an OTP code “One
Time Password”

1.1 Trusted electronic service for certified electronic contracting
contracted by Prescriptor Services with the service provider entity
trusted electronics Logalty Servicios de Tercero de Confianza, S.L.
(hereinafter Logalty) aimed at proving the validity of the contract, the
identity of the contracting party and the provision of their consent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

Prescriptor Services (previously, "Evo Finance") has contracted with the entity
provider of trusted electronic services Logalty a service of
Certified Electronic Contracting.
Logalty is a provider of trusted electronic services and other services
in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.
In accordance with article 30.2 of the Electronic Signature Law, Logalty is
included in the list of trusted electronic service providers, both
qualified and unqualified, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Digital Transformation.
All communications between Client and Logalty are made through
telematic transactions signed electronically under a secure system of
communications.
Logalty's Certified Electronic Procurement includes as standard the
certified copy of the document perfected by the parties, with a mechanism of
control of the integrity of the content and making a notarial deposit of the
summary function of the content of all contracts

        The following documentary evidence is provided as document No. 4:

YO.

II.

III.

IV.

Loan and credit agreement dated 08/02/2018 in the name of the
claimant with his DNI signed by electronic signature with seal of
Logalty, unique identifier and time stamp,
General Conditions sent by email to the claimant and
additionally accessible through the address ***URL.1, as specified
indicates in the contract;
Documentation provided by the claimant during the process of
hiring: a) copy of your ID, b) payroll of the claimant
corresponding to the month of June 2018 and c) savings book in your favor
proof of the bank account incorporated into the contract in the Order of
SEPA direct debit, IBAN account.
Certificate issued by Logalty in accordance with the indicated
previously accrediting contractual perfection

This specific agreement, as well as the definition of the perfection process
electronic contract is collected in two different places of the
contractual documentation that was sent by email to the claimant
to your email address
For all that, one cannot expect to find that the contractual document to be
contributes is signed in a handwritten way in the boxes provided by the
loan applicant. The aforementioned boxes are blank because the act of
The signature is constituted by the series of electronic evidences that are accredited with
the certificate provided as a non-tamperable document with a unique identifier,
digitally signed by Logalty and time-stamped that includes the evidence
electronic information obtained during the contracting process as well as the contract
electronically signed.
In this regard, it is noted that as part of the services provided by Logalty
is the sending of two SMS in case of signing by mobile for the
perfection/signature of the contract by the recipient. The contract certificate
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

4/7

electronic includes the contract downloaded by the client upon receipt of email
sent to your email address whose particular and general conditions
were read and subsequently accepted through the OTP code that was
forwarded to your mobile phone number. The certificate bears a code of
unique identification matching the electronic time stamp contained in
the right margin of the contract.
In conclusion, the claimant electronically signed the Loan Agreement and
Credit giving your consent to it and the clause of treatment of
personal data included in it
As confirmation of the electronic signature of the loan contract Services
Prescriptor transferred the amount requested to the establishment designated by the
claimant”.

FIFTH: On October 26, 2020, the respondent was notified of the opening of the
testing period, considering all the previous actions incorporated, as well as
as the documents provided by the claimed entity.

PROVEN FACTS

1º On April 9, 2019, the claimant states that the respondent requires
the payment of a treatment for which you have only requested an estimate without formalizing
any financing agreement.

2º On September 17, 2020, the respondent states that the claimant
accepted the particular and general conditions of the Loan and Credit Agreement
giving their consent through the electronic signature process whose validity
legal is the same as if it were handwritten. Proof of this is the certificate of
electronic contracting issued by Logalty.

3º In the loan and credit agreement dated 08/02/2018, the name
of the claimant with their DNI signed by means of an electronic signature with a Logalty stamp,
unique identifier and time stamp,

It confirms the remission of the General Conditions sent by mail
email to the claimant and additionally accessible through the address
***URL.1, as indicated in the contract;

Likewise, there is the documentation provided by the claimant during the
contracting process: a) copy of your DNI, b) payroll of the claimant
corresponding to the month of June 2018 and c) savings book in your favor certifying
of the bank account included in the contract in the Direct Debit Order
direct SEPA, IBAN account.

Likewise, the certificate issued by Logalty in accordance with the indicated

previously accrediting the contractual perfection.

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Law 39/2015, of Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(LPACAP) establishes in its article 89.1 that "the termination of the
procedure, with filing of the actions, without the need to formulate
of the proposed resolution, when in the instruction of the procedure it is stated
I declare that any of the following circumstances exist:

a) The non-existence of the facts that could constitute the infraction”.

III

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of Article 6 of the
RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the cases in which
the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

In the case at hand, after a detailed study of the
documents in this proceeding, and the claims of the respondent,
We must point out that the loan and credit agreement of the
date 08/02/2018 the name of the claimant with her DNI signed by signature
electronic with Logalty seal, unique identifier and time stamp,

It confirms the remission of the General Conditions sent by mail
email to the claimant and additionally accessible through the address
***URL.1, as indicated in the contract.

Likewise, there is the documentation provided by the claimant during the
contracting process: a) copy of your DNI, b) payroll of the claimant
corresponding to the month of June 2018 and c) savings book in your favor certifying
of the bank account included in the contract in the Direct Debit Order
direct SEPA, IBAN account.

Likewise, the certificate issued by Logalty certifying the perfection

contractual.

Therefore, the file of this sanctioning procedure proceeds.

Having seen the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the

Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE sanctioning procedure PS/00207/2020, instructed to
Prescriptor Services and Means of Payment, E.F.C., S.A.U. with NIF A86373701, for having
accredited that he used reasonable diligence, since the claimant formalized a
financing contract.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Prescriber Services and Media
Pago, E.F.C., S.A.U. with NIF A86373701

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

