"The signs of the times point to transparency"

Posted by Press Office | September 24, 2020 | Current news, freedom of information, slider



 


State Councilor Gisela Erler and Dr. Stefan Brink, the State Commissioner for Freedom of Information, present the new practical guide to the State Freedom of Information Act.
Both citizens and the bodies responsible for information in the state benefit from the explanations and practical tips in the practical guide presented today on the State Freedom of Information Act. dr Stefan Brink explains: "In addition to commenting on the law and explanations of individual legal provisions, the guide provides examples, diagrams, further links for more detailed information and concrete suggestions for wording."
This guide has been written for practical use and is up to date: In recent years, it has not only been case law that has taken account of citizens' access to information. The willingness of public bodies to grant access to “their” information and to give an account of their own activities has also developed significantly. This can be seen, for example, in the introduction of transparency laws in other countries or the demand for lobby registers and the "legislative footprint", i.e. the traceability of legislative processes. A general right to freedom of information will also be established at international level in December 2020 with the entry into force of the Tromsö Convention of the Council of Europe, the new international treaty.
State Councilor Gisela Erler: “Information is the foundation of all citizen participation. With the guidelines for a new planning culture, the administration has tools and orientation in certain procedures at its disposal. I welcome the fact that the state commissioner also offers an orientation for freedom of information with this practical guide”.
Open administration, closeness to the people and an orientation towards dialogue enable successful citizen participation and strengthen trust in the state and its administration. The newly presented practice guide supports this positive development.
Stefan Brink is convinced: “The practical guide is much more inspired and supported by the idea of freedom of information than the draft law of 2015 could have been. Transparency laws will continue their triumphal march in the coming years - hopefully soon in Baden-Württemberg as well."

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-23.
Here you will find the practical guide to the State Freedom of Information Act.
Further information on freedom of information can be found on the Internet at www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.
The press release is available as a PDF at http://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.






Share:




 

.post-footer .rating-stars #rated-stars img.star-on,
.post-footer .rating-stars #rating-stars img.star-on {
background-color: #868682;
}






Previous "Decision-making authority and quorum of the supervisory authority and not centralization must be the goal"

Next contact tracing apps: Google can spy on users even better