 

 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
 

Call for Expressions of Interest  

2022/S  070-181896 

 

corrigendum 

 

(Supplement  to the Official Journal  of the European  Union,  21.2.2022,  2022/S  036-

091761) 

 
 

“Establishment  of a List of Individual Experts for the implementation  of the 

EDPB’s Support Pool of Experts” 

 

 

 

TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

CONTENTS  
 
TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION ............................................................. ....................................3  
 
1. INTRODUCTION  ...............................................................................................................3  
 
2. TASKS AND ACTIVITIES  OF THE EXPERTS  ..................................................................4  
 
3. FIELDS OF EXPERTISE  SOUGHT  ...................................................................................5  
 
4. EXCLUSION  CRITERIA......................................................................................................6  
 
5. ELIGIBILITY  CRITERIA  ......................................................................................................8  
 
6. SELECTION CRITERIA.......................................................................................................9  
 
7. DURATION  OF THE LIST OF EXPERTS............................................................................9  
 
8. OWNERSHIP  AND USE OF RESULTS...............................................................................9 
 
9. ESTIMATED BUDGET ........................................................................................................9  
 
10. DATA PROTECTION .......................................................................................................10  
 
11 GENERAL ............................................................................................. ...........................10 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

 

 
 

 
1. INTRODUCTION 

 

TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION 

 

The  European Data  Protection Board  (EDPB)  is  an  independent European body,  which 
contributes to the consistent application of data protection rules throughout the European 
Union, and promotes cooperation between the EU’s data protection authorities.  

It is established by Regulation 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation or GDPR). The 
EDPB’s tasks are listed in article 70 of GDPR and they include among others:  

 

-  providing general guidance to clarify the law and to promote a common understanding 

- 

or EU data protection laws; 
 
Issuing  opinions  to  ensure  consistency  of  the  activities  of  national  Supervisory 
Authorities on cross border matters (Art. 64 GDPR).  
 

-  adopting binding decisions addressed to  the  national Supervisory Authorities and 
aiming to settle disputes arising between them when they cooperate to enforce the 
GDPR,  with  the purpose of  ensuring the correct and consistent application of  the 
GDPR in individual cases; 
 

-  promoting and supporting the cooperation among national Supervisory Authorities. 

 

The EDPB has a permanent secretariat whose missions are laid down in article 75 of GDPR 
and include providing analytical, administrative and logistical support to the Board.  
 
The EDPB 2021-2023 strategy has identified the need for improved collaboration between 
authorities. In particular, pillar 2 of the strategy (supporting effective enforcement and efficient 
cooperation between national supervisory authorities) calls for the establishment of a Support 
Pool of Experts (SPE), with a view of providing material support in the form of expertise that 
is useful for investigations and enforcement activities and to enhance the cooperation and 
solidarity between all SAs. Its Terms of Reference1 were adopted on 15 December 2020.  
 
The SPE involves both the EDPB and external experts.  
 
In  December 2021, the EDPB  further identified topics and areas of expertise for which the 
SPE  could be used. This includes and is not limited  to support in the context of a specific 
investigative procedure, methodological tools for inspections (and capacity building), as well 
as elaborating documentation on national case law. In the context of the establishment of the 
SPE, EDPB is looking for experts with a high level of expertise and professional experience.  
 

                                              
1 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb_document_supportpoolofexpertstor_en.pdf 

 

3 

 
 
The objective of this call for expressions of interest is to set up a list, containing sub -lists as 
specified in point 3 below, of external experts for the implementation of the EDPB’s Support 
Pool of Experts, for the period 2022-2024. 
 
 

 

2. TASKS  AND ACTIVITIES  OF THE EXPERTS 

 
The subject matter experts could be expected to perform any tasks in the area of 
enforcement support and coordination, including one or more of the following:  
 

 

  Support / participate in investigation activities (as approved and authorised by SAs, 
under the direction and management of national authorities, and in compliance with 
applicable laws) – e.g. scoping, evidence gathering and analysis, participating in a 
remote or onsite inspection, digital forensics / analysing data in a lawful manner and 
for use in regulatory procedures and/or court proceedings. 
 

  Provide advisory services for the development and documentation of investigatory 
support tools and methods (in particular in technical fields) or for the purchase and 
use of specialist technical equipment, in order to ensure that regulatory procedures 
can be carried out in as effective and efficient manner as possible. 
 

  Provide legal advisory services on the use of specific forensic methods to gather 

evidential quality that can be relied on in the course of a  regulatory procedure and/or 
in court proceedings. 
 

  Produce (written and oral) high-quality, clear, concise, and when required sufficiently 

detailed contributions, according to their expertise in the project selected. This may 
cover both technical and methodological contributions as well as non-
technical/summative contributions.  
 

  Participate in any face-to-face meetings and teleconferences organised, including as 

appropriate in working groups. 

 

It should be noted that the subject matter experts are appoint ed “ad personam” and will not 
be considered as representatives of their organization or affiliation they are employed with.  
 
For this reason, the successful applicant will be required to complete a ‘Legal Entity’ 
identification form (LE) in their own name, as a ‘natural person’ and not in the name of their 
employer. If the applicant has a 100% owned private company, then this may exceptionally 
be used to complete the LE form. 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

 
 
 

3. FIELDS OF EXPERTISE SOUGHT 

 

 

EDPB will  from time to time need to involve external subject matter experts to participate in 
and  provide their  expertise  for  various projects  in  the  field  of  enforcement support and 
coordination; the range of activities is determined in line with needs of EDPB.  
 
This call seeks natural persons/external experts to assist the EDPB in a personal capacity.  
 
The EDPB  welcomes  expressions of interest from experts in many sectors, i.e. academia, 
research, industry, EU  institutions, etc. with  a  relevant expertise in  one or  several of  the 
following fields (each item below being a “sub-list”):  
 
A. Technical expertise in new technologies and information security (including but not limited 
to the following):  
 

1.  IT auditing, information security auditing.  

 

2.  Website security, Mobile OS, internet of things, mobile application. 

 

3.  Digital forensics, Eavesdropping techniques, MITM proxy. 

 

4.  Cloud computing architectures, cloud computing models, cloud infrastructures, cloud 

services, cloud trust and security.  
 

5.  Behavioural advertising, digital  tracking, cookies,  fingerprinting, RTB  and  internet 
advertising (programmatic advertising, ad exchanges, demand side platforms, SSP, 
data brokers, consent management platforms), ePrivacy. 

 
6.  Anonymisation and  pseudonymisation techniques; Risk  analysis  and  attacks  with 
respect  to  data  re-identification (including  inference  attacks);  Privacy  enhancing 
technologies. 
 

7.  Cryptology; (a)symmetric cryptography; Hash functions, digital signature, message 
authentication; Cryptanalysis methodologies, techniques and tools; Crypto material 
management  Key  management,  PKI;  Homomorphic  encryption;  Mathematical 
foundations of cryptography.  
 

8.  Digital  identity  management  and  Trust  Services  (including  security  of  electronic 
identification schemes, authentication, digital signatures); eIDAS; zero trust, identity 
federation; Age verification ; Biometrics including facial recognition .  

9.  Artificial intelligence. 

 

10. UX,  web design and dark patterns. 

 

5 

 
 

 

 
11. DPIA, personal data breaches, risk management. 

 

12. Fintech. 

 

13. Data science or statistical analysis in this field. 

14. Experience in conducting exercises / training in the above .  

 

 

 

 
 
B. Legal expertise in new technologies (including but not limited to the following):  
 

1-  Policy monitoring. 

 

2-  Digital  laws,  EU  legal  framework  on  data  protection and  privacy,  legislation  on 

forensics. 
 

3-  Digital ethics. 

 

4-  Statistical analysis in this field of activity. 

 
 
4. EXCLUSION CRITERIA 
 
Experts shall be excluded from participation if the natural person is in one of the following 
situations: 

a.  it is  bankrupt, subject to insolvency or winding-up procedures, its assets are being 
administered by a liquidator or by a court, it is in an arrangement with creditors, its 
business activities are suspended or it is in  any analogous situation aris ing from a 
similar procedure provided for under Union or national law; 
 

b.  it has been established by a final judgement or a final administrative decision that the 
person is in breach of its obligations relating to the payment of taxes or social security 
contributions in accordance with the applicable law; 
 

c.  it has been established by a final judgment or a final administrative decision that the 
person is guilty of grave professional misconduct by having violated applicable laws or 
regulations or ethical standards of the profession to which the person belongs, or by 
having engaged in  any wrongful conduct which  has  an impact  on  its  professional 
credibility where such conduct denotes wrongful intent or gross negligence, including, 
in particular, any of the following: 

i. 

ii. 

fraudulently  or  negligently  misrepresenting  information  required  for  the 
verification of the absence of grounds for exclusion or the fulfilment of eligibility 
or selection  criteria or in the performance of a contract or an agreement;  
entering into agreement with other persons or entities with the aim of distorting 
competition; 

 

6 

 
 

 

iii. 
iv. 

v. 

violating intellectual property rights; 
attempting to influence the decision-making process of the contracting authority 
during the award procedure; 
attempting to  obtain confidential information that may  confer upon it  undue 
advantages in the award procedure; 
 

i. 

ii. 

d. it has been established by a final judgment that the person is guilty of any of the following:  
fraud, within the meaning of Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2017/1371 and Article 1 
of the Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial 
interests , drawn up by the Council Act of 26 July 1995; 
corruption, as defined in  Article 4(2) of  Directive (EU)  2017/1371 or active 
corruption within the meaning of Article 3 of the Convention on the fight against 
corruption involving  officials  of  the  European  Communities  or  officials  of 
Member States of the European Union, drawn up by the Council Act of 26 May 
1997, or conduct referred to in  Article 2(1) of Council F ramework Decision 
2003/568/JHA, or corruption as defined in other applicable laws;  
conduct related to a criminal organisation, as referred to in Article 2 of Council 
Framework Decision 2008/841/JHA; 

iii. 

v. 

iv.  money laundering or terrorist financing, within the meaning of Article 1(3), (4) 
and (5) of  Directive (EU)  2015/849 of the European Parliament and of  the 
Council; 
terrorist offences or offences related to terrorist activities as well as of inciting, 
aiding, abetting or attempting to commit such offences as defined in Articles 3, 
14 and Title III  of Directive (EU) 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 15 March 2017 on combating terrorism; 
child  labour  or  other  offences  concerning trafficking  in  human  beings  as 
referred to in Article 2 of Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and 
of the Council; 

vi. 

 

e.  it  has  shown  significant  deficiencies  in  complying  with  the  main  obligations  in  the   
performance of a contract or an agreement financed by the Union’s budget, which has led to 
its early termination or to the application of liquidated damages or other contractual penalties, 
or  which  has been discovered following  checks, audits or investigations by  a  contracting 
authority, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) or the Court of Auditors; 
 
f.  it has been established by a final judgment or final administrative decision that the economic 
operator has committed an irregularity within the meaning of Article 1(2) of Council Regulation 
(EC, Euratom) No 2988/95; 
 
g. it has been established by a final judgment or final administrative decision that the person 
has created an entity in a different jurisdiction with the intent to circumvent fiscal, social or any 
other legal  obligations in  the  jurisdiction of  its  registered office,  central administration or 
principal place of business. 
 
 
 

 

7 

 
 
5. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA  
 
Based on the self-declared application forms received, only candidates who meet the 
following minimum criteria will automatically be considered to be included in the list of 
external experts dependent on endorsement by an evaluation committee:  
 

 

  Have fully completed their application form; 

 

  Have experience in using English as a working language;  

 

  Have a university degree in a relevant area, preferably at post-graduate level  

 

  Have a minimum of three years of relevant professional experience, 

 

  Have minimum  12 months of experience in the selected fields of expertise during the 

last 5 years;  
 

  Have provided a self-assessment of their competence in the selected sub-fields 

 

  Have  provided a  CV  preferably in  Europass  format.  The  template  (preferably in 
English) 
link: 
https://europass.cedefop.europa.eu  and which  highlights  the  years  of  experience  the 
applicant has in the specified fields.  

downloaded 

following 

from 

web 

can 

the 

be 

 
 
Exceptionally, candidates who are close to the minimum requirements for years of experience 
or who have a unique skillset, may be considered for evaluation and inclusion in the List. 
 
Only candidates whose nationality and bank accounts meet the requirements stemming from 
Article 176 of the Financial Regulation (Regulation 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and 
of the Council of 18 July 2018) can be awarded a contract.  
(i.e. Are a national of, or working for a legal entity of one of the M ember States of the EU or 
EEA; have a bank account in an EU Member State or EEA). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

8 

 
 
6. SELECTION  CRITERIA   
 
Applicants will be evaluated according to their technical and professional capacity to meet 
the requirements of the Field(s) for which they are applying, following the criteria below:  
 

 

  Relevance of their current job responsibilities and expertise to each of the ‘Fields’ 

applying for.  
 

  Professional certifications held and publications will be taken into consideration.  

 

  Their experience based on previous participation in similar projects; in particular, 

participation in relevant EU projects  with Supervisory Authorities will be considered 
an advantage.  

 
More specifically, an applicant may provide the following documentation/information:  
 

  A list of projects or publications related to their declared field(s) of interest in the 

past 3 years. Without evidence of recent activity then it will be difficult to judge the 
applicant’s suitability and level of experience.  
 

  Professional certifications and references (e.g. links) to publications.  

 

 
7. DURATION  OF THE  LIST  OF EXPERTS   
 
The CEI List of Experts compiled as a result of this procedure will be valid for two years from 
dispatch of this notice and may be extended for two more years.  
 
Interested parties may submit an expression of interest at any time prior to the last 
three months of validity of the list. 
 
New applications will be evaluated on a regular basis in order to update the List with successful 
applicants. 
 
 
8. OWNERSHIP  AND  USE OF RESULTS   
 
The results produced (including copyright and other intellectual or industrial property rights) 
will belong to the contracting authority. The rights will be obtained for the full term of intellectual 
property protection, from the moment the results are delivered and approved. Delivery and 
approval are considered to constitute an effective assignment of rights. This transfer of rights 
is free of charge. 
 
 
9. ESTIM ATED  BUDGET   
 
Each selected Expert will be remunerated with a fixed fee of € 450 per person-day plus any 
travel and subsistence related costs, which will be based on EDPS’s applicable rules.  
 

 

9 

 

 
 
A successful applicant who is added to the CEI  List may be invited to participate in one or 
more projects. The threshold of the directive on public procurement (2014/24/EU) applies to 
the total of all payments to be made to each expert throughout the duration of this list  of 
experts. If  an expert has  concluded contracts for a  total amount exceeding €15 000 in a 
calendar year, the name, the locality (region of origin), amount, and subject of the contracts 
shall be published on the website of the contracting authority no later than 30 June of the year 
following contract award. The information shall be removed two years after the year of contract 
award. 
 
 
10. DATA  PROTECTION  
 
Details on  the processing of personal data associated to this procedure 2 are available at 
https://edpb.europa.eu/edpb-specific-privacy-statements_en  
 
11. GENERAL   
 
It is clarified that EDPB is not limited to only appointing experts registered in this database. It 
may  select in  a  transparent manner any  individual expert  with  the  appropriate skills  not 
included in the database, if deemed appropriate and in duly justified cases.  
 
Please note that for any particular project, EDPB has the possibility under the regulations 
governing Calls for Expressions of Interest to conduct a simplified tender procedure whereby 
all Experts already placed on the List of Experts for a particular field, will be in vited to provide 
a tailored offer for the project.  
The offers received will  then be evaluated on the basis of relevance and experience for the 
specific project, with the best submission evaluated being awarded the contract.  
 
It is also noted that applicants that do not wish to or cannot be remunerated due to their primary 
employment contracts, are also eligible to apply for inclusion in the List of Experts, indicating 
this in the respective field of the CEI Application form.  
 
These applicants will  still  be entitled to reimbursement of any travel and subsistence costs 
incurred from their participation in a project, should they wish to be reimbursed.  
 
Expressions of interest should be submitted in one of the official languages of the 
European  Union 
address: 
https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/PoolOfExperts 
 
In case of question please contact edpb@edpb.europa.eu by adding [SPE CEI] in the subject 
of the email.  
 

electronic  means 

following 

the 

by 

at 

                                              
2 If personal data is processed by the expert, this must be done in accordance with the written instructions of the 
data controller. Appropriate technical and organisational security measures are in place to address data processing 
risks (preventing unauthorised access, reading, copying, alteration or deletion of personal data, etc.). 
 

 

10 

 
 
 

 

The Contracting authority shall acknowledge receipt of the expression of interest (directly in 
the web interface at the end of the registration process) and shall proceed to the registration 
of the expert on the list (sub-list(s)) as soon as possible (and in any case within 3 months) 
after the date of the reception of the expression of interest as above. 

Inclusion on the list (sub-list(s)) entails no obligation on the part of the contracting 
authority concerning the conclusion of contracts.  

Contracting authority 

 

European  Data Protection  Supervisor  (EDPS) acting for the  
European  Data Protection  Board (EDPB) 
Rue Wiertz 60,  
B-1047  Brussels 
 

 

11 

