Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
Bill no. 7818 amending the Code of
consumption for the purposes of transposition of 1. Directive (EU) 2019/770
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 relating to certain
aspects concerning contracts for the supply of digital content
and digital services; 2. Directive (EU) 2019/771 of the Parliament
European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 relating to certain aspects
concerning contracts for the sale of goods, amending Regulation (EU)
2017/2394 and Directive 2009/22/EC and repealing Directive
1999/44/EC.

Deliberation n°30/AV25/2021 of October 1, 2021

In accordance with article 57, paragraph l, letter (c) of regulation (EU) n°2016/679 of 27 April
2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data ä
personal character and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which refers
Article 7 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the
data protection and the general data protection regime, the Commission
National Commission for Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as the “National Commission” or the
"CNPD") "advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the
government and other institutions and organizations regarding legislative measures and
administrative measures relating to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with
of treatment”.

By letter dated April 13, 2021, Madam Minister of Consumer Protection
invited the National Commission to give its opinion on draft law no. 7818 amending
of the Consumer Code for the purposes of transposition of 1. Directive (EU) 2019/770 of
European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 on certain aspects concerning the
contracts for the supply of digital content and digital services; 2. the directive (EU)
2019/771 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 relating to certain aspects
concerning contracts for the sale of goods, amending Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 and Directive
2009/22/EC and repealing Directive 1999/44/EC (hereinafter the "draft law").

According to the authors of the bill, "the main objective of these directives is to promote the
creation of a true digital market in the interest of both consumers and
businesses by eliminating key contract law barriers that impede the
cross-border trade”. The authors of the bill indicate that the guidelines "provide
maximum harmonization rules". The two directives to be transposed "are based on Article
114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the main objective of which is

CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft

law no. 7818.

1 /8

to improve the establishment and operation of the internal market" and are part of the
“[European Union] strategy for a digital single market”.

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill "reforms, on the one hand, in depth the rules
relating to the conformity of tangible movable property of the Chapter relating to the legal guarantee of
compliance with the Consumer Code" and "includes, on the other hand, the introduction of provisions
news regarding contracts for the supply of digital content or services
digital”. The authors of the bill further explain that the bill introduces "
specific provisions for goods with digital elements (the 'smart goods'
such as smartphones, connected watches, digital tablets, e-readers etc.)
especially with regard to their updates”. Then, according to the authors of the bill,
the “new provisions concerning contracts for the supply of digital content or
digital services [...] respond to the unprecedented particularity that the provision of content
digital or digital service may take place [...] in exchange [...] for the supply by [the
consumer] of personal data”. Finally, the bill "puts
subsequently put in place the remedies, and their terms, in the event of failure to supply,
compliance or changes to digital content or digital services”.

Insofar as this draft law transposes Directive (EU) 2019/770 into national law
and Directive (EU) 2019/771 mentioned above, the National Commission refers with regard to
the legal framework of this directive in opinion 4/2017 of 14 March 2017 of the European Supervisor of
data protection (hereinafter the "EDPS") on the proposal for a directive concerning certain
aspects of contracts for the supply of digital content' and will limit its comments to
legal provisions concerning the concrete implementation of this directive in national law
having a potential impact on the protection of personal data.

I. Update of “smart goods”

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill introduces "specific provisions for property
containing digital elements ('smart goods' such as smartphones, watches
connected devices, digital tablets, e-readers, etc.) particularly with regard to their
updates ".

Thus, the new article L.212-16, paragraph 2, of the Consumer Code provides that

“[the trader shall ensure that the consumer is informed of updates, including
including security updates, which are necessary to maintain compliance
digital content or digital service, and receives them during the
period [...]

1 https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/17-03-14 opinion digital content en.pdf
See also: Summary of the opinion on the proposal for a directive concerning certain aspects of contracts of
provision of digital content. Official Journal of the European Union, 2017/C 200/07, 23 June 2017.

CNPD]

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft

law no. 7818.

2/8

Similarly, the new articles L-212-3, first paragraph, letter d), L-212-4, paragraph 3, and L-
212-16, paragraph 2, of the Consumer Code provide for obligations and concepts
similar regarding updates and security updates.

The CNPD welcomes the introduction of such provisions which allow optimal use of these
goods with digital elements. These provisions clarify, independently
other rules such as arising in particular from the GDPR, the obligations of the professional in
connection with the supply of such a good.

The National Commission wishes, however, to point out that, in addition to this
obligation, when the use of the property in question involves the processing of data at
personal nature, Article 32 of the GDPR provides for autonomous obligations in terms of
security measures, in particular that the "controller and the processor put
implement the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of
risk-appropriate security. In this regard, it should be noted that recital 30 of Directive
2019/771 ultimately states that "
this Directive should not affect the
obligations to provide security updates otherwise provided for in Union law or
in national law”.

Recital 48 of Directive 2019/770 further explains that

"[...] a breach of the obligations arising from Regulation (EU) 2016/679 could, in
same time, render the digital content or digital service unsuitable for the purpose
referred to and, consequently, constitute a failure to comply with the objective criterion of
compliance which requires that the digital content or digital service be suitable for the
purposes for which a digital content or digital service would normally serve
of the same type. 1...1

In the same vein, recital 50 of Directive 2019/770 explains that

"When applying the rules of this Directive, traders should
use standards, open technical specifications, best practices and
codes of conduct, including with respect to commonly used data formats
used and machine-readable to extract content other than character data
personal, which was provided or created by the consumer when using the content
digital or digital service, and including those relating to the security of systems
IT and digital environments, whether established at the level
international, Union or sectoral level. »

Thus, in the context of the provision of goods and services involving processing
data, failure to implement adequate security measures (given the state
art) by the data controller or by the subcontractor under their obligations
arising from the GDPR could, where applicable, constitute a lack of compliance with the objective criterion

[ NOC9

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft

law no. 7818.

3/8

of conformity of a good comprising digital elements, even if the contract with the
consumer remains silent on the update of the digital elements.

II. The supply of digital content or digital services in exchange for the

provision of personal data

The authors of the bill specify in the explanatory memorandum that

“The bill introduces new provisions concerning employment contracts.
provision of digital content or digital services. These contracts meet
the unique feature that the supply of digital content or digital service
may take place not only in exchange for the payment of a price by the consumer,
but also of the provision by the latter of personal data”.

Thus, the new article L-212-12, paragraph 1, subparagraph 3 of the Consumer Code provides
that :

“This sub-section also applies when the trader provides or
undertakes to provide digital content or a digital service to the consumer, and
the consumer provides or undertakes to provide personal data to the
professional, except when the personal data provided by the
consumer are exclusively processed by the trader to provide the content
digital service or the digital service in accordance with this subsection or
to enable the professional to fulfill the legal obligations incumbent on him, to
as long as the professional does not process this data for another purpose. »

In the commentary to the articles, the authors present this passage as “[g]reat
novelty and unprecedented provision of Directive 2019/770, contracts by which instead of
pay a price, the consumer provides personal data falls within the scope
application of this subsection. »

Nevertheless, the new article L.212-12, paragraph 8 of the Consumer Code indicates that:

"European Union law on the protection of personal data
personal data applies to all personal data processed in connection with the
contracts referred to in subsection (1).

In particular, this subsection is without prejudice to the [GDPR] and the Directive
2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the
processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the
electronic communications sector. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the
this subsection and those of Union law on data protection
of a personal nature, the latter prevail. »

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft

law no. 7818.

4/8

With particular regard to the provision of digital content or services
digital, the authors of the bill specify in the explanatory memorandum that

“this variety of contracts is reflected in particular by a notable novelty of the text which
is intended to take into consideration as non-monetary consideration for the supply of the
digital content or service, the provision by the consumer of data to
personal character. The directive thus attempts to strike a balance between the protection of
personal data which is a fundamental right and the need to protect the
consumer in transactions within a commercial model based on
the resale of personal data”.

Based on European standards on the fundamental right to respect for life
privacy and the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, the EDPS notes
that it is "very possible that there is a market for personal data [...] but that
does not mean that we can or should give this market the anointing of the law”. So, he
is regrettable that Directive 2017/770, and hence the draft law, suggests that the provision of
personal data can constitute real consideration for a service
services or property, in particular a digital content or service. Indeed, as it follows
moreover explicitly from the new article L.212-12, paragraph 8 of the Consumer Code
aforementioned, the processing of the consumer's personal data by the professional
must comply in all respects with the rules arising from the GDPR and the legislation relating to the
privacy and electronic communications, in particular the rights of individuals
concerned such as the right to erasure and the right to object. In this respect, the CNPD joins
in the opinion of the EDPS who considers in his opinion that "personal data
cannot be compared to a price or to money" and "that the term 'data as
consideration' should be avoided" to avoid confusion with the obligations arising in
particular GDPR.

In this regard, it should be noted that recital 38 of Directive 2019/770 specifies that

“this Directive should not regulate the conditions applicable to the processing
lawful personal data, this matter being regulated, in particular,
by the [GDPR]. Therefore, processing of personal data in connection with a
contract falling within the scope of this Directive is lawful only if it is
in accordance with the provisions of the [GDPR] concerning the legal bases for processing
personal data”.

In any case, the CNPD nevertheless welcomes the fact that the consumer can benefit
the same guarantees provided for by the Consumer Code in relation to contracts that are
called "free", that is to say without monetary compensation, relating to goods and services
digital media, including the provision of digital content.

[ NOC9.

1

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft

law no. 7818.

5/8

III. Means of appeal

According to the explanatory memorandum, the bill "subsequently puts in place the remedies, and their
terms, in the event of a lack of supply, non-compliance or even changes to the
digital content or digital services”.

Thus, the new article L. 212-6, paragraph 1, of the Consumer Code provides that:

"In the event of a lack of conformity, the consumer has the right, under the conditions laid down
to this article, to the bringing into conformity of the goods, to a proportional reduction of the
price, or at the termination of the contract. »

The new article L. 212-21, paragraph 1, of the Consumer Code provides for a provision
similar for contracts for the supply of digital content or a digital service.

The authors of the bill specify in the commentary to this article that "when the content
or the digital service was provided in exchange for the data consumer supplying
of a personal nature, the consumer has the right to rescind the contract (he cannot sufficiently
logically benefit from a price reduction).

As mentioned above, recital 48 of Directive 2019/770 explains that:

"[...] a breach of the obligations arising from Regulation (EU) 2016/679 could, in
same time, render the digital content or digital service unsuitable for the purpose
referred to and, consequently, constitute a failure to comply with the objective criterion of
compliance which requires that the digital content or digital service be suitable for the
purposes for which a digital content or digital service would normally serve
of the same type.

This would be the case, for example, if the data encryption software professional does not
did not implement the appropriate measures required by Regulation (EU) 2016/679
to ensure that personal data by design is not
disclosed to unauthorized recipients, which would render the encryption software
unsuitable for its purpose, namely the secure transfer of data by the consumer to
their intended recipients. Finally, there could be cases where failure by the
professional, of the obligations incumbent upon him under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 may
also constitute a lack of conformity of the digital content or service
digital to the objective criterion of conformity which requires that the digital content or the
digital service has the characteristics that are normal for content
digital or digital services of the same type and to which the consumer
can reasonably be expected. For example, if a professional offering a
online sales application does not take the measures provided for by Regulation (EU)
2016/679 to ensure the secure processing of the personal data of the
consumer and that, therefore, the information related to the credit card of the

[ CNPII

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft

law no. 7818.

6/8

consumer are exposed to malware or spyware, which
failure could also constitute a lack of conformity of the content
digital or digital service within the meaning of this Directive, given that the
consumer could reasonably expect that an application of this type
normally has characteristics preventing the disclosure of its contact details
banking. »

The facts which lead to non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Regulation (EU)
2016/679, including its basic principles such as the requirements for
data minimization, data protection by design and protection
default data, may also, depending on the circumstances, be considered
as failures of conformity of the digital content or the digital service with the
subjective or objective conformity criteria provided for in this Directive. An example
could be that of a professional who makes an explicit commitment in the contract to
fulfill an obligation, or where the contract can be interpreted as such, and where this
obligation is also linked to the obligations of the professional provided for by the regulation
(EU) 2016/679. In this case, such a contractual commitment may become an integral part
subjective conformity criteria.

[...] When the facts at the origin of the non-compliance with the requirements provided for by the regulation
(EU) 2016/679 also constitute a lack of conformity of the digital content or
of the digital service to the subjective or objective conformity criteria as they are
provided for in this Directive, the consumer should be entitled to remedies for
lack of conformity provided for in this Directive, unless the contract is already
void or voidable under national law. »

It is thus to be welcomed that, for violations of the GDPR in connection with the provision of content
digital, a digital service or a good comprising digital elements, the
consumer benefits from the aforementioned remedies, in addition to the remedies normally
available for breaches of data protection regulations ä
personal nature and invasions of privacy, in particular Article 82 of the GDPR. In this regard,
it is worth recalling recital 48 of Directive 2019/770 which specifies that "Do not settle
(EU) 2016/679 or any other provision of Union data protection law
should fully apply to the processing of personal data in connection with any
contract falling within the scope of this Directive. In addition, this directive
should apply without prejudice to non-contractual rights, obligations and remedies
provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

However, it is not easy to determine on the basis of which elements the consumer will be able
effectively prove the non-conformity of the contract on the basis of a violation of the provisions
applicable to data protection. On the one hand, the mere allegation of such
violation brought against a professional does not seem sufficient to demonstrate a
such non-compliance. On the other hand, the requirement for the consumer of a final decision to

[ CNPD

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft

law no. 7818.

7/8

against the controller or a processor on the part of the supervisory authority
(in this case the CNPD) or in the context of a judicial appeal seems to place a charge
excessive evidence on the consumer, in particular by conditioning the exercise of his
recourse — in particular the termination of a contract — to potentially long and
possibly depending on a margin of appreciation of an authority having the opportunity
of action. Thus, the CNPD wonders if it would not be useful to detail how the
consumer can provide proof of such non-compliance.

Beyond the civil law remedies available to the consumer, there is the question of the
implementation of the professional's liability, in particular when the termination of the contract
arises from a failure to meet subjective or objective criteria based on a breach of
obligations arising from the GDPR. Although the right to a class action is not covered by the
two directives, the CNPD is taking advantage of this opinion to support the introduction of such a system in
Luxembourg law. Thus, it had already called for the introduction of a provision
providing for this possibility of collective redress or "class action" for questions of
data protection, in the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the Commission
national data protection system and the general data protection regime.
Article 80, paragraph (2) of the GDPR moreover explicitly indicates that the Member States
may provide for this possibility in accordance with their national law, which is however not the
cases to date in Luxembourg. Such a possibility could still be introduced if necessary.
through Bill No. 7650 introducing collective redress in the law of the
consumption, including compensation for damage resulting from an infringement of the protection
personal or privacy data.

Thus decided in Belvaux on October 1 and 2021.

The National Data Protection Commission

(74.fi/

P.A&72

Tine A. Larsen
President

Thierry Lallemang

Commissioner

Lemmer bow
Commissioner

Alain Hermann
Commissioner

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection on the draft

law no. 7818.

818

