1/9

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00408/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 28, 2018, a claim has been filed with this Agency
formulated by Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), stating that
the company CHAPAUTO SPORT, S.L., (hereinafter, the claimed party), processes data
without providing the interested parties with the information provided for in the regulations of
Data Protection.

In particular, the claimant indicates that he has not been informed by the respondent
about your rights of rectification and cancellation of data in relation to the
treatment of your personal data.

The claimant provides the following documentation of the claimed, in which no
contains no information regarding the processing of personal data
concerning the claimant that are included in this type of document:

-Copy of the budget dated 02/12/2018, in which "A.A.A." is identified,
with mobile phone ***TELEFONO.1, as the owner of a vehicle of the brand
“Mercedes”, model “Clas-C”, for the work to be carried out in “Capo Pelayo. Rest €550.”
-Copy of the budget dated 03/06/2017, in which “A.A.A.”
with mobile phone ***TELEFONO.1, as the owner of a vehicle “Mercedes,
license plate 1380 HJN”, for the work to be carried out “rear wing 80 €.

- Copy of delivery note dated 02/26/2018, issued in the name of “A.A.A.” in
relation to a "Mercedes class C" vehicle, with the description "Integer + Trim 570
—. The document bears the seal of TALLER CHAPAUTO SPORT, S.L., which
In addition, it appears signed.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the following is observed:

The budget model provided contains the following sections relating to
to personal information to be provided by the client or interested party: Data
identification, DNI/NIF/NIE, address and telephone number; Make, model and license plate
of the vehicle whose repair is the object of the estimate. There is also a space for
the Customer's signature of consent.

The delivery note model provided contains the following sections related to
personal information to be provided by the client or interested party: identification
of the client, DNI/CIF, Address and Population of the same. There is also a space for
signature of the "Client Agreement"

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Said claim was transferred to the respondent, dated September 4,
2018, this Agency receives the following response from the respondent in relation to
with the request for information made on August 23, 2018 referring to
reported facts:

"We disagree with the terms of the complaint since in the
The attached documentation does not show that this company has in its possession any
data of the complainant.
There is no name, ID or address, or any other data that could be subject to
protection. Just a first name and phone number.

The rest of the documentation has been provided to the Insurance Company,

but not to this company.”

In said answer, the respondent does not inform, as required, about
the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the claim or about the
measures taken to prevent similar incidents from occurring.

   Consulted on January 16, 2018, the application of the AEPD that
THIRD:
 
manages the query of precedent sanctions and warnings, it is
verifies that the claimed party does not have previous records.

FOURTH: On January 30, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure of Warning to the
entity CHAPAUTO SPORT, S.L., in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b)
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27
April 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to
treatment of personal data and the free circulation of these data, (hereinafter
RGPD), for the infringement of article 13 of the aforementioned RGPD, typified in article
83.5.b) thereof.
FIFTH: Once the aforementioned initiation agreement was notified, on March 1, 2019,
records of entry in this Agency written of allegations of the claimed arguing,
in short, the following:

- That they have contracted a consultancy specializing in the protection of
data in order to implement the process of adaptation to current regulations on
of data protection.

- They recognize that existing deficiencies must be remedied, such as

informative clauses.

-

They indicate that the causes that gave rise to the facts object of the claim
have been "the lack of complete adaptation of our entity to the regulations in force in
matter of data protection. Mistakenly thinking that by collecting only
a “given” name and a telephone number was not subject to the regulations in force in
matter of data protection. Having consulted with the Consultant, you understand and
accepts this part that was not completely adapted and from it arises the current
process"

- As corrective measures, in addition to contracting the aforementioned Consulting,
the informative clause has been incorporated into the documentation used, being
provided with the data collection. The respondent provides a copy of the clause

3/9

informative, its content being described in Proven Fact number Four of
this resolution.

SIXTH: In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

FACTS

FIRST: On June 28, 2018, a claim has been filed with the AEPD
made by the claimant showing that the company CHAPAUTO
SPORT, S.L. does not comply with the duty of information provided for in the protection regulations
data, even though it collects personal data provided by customers or
affected holders of that data.

SECOND: The documents provided by the claimant (budgets and delivery notes)
contain sections relating to personal information to be provided by the
client or interested party, such as identification data, DNI/NIF/NIE, address,
population, telephone of the same, make, model and license plate of the vehicle owned by the
client or affected.
THIRD: On September 4, 2018, the respondent files a letter in the
AEPD in which it does not certify having adopted any type of measure tending to give
compliance with the duty to inform the interested parties contained in article 13 of the
GDPR.
FOURTH: On March 1, 2019, the respondent files a letter with the AEPD to
which attaches a copy of a document called "Budget Informative Clause",
in which the following points are reported:

Identity and contact details of the data controller (the complainant),
purpose of the treatment (management of the budget of the works entrusted to the
responsible), legitimizing basis of the treatment (contractual relationship), term of
data conservation, possibility of exercising access rights,
rectification, limitation of treatment, deletion (right to be forgotten), portability and
Opposition, revocation of the consent given for the processing of data, and
presentation of a claim before the Control Authority. In the field of transfers
informs about the categories of recipients to whom the data is communicated with the
purpose of providing the service and its legitimizing basis, noting that the fact of not
facilitating the damage to said entities implies that it will not be possible to comply with the provision
of services.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that articles 55.1, 56.2 and 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27,
2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment
of personal data and the free circulation of these data, recognize each authority
of control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD establishes that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85.1 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (LPACAP), under the rubric
“Termination in sanctioning procedures”, provides that: “1. started a
sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility, it may be
resolve the procedure with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.”

In the present case, the content of the allegations made by the
claimed evidences the acknowledgment of its responsibility in relation to the
facts that are the subject of this proceeding, proceeding, therefore, the resolution of the
procedure with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

III

Article 4 of the RGPD, under the heading "Definitions", provides that: "For the purposes

of this Regulation shall be understood as:

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection by the
claimed identification data, telephone numbers and vehicle license plates of
its clients within the framework of the existing contractual relationship between the parties, constitutes
a treatment of personal data, in respect of which the claimed party, in his/her condition
responsible for the treatment, must comply with the provisions of article 13
GDPR

5/9

IV

Article 12 of the RGPD, referring to the “Transparency of information,
communication and modalities of exercising the rights of the interested party”, in its
Section 1 establishes the following:

"1. The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate
to the interested party all the information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language,
in particular any information directed specifically at a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.”

In the present case, the defendant is charged with the violation of the duty to
inform provided for in article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that regarding the "Information
that must be provided when the personal data is obtained from the interested party.”,
determines that:

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis

legal treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the

legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,

in your case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to
data portability;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of
not provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

For its part, regarding the rights of “Transparency and information to the
affected”, article 11.1 and 2 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), establishes that:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person in charge
of the treatment may comply with the duty of information established in the
Article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 providing the affected party with basic information
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must be

contain at least:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, in his

case.

b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

v

7/9

In this proceeding it has been proven that after 25
of May 2018, date from which the aforementioned was fully applicable
RGPD, the defendant collected in various documents personal data from
of its clients (identification data, telephone number of the owner of the vehicle or client and
license plate of the vehicle to be repaired), without offering them the required information regarding
of data protection provided for in article 13 of the aforementioned RGPD.

 Likewise, it is stated in the procedure that the defendant, in order to regularize the
described situation, has adopted measures tending to offer the interested parties that
provide your personal data with information on data protection that,
in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 13 of the RGPD, it must offer, in the
at the time of collection, to those affected whose personal data it collects.

In order to justify said circumstance, the respondent has attached to his writ of
allegations copy of the document prepared to comply with the duty of
inform in the cases in which the personal data is obtained from the affected party.
After analyzing the information offered in said document, called "Clause
Informative Budgets”, it is observed that the person in charge of the treatment facilitates the
information required in article 13 of the RGPD, as follows from the Fact
Tested number four. In this case, the informative clause provided by the
claimed is dated and signed by a person identified at the bottom
of the same with your name, surnames and DNI.

From the reasoning it follows that the defendant has rectified his conduct
implementing a mechanism through which to respond to the duty to inform
that concerns him in cases such as the one studied.

What does not prevent him from being responsible for having failed to comply with said
obligation to inform, specifically between May 25, 2018 and the moment in which
went on to inform the interested parties to whom it collected their personal data of the
requirements contemplated in the aforementioned article 13 of the RGPD, which undoubtedly occurred
after September 4, 2018, the date on which when answering the
request for information made by this Agency as a result of the transfer of the
claim did not justify the adoption of measures aimed at regularizing the situation.

v

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD provide the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

Article 83 of the RGPD, under the heading “General conditions for the

imposition of administrative fines”, in its sections 2 and 5.b) states that:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). (…)

5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount: (...)

b) The rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;”.
For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
this organic law.”, establishing in article 72.1.h) of said Law that: “1. In
According to the provisions of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following: (...)

g)

The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of
your personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

From what has been reasoned, it is evident that the respondent has failed to comply with the duty to
inform those affected about the aspects outlined in article 13 of the RGPD
in relation to personal data collected from them to complete
different documents, which constitutes an infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the
RGPD in its relationship with the provisions of sections 1 and 2 of article 11 of the
LOPDGDD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD and qualified as very serious to
effects of prescription in article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD.

In the present case, it is deemed appropriate to impose the sanction of
warning provided for in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD in view of the following
circumstances: it is a company whose main activity is not
linked to the usual treatment of personal data and consider that
the administrative fine that could fall in accordance with the provisions of article
83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for said company, which
has accredited having regularized the lack of information described after receiving the
agreement to initiate the procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

9/9

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CHAPAUTO SPORT, S.L., with NIF B87854030,
 of
In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, a sanction of
WARNING as responsible for the commission of an infraction of the provisions of
article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CHAPAUTO SPORT, S.L. with NIF
B87854030.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

