1/13

 Procedure No.: PS/00128/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim filed by D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant)
has entry dated 05/07/2019 in the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.
The claim is directed against CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1, with NIF
P3002000B (hereinafter the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are
In summary: that on 03/20/2019 he sent a letter to the respondent requesting information
on certain questions related to the control of signing by fingerprint
fingerprint, without having received a response to the request made to date.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 07/01/2019, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the complainant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required him to send to the determined Agency within a period of one month
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On 08/08/2019, in response to the request for information, Document was
Security where it is reported in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD and indicates,
among others, that the agency used to control presence and access to its
installations a fingerprint detection system that does not perform in any
moment a biometric analysis, but it elaborates an identification algorithm as a result of
a reading of several points of the personal fingerprint and that the data of the algorithm does not
they cannot be decrypted or disassembled by any unauthorized entity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

And in response to a new request for information, in a letter dated 10/21/2019, it provided the
report on impact assessment in the treatment of fingerprint data
to control the presence of employees.

THIRD: On 11/25/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed.

FOURTH: On 09/30/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, contemplated in article 83.5.b) of the aforementioned
Regulation, considering that the sanction that could correspond would be that of
warning.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 05/07/2019 there is a written entry in the AEPD presented by the
interested party against the defendant stating that on 03/20/2019 he addressed the same
requesting information on the control of signing by fingerprint of
in accordance with the provisions of the data protection regulations of
personal nature, without a response to said date having been obtained to date.
request.

SECOND: It consists provided by the claimant letter addressed to the claimed requesting
the information in accordance with the RGPD.

THIRD: Evidence provided by the respondent in writing dated 10/21/2019 Report
Evaluation of the Impact of the treatment of the data of the fingerprint for control of
presence of employees. Likewise, it provides a security document and a
company Syon, Solutions & Identification, on fingerprints of the
workers.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed
responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
If you do not make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

The legitimacy for the treatment of the fingerprint for the control of the
workers by the employer we must look for it in articles 9 and 6 of the RGPD.

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

Article 9 of the RGPD establishes in its sections 1 and 2.b) the following:

"1. The processing of personal data that reveals the origin
racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical convictions, or
union affiliation, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at
uniquely identify a natural person, data related to health or data
relating to the sexual life or sexual orientations of a natural person.

2. Section 1 will not apply when one of the

following circumstances:

b) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of obligations and the
exercise of specific rights of the person in charge of the treatment or of the interested party in
the field of labor law and social security and protection, to the extent
that is authorized by the Law of the Union of the Member States or a convention
in accordance with the law of the Member States that establishes guarantees
respect for fundamental rights and the interests of the
interested."

Article 6.1.b) of the RGPD indicates:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual.”

The defendant has legitimacy, based on the aforementioned regulations, to
carry out the labor control of its workers, provided that it meets the requirements
indicated in the sixth Legal Basis.

The claimed facts suppose the violation by the City Council of
what is stated in article 13 of the RGPD, by not informing of the treatment provided for in
in relation to the control of signing by fingerprint, in accordance with the
pronouncements established in the aforementioned article.
 

This article determines the information that must be provided to the interested party

at the time of collecting your data, establishing the following:
 

Article 13. Information that must be provided when personal data is

obtain from the interested party.

1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis
legal treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the
legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,
in your case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a
adequacy decision of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers
indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph,
reference to adequate or appropriate safeguards and means of obtaining
a copy of these or the fact that they have been loaned.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or
the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the
right to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw the
consent at any time, without affecting the legality of the
treatment based on consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is
obliged to provide personal data and is informed of the possible
consequences of not providing such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and
anticipated consequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, prior to said further treatment, information
for that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in

to the extent that the interested party already has the information.

In the present case, the claimant addressed the respondent in writing
requesting information on the control of signing by fingerprint,

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

considering that it could be violating the regulations on the protection of
data without obtaining a response to said request.

The documentation provided to the file does not include the response offered to the
claimant and, as stated in the second antecedent in response to the
information request sent by the AEPD the respondent provides Document is
Security in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD, noting that the body
local used said system of control of presence and access to its facilities that
does not entail at any time a biometric analysis, but rather a
identification algorithm based on a reading of several points of the personal fingerprint and
that the algorithm data cannot be decrypted or disassembled by any
unauthorized entity. Likewise, the report on Impact Assessment was provided.
in the treatment of the data of the fingerprint for the control of the presence of the
employees.

In relation to the issues raised in this case, first of all
It should be noted that the implementation and integration of a time control system
based on the fingerprint by the employer, has to be informed to the
employees in a complete, clear, concise manner and, in addition, the aforementioned information must
be completed with reference to both the legal bases that cover said type
of access control, as well as the basic information referred to in the
article 13 of the RGPD.

In the case examined, it is true that there is no record of the respondent's response to the
document presented by the claimant in which he requested to be informed of the moment in
that the information was provided to the workers of the fingerprint registration system
fingerprint and reiterate such information.

Second, the installation of a control system based on the collection
and treatment of the fingerprint of the employees implies the treatment of their data
personal since personal data is all information about a person
physical identified or identifiable in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD.

As for the fingerprint, it is also about data that must be qualified.
two as biometric data and in accordance with article 4.14 of the RGPD have this
consideration when they have been “obtained from a technical treatment
specific, relating to the physical, physiological or behavioral characteristics of a
natural person that allow or confirm the unique identification of said person,
such as facial images or fingerprint data.

This means that, in accordance with article 9.1 of the RGPD, in the case
present, the specific regime provided for special categories is applied to them
of data provided for in article 9 of the RGPD.

In this sense, recital 51 of the RGPD highlights the nature

restrictive with which the treatment of this data can be admitted:

“(51) ... Such personal data should not be processed, unless it is allowed
their treatment in specific situations contemplated in this Regulation,
given that Member States may lay down provisions

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

specific on data protection in order to adapt the application of the
rules of this Regulation to the fulfillment of a legal obligation or to the
fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
data conferred on the data controller. In addition to the requirements
specific to that treatment, the general principles and other
rules of this Regulation, in particular as regards the conditions of
legality of the treatment. Exceptions to the
general prohibition of treatment of those special categories of personal data,
among other things when the interested party gives his explicit consent or in the case of
specific needs, in particular when the treatment is carried out in the
framework of legitimate activities by certain associations or foundations whose
objective is to allow the exercise of fundamental freedoms.

And recital 52 states that

“(52) Likewise, exceptions to the prohibition of treating
special categories of personal data when established by the Law of the
Union or of the Member States and provided that the appropriate guarantees are given, in order to
to protect personal data and other fundamental rights, when it is in the interest
public, in particular the processing of personal data in the field of legislation
employment, legislation on social protection, including pensions and for purposes of
security, supervision and health alert, prevention or control of diseases
communicable diseases and other serious threats to health…”

In accordance with these considerations, the treatment of biometric data of
special categories will require, in addition to the concurrence of one of the bases
legal provisions established in article 6 of the RGPD, any of the exceptions provided
in article 9.2 of the RGPD.

The analysis of the legal basis of legitimacy to carry out this treatment comes
of article 6 of the RGPD, regarding the legality of the treatment, which in its section 1, letter
b) states: "The treatment will be lawful if at least one of the following is met:
conditions: (...) b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in the
that the interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual (…)”.

By virtue of this precept, the treatment would be lawful and would not require the
consent, when the data processing is carried out for the fulfillment of
labor contractual relationships.

This precept would also cover the data processing of
public employees, even if their relationship is not contractual in the strict sense. There are
It should be noted that sometimes, in order to fulfill its obligations in relation to
with public employees, the Administration must carry out treatment of
certain data referred to in the RGPD, in its article 9, as "categories
special data”.

On the other hand, and as highlighted in recital 51 of the same RGPD,
to the extent that the biometric data are of a special category in the cases
of biometric identification (art. 9.1 RGPD), it will be necessary that one of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

the exceptions provided for in article 9.2 of the RGPD that would allow lifting the
general prohibition of the treatment of these types of data established in the article
9.1.

At this point, special mention must be made of letter b) of article 9.2 of the
RGPD, according to which the general prohibition of biometric data processing does not
It will apply when "the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of
obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or
of the interested party in the field of labor law and social security and protection,
to the extent authorized by the Law of the Union of the Member States or
a collective agreement in accordance with the law of the Member States establishing
adequate guarantees of respect for fundamental rights and the interests of the
interested".

In the Spanish legal system, article 20 of the Consolidated Text of the Statute of
workers (TE), approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, of 23
October, provides for the possibility for the employer to adopt surveillance measures and
control to verify compliance with the labor obligations of their
workers:

"3. The employer may adopt the measures it deems most appropriate
monitoring and control to verify compliance by the worker with their obligations
and labor duties, keeping in its adoption and application the consideration due to
their dignity and taking into account, where appropriate, the real capacity of the workers
with disabilities”.

And in the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, approved by Royal Decree
Legislative 5/2015, of October 30, in its article 54 in relation to the principles of
 “The unemployment of tasks
conduct of public employees states:
corresponding to his job will be highlighted diligently and in compliance with the
established day and time

It should also be noted that the basic legislation of the local regime attributes to the
Mayor President of the Corporation the direction of the government and administration
municipal as well as exercise the superior direction of the personnel at the service of the
Municipal administration.

The possibility of using data-based systems is undeniable
biometrics to carry out access and time control, although it does not seem
that it is or should be the only system that can be used: thus the use of cards
personal codes, the use of personal codes, the direct visualization of the point of
marking, etc., which may constitute, by themselves or in combination with any of the
the other available systems, equally effective measures to carry out the
control.

In any case, prior to the decision on the start-up
of such a control system and taking into account its implications,
processing of biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a
natural person, it would be mandatory to carry out an impact assessment regarding the
protection of personal data to assess both the legitimacy of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

treatment and its proportionality such as the determination of existing risks and
the measures to mitigate them in accordance with the provisions of article 35 RGPD.

In the present case, it must be stated that the entity has accredited the
mandatory impact assessment related to data protection regulated in the
article 35 of the RGPD providing the corresponding document.

Biometric data is closely linked to a person, given
that they can use a certain unique property of an individual for their
identification or authentication.

SAW

According to Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of biometric technologies,
“Biometric data irrevocably changes the relationship between the body and
identity, as they make the features of the human body legible
by machines and are subject to further use.”

In relation to them, the Opinion specifies that different types of
treatments by pointing out that "Biometric data can be processed and stored in
different ways. Sometimes the biometric information captured from a person is
stored and treated raw, which allows the source from which it comes to be recognized without
special knowledge; for example, a photograph of a face, a photograph of a
fingerprint or voice recording. Other times, raw biometric information
captured is treated in such a way that only certain characteristics or traits are extracted and
they are saved as a biometric template.”

The processing of this data is expressly permitted by the RGPD
when the employer has a legal basis, which is usually the
Work contract. In this regard, the STS of July 2, 2007 (Rec. 5017/2003), has
legitimate understanding of the treatment of biometric data carried out by the Administration
for the time control of its public employees, without the need for
prior consent of the workers.

However, the following should be noted:

O The worker must be informed about these treatments.

O The principles of purpose limitation, necessity,

proportionality and minimization of data.

In any case, the treatment must also be adequate, pertinent and not
excessive for that purpose. Therefore, biometric data that is not
necessary for that purpose should be abolished and the creation will not always be justified.
of a biometric database (Opinion 3/2012 of the Art. 29 Working Group).

O Use of biometric templates: Biometric data should be stored
as biometric templates whenever possible. The template must be extracted from
a way that is specific to the biometric system in question and not used
by other controllers of similar systems in order to ensure that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

a person can only be identified in biometric systems that have
a legal basis for this operation.

O The biometric system used and the security measures chosen must
ensure that reuse of the biometric data in question is not possible
for another purpose.

O Mechanisms based on encryption technologies should be used in order to

prevent unauthorized reading, copying, modification or deletion of biometric data.

O Biometric systems should be designed in such a way that they can be revoked

the identity bond.

O You should choose to use specific data formats or technologies that
prevent the interconnection of biometric databases and the disclosure of data
not checked.

O Biometric data must be deleted when they are not linked to the
purpose that motivated its treatment and, if possible, should be implemented
automated data deletion mechanisms.

SAW

Article 83.5. b) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the rights of
those interested in accordance with articles 12 to 22”, is punishable, in accordance with the
section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, "with fines
administrative fees of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates for prescription purposes: "Infringements

considered very serious:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.
(…)”

7th

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

However, the LOPDGDD in its article 77,

 Regime applicable to
certain categories of controllers or processors, establishes the
Next:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and
sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In the case that concerns us and as indicated previously, the
This sanctioning procedure shows that the defendant has not informed
adequately in relation to the control of presence and access to its facilities
municipal authorities through a fingerprint system, an arbitrated procedure where the
affected develops its activity.

In accordance with the evidence available to said conduct

constitutes an infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

However, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of article 83,
contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of resorting to the sanction of warning
to correct the processing of personal data that is not in accordance with your
forecasts, when those responsible or in charge listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

 ***LOCATION.1, with NIF
FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF
P3002000B, for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.b) of the RGPD, a penalty of warning in accordance with article 77.2
of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCATION.1, with NIF P3002000B.

 : REQUEST the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1, with NIF
THIRD
 
P3002000B, so that within a month from the notification of this resolution,
accredits before the AEPD the adoption of the necessary and pertinent measures to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

correct the processing of personal data that is not in accordance with the regulations in
matter of protection of personal data and prevent their recurrence
violations such as those that have given rise to the claim correcting the effects of
infringement, establishing the necessary measures to adapt to the requirements
contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD.

FOURTH:
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

