1/7

 File No.: PS/00084/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated October 16, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against AURORA ENERGY SUPPLY S.L. with CIF B17657719
(hereinafter AURORA) The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

“Yesterday, October 15, I received 160 emails from the ASICXXI company, to which
my electric company Aurora Energy Supply has contracted as a provider of
computer services of the company. These emails were addressed to all
customers, and in these mails you can read the email addresses of
clients, including mine, revealing everyone's private information
the clients"

Along with the claim, provide a copy of one of the emails in which
The email addresses of a plurality of customers are listed.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to AURORA so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

On 01/12/2021, this Agency received a written response indicating:

-On 10/15/2020 they detected an attempt to scam their clients, by means of a call
phone, threatening to cut off the electricity supply if they did not give up their data
personal and banking

-Given this fact, they decided to contact their clients by email,
which was sent to the company ASIC XXI S.L., with CIF B99276917, (hereinafter,
ASIC), a company with which they have a computer services contract, being one of
them sending communications to customers. On 10/15/2021, ASIC proceeded to
sending the email making the mistake of not blind copying the
recipients, causing the sending of a mass mail.

-On 10/16/2021, ASIC sends an email to AURORA communicating the error
committed and assuming its responsibility.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

THIRD: On January 16, 2021, the application was admitted for processing.
claim filed by the claimant.

FOURTH: On December 2, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against ASIC, for the alleged
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and Article 32 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: On January 13, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
sanction ASIC XXI, S.L., with CIF B99276917, with a WARNING for a
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, and with
a WARNING for an infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.4 of the RGPD.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is proven that ASIC sent an email to clients of
AURORA ENERGY SUPPLY S.L., making the mistake of not blind copying
recipients, causing the sending of a mass email.

SECOND: It is proven, according to ASIC, that this fact was due to a
isolated error, and that measures have been taken to prevent it from returning
to occur in the future.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the RGPD, it consists
carrying out personal data processing, since ASIC performs, among

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

other treatments, the use of the following personal data of people
physical, such as: name, email address, etc. ASIC does this
activity in its capacity as data processor, given that it processes this data
on behalf of AURORA ENERGY SUPPLY S.L., which is responsible for
this treatment in question, all under article 4.8 of the RGPD.

ASIC is accused of committing an infraction for violation of article 5.1.f) of the
RGPD, and for violation of article 32 of the RGPD.

III

Article 5.1.f) “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD could lead to the commission of the
offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the heading "Conditions
rules for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of EUR 20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
as a maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as the
that are contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the statute of limitations, article 72 “Infringements considered
very serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the
infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

Since it has been shown throughout the procedural instruction that ASIC has
disseminated personal data of the complaining party and 160 other people, without their
consent, by sending at least, according to the documentation in the file,
mass email without blind copying, thus allowing each of the
recipients had access to the email address of the rest, it is
accredited the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation provides
in section 2.b) of article 58 "Powers" the following:

IV

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment
when the treatment operations have infringed the provisions of the
this Regulation; (…)”

For its part, recital 148 of the RGPD indicates:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

Article 32 “Security of treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

v

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

The aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the RGPD could lead to the commission of the
offenses typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD, which under the heading "Conditions
rules for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
of the treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

From the instruction carried out in this procedure, it is considered that ASIC
has breached the provisions of article 32 of the RGPD, by not having the measures
appropriate organizational and technical measures to prevent the sending of an email without
hidden copy. It is, therefore, accredited, the infringement of the aforementioned article.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

SAW

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation provides
in section 2.b) of article 58 "Powers" the following:

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment
when the treatment operations have infringed the provisions of the
this Regulation; (…)”

For its part, recital 148 of the RGPD indicates:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

7th

FIRST: Direct ASIC XXI, S.L., with CIF B99276917, for an infringement of the
Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

Address ASIC XXI, S.L., with CIF B99276917, for an infraction of Article 32 of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ASIC XXI, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-100322

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

