Decision

Diary no

2019-02-21

DI-2018-XXXX

Supervision according to the data protection regulation
2016/679 – camera surveillance
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority closes the case without further action.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has received complaints about unauthorized camera surveillance at
a condominium. In response to the complaint, the Data Inspection Authority has initiated
supervision of the condominium owners.
The complainant has stated that the condominium owners have pointed a camera at them
the complainant's patio and three cameras facing a cycle path.
In the review of the camera surveillance, it has emerged in the main
following.
The condominium in question is used exclusively as a private residence.
The notifier has submitted pictures and stated that it is on the house wall
a camera that is aimed at the neighbor's adjacent private patio. Next to
the patio there is a plank that largely covers the camera's
catchment area. Furthermore, the notifier has submitted pictures of
three more cameras that are aimed at the condominium owners' plot as well as towards
a cycle path. The condominium owners have stated that they had for a week
two cameras up in order to monitor their own garden until a new patio door
would be installed, but that these cameras were installed. Some surveillance
outside the own plot boundary must not have taken place. The condominium owners have further
came in with a sales ad on the house where the ad's pictures show that
there are no cameras mounted on the house.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (3)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

Justification of the decision
Provisions on which the decision is based
Data Protection Regulation 2016/6791 (Data Protection Regulation)
and the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200) regulates how and to what extent
camera surveillance is permitted. If a surveillance camera catches one
identifiable person or any other personal data in the image apply to the rules in
data protection regulation. This is apparent from Article 2.1 i
data protection regulation.
From article 2.2 c of the data protection regulation and section 5 of the camera surveillance act
it appears that the rules, however, do not apply to such
personal data processing or camera surveillance carried out by a physical
person as part of an activity of a purely private nature or that is related
with his or her household. This is called the private exemption.
Of the ECJ case C 212/13, where the private exception in relation to
camera surveillance was tried, it appears that a private person who through camera
monitors location that is outside its private sphere is not covered
the private exemption.
When a private person is monitoring a place outside their private sphere, they must
therefore all legal requirements in the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance law is fulfilled. This means, among other things, that the
personal data controller must have a legitimate interest in monitoring which
outweighs the privacy interest at the site. About the purpose of the surveillance
can be achieved in a less privacy-infringing way, this option should be chosen
instead. In addition, the person monitoring must, among other things, clearly inform about who
who guards, what the purpose of the guarding is, and where the person being guarded can go
contact for further information and claiming theirs
data protection rights.2

1

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
2 Follows from articles 5, 6 and 12-15 of the data protection regulation.

2 (3)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority questions the condominium owners' statement that only two
cameras have been mounted on the house because they within the scope of the complaint
the submitted images clearly show that four different cameras were mounted on the house
facade. However, whether these cameras processed personal data is not
possible to determine with the support of the investigation.
Furthermore, the Data Inspectorate makes the assessment that through
the tenants' information has been shown that the present cameras are
dismantled, whereby automatic personal data processing through
monitoring cannot take place. The provisions of the data protection regulation apply
therefore not. In light of this, the matter shall be closed without further action.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Nils Henckel. At the final processing has
also chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom participated.
Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2019-02-21 (This is an electronic signature)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. If the appeal has arrived in time send
The Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

3 (3)

