Decision

Diary no

2019-02-21

DI-2018-XXXX

Supervision according to the data protection regulation
2016/679 – camera surveillance
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority closes the case without further action.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has received complaints about unauthorized camera surveillance on a
real estate. As a result of the complaint, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has initiated supervision
against the property owners.
The complainant has stated that the property owners have pointed a camera at them
applicant's garden.
In the review of the camera surveillance, it has emerged in the main
following.
The property in question is used exclusively as a private residence. On
the house wall in a conservatory, there is a camera mounted on the facade. The camera is
directed towards the adjacent neighbour's residence.
The property owners have stated that the camera is no longer functional at that time
burglars destroyed it in a burglary in 2016. The property owners have
came in with a police report that corroborates their information as well as pictures that
shows that the wiring to the camera has been torn away. The property owners use, however
still the camera as a dummy.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (3)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

Justification of the decision
Provisions on which the decision is based
Data Protection Regulation 2016/6791 (Data Protection Regulation)
and the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200) regulates how and to what extent
camera surveillance is permitted. If a surveillance camera catches one
identifiable person or any other personal data in the image apply to the rules in
data protection regulation. This is apparent from Article 2.1 i
data protection regulation.
From article 2.2 c of the data protection regulation and section 5 of the camera surveillance act
it appears that the rules, however, do not apply to such
personal data processing or camera surveillance carried out by a physical
person as part of an activity of a purely private nature or that is related
with his or her household. This is called the private exemption.
Of the ECJ case C 212/13, where the private exception in relation to
camera surveillance was tried, it appears that a private person who through camera
monitors location that is outside its private sphere is not covered
the private exemption.
When a private person is monitoring a place outside their private sphere, they must
therefore all legal requirements in the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance law is fulfilled. This means, among other things, that the
personal data controller must have a legitimate interest in monitoring which
outweighs the privacy interest at the site. About the purpose of the surveillance
can be achieved in a less privacy-infringing way, this option should be selected
instead. In addition, the person monitoring must, among other things, clearly inform about who
who guards, what the purpose of the guarding is, and where the person being guarded can go
contact for further information and claiming theirs
data protection rights.2

1

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
2 Follows from articles 5, 6 and 12-15 of the data protection regulation.

2 (3)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Data Inspectorate makes the assessment that through information in the police report
as well as the property owner's images on the camera have been shown that the present cameras
is not functional, whereby automatic personal data processing through
monitoring cannot take place. The provisions of the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance law therefore does not apply. Against this background, the case must
terminates without further action.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by lawyer Nils Henckel. At the final processing has
also chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom participated.
Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2019-02-21 (This is an electronic signature)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. If the appeal has arrived in time sends
The Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

3 (3)

