Decision

Diarienr

2019-02-21

DI-2018-XXXX

Supervision according to the Data Protection Ordinance
2016/679 - camera surveillance
The Data Inspectorate's decision
The Data Inspectorate closes the case without further action.

Report on the supervisory matter
The Data Inspectorate has received complaints about unauthorized camera surveillance from
real estate. Due to the complaint, the Data Inspectorate has initiated an inspection
against the property owner.
The complainant has stated that the property owner has placed a camera at his entrance
and aimed the camera at a public walkway outside the property.
During the examination of the camera surveillance, it has emerged mainly
following.
The property in question is used exclusively as a private home. Open the entrance
to the house there is a camera-like object. The property owner has stated that
it is not a surveillance camera but a device used for
to scare away pests by emitting sound waves. The property owner
has provided a detailed picture of the equipment. The picture shows that it is not one
security camera.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Phone: 08-657 61 00

1 (3)

The Data Inspectorate

DI-2018-XXXX

Justification of the decision
Provisions on which the decision is based
Data Protection Ordinance 2016/6791 (Data Protection Ordinance)
and the Camera Surveillance Act (2018: 1200) regulate how and to what extent
camera surveillance is allowed. If a security camera captures one
identifiable person or any other personal data in the picture, the rules in
the Data Protection Regulation. This is stated in Article 2 (1) (i)
the Data Protection Regulation.
Of Article 2 (2) (c) of the Data Protection Ordinance and Section 5 of the Camera Surveillance Act
it appears, however, that the rules do not apply to such
personal data processing or camera surveillance performed by a physical
person as part of a purely private nature or related
with his or her household. This is called the private exemption.
Of Case C 212/13 of the European Court of Justice, where the private exemption in relation to
camera surveillance was tried, it appears that a private person as through camera
guarding place that is outside its private sphere is not covered by
the private exemption.
When a private person camera surveillance a place outside their private sphere must
therefore all legal requirements in the Data Protection Regulation and
the Camera Surveillance Act is complied with. This means, among other things, that it
personal data controller must have a legitimate interest in monitoring that
outweighs the interest in the integrity of the site. About the purpose of surveillance
can be achieved in a less intrusive way, this alternative must be chosen
instead. In addition, the person monitoring must, among other things, clearly inform about who
who guards, what purpose the guard has, and where the guard can
turn for further information and demand of their
data protection rights.2

1

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (General
Data Protection Regulation).
2 Follows from Articles 5, 6 and 12-15 of the Data Protection Regulation.

2 (3)

The Data Inspectorate

DI-2018-XXXX

The Data Inspectorate's assessment
The Data Inspectorate makes the assessment that it through the property owner
data has been shown that the alleged camera is not a camera, whereby
automatic personal data processing through surveillance can not take place.
The provisions of the Data Protection Ordinance and the Camera Surveillance Act apply
therefore not. Against this background, the case must be closed without further action.

This decision was made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by the lawyer Nils Henckel. At the final processing has
General Counsel Hans-Olof Lindblom also participated.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2019-02-21 (This is an electronic signature)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Data Inspectorate. Enter i
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Data Inspectorate no later than three weeks from
the day you received the decision. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Data Inspectorate forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for review.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Data Inspectorate if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or data that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact information can be found on the first page of the decision.

3 (3)

