Decision

Diary no

2019-02-21

DI-2018-XXXX

Supervision according to the data protection regulation
2016/679
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority closes the case without further action.

Account of the supervisory matter
A complaint regarding unauthorized camera surveillance on a property was received
The County Administrative Board in Dalarna County in April 2018. The complaint was submitted to
The Data Inspectorate in June 2018 after the Data Inspectorate in May 2018 became
national supervisory authority for all personal data processing in Sweden,
including camera surveillance. Due to the complaint has
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has started supervision of the property owner.
In the review of the camera surveillance, it has emerged in the main
following.
The property in question is used as an apartment building. The camera that has
noticed was stated to be mounted on the outside of a window on it
upper floor and be directed towards the street below. Information about it
the current camera surveillance was stated to be missing.
The property owner has stated that the camera is a dummy that has been set up by
a former tenant. No camera surveillance is said to have taken place.
The camera dummy was stated at the time of the response to be unpicked. Two
photographs to support the property owner's information show that the camera is now
disassembled.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (3)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

Justification of the decision
Provisions on which the decision is based
The Data Protection Regulation 2016/6791 and the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200)
regulates how and to what extent camera surveillance is permitted. About one
surveillance camera captures an identifiable person or someone else
personal data in the image apply to the rules in the data protection regulation. This is evident
of article 2.1 of the data protection regulation.
From article 2.2 c of the data protection regulation and section 5 of the camera surveillance act
it appears that the rules, however, do not apply to such
personal data processing or camera surveillance carried out by a physical
person as part of an activity of a purely private nature or that is related
with his or her household. This is called the private exemption.
Of the ECJ case C 212/13, where the private exception in relation to
camera surveillance was tried, it appears that a private person who through fixed
camera monitors location that is outside its private sphere is not covered
the private exemption.
When a private person is monitoring a place outside their private sphere, they must
therefore all legal requirements in the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance law is fulfilled. This means, among other things, that the
personal data controller must have a legitimate interest in monitoring which
outweighs the privacy interest at the site. About the purpose of the surveillance
can be achieved in a less privacy-infringing way, this option should be chosen
instead. In addition, the person monitoring must, among other things, clearly inform about who
who guards, what the purpose of the guarding is, and where the person being guarded can turn
themselves for further information and to assert their data protection rights. 2
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that it has been shown through photographs that the
camera that was mounted on the facade of the property has now been mounted down.

1

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
2 Follows from articles 5, 6 and articles 12-15 of the data protection regulation.

2 (3)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

There is therefore no camera surveillance in progress. The provisions of
the data protection regulation and the camera surveillance act therefore do not apply. Against
against this background, the matter shall be closed without further action.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by the lawyer Jenny Bård. At the final processing also has
chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom participated.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2019-02-21 (This is an electronic signature)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision is being appealed and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. The Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards the appeal
to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for review.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

3 (3)

