Decision

Diary no

2019-02-21

DI-2018-XXXXX

Supervision according to the data protection regulation
2016/679 - camera surveillance
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority closes the case without further action.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has received complaints regarding unauthorized
camera surveillance on property and has therefore initiated supervision of
the property owner.
The complainant has stated that the property owner has pointed three cameras at others
residential buildings and towards a public road.
During the examination of the camera surveillance in question, it has emerged in
mainly the following.
The property in question is a private residential address. Two cameras are
mounted on a facade and directed out from the property. A camera is available
indoors on the second floor and is directed out through a window, also this one
towards a public road and a residential building outside the property in question. The
later the camera was installed according to the notifier in the fall of 2018, when
supervision has already begun.
The property owner has stated that the cameras subject to review are
dummies, which therefore do not work for camera surveillance. Four more photographs
support for the property owner's information shows that the cables to the two cameras which
are mounted on the facade are cut off. A receipt showing a purchase of a
camera dummy during the fall of 2018 provides support for the task that even the latest
set up the camera constitutes a dummy.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (3)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

Justification of the decision
Provisions on which the decision is based
The Data Protection Regulation 2016/6791 and the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200)
regulates how and to what extent camera surveillance is permitted. About one
surveillance camera captures an identifiable person or someone else
personal data in the image apply to the rules in the data protection regulation. This is evident
of article 2.1 of the data protection regulation.
From article 2.2 c of the data protection regulation and section 5 of the camera surveillance act
it appears that the rules, however, do not apply to such
personal data processing and camera surveillance carried out by a physical
person as part of an activity of a purely private nature or that is related
with his or her household. This is called the private exemption.
Of the ECJ case C 212/13, where the private exception in relation to
camera surveillance was tried, it appears that a private person who through fixed
camera monitors location that is outside its private sphere is not covered
the private exemption.
When a private person is monitoring a place outside their private sphere, they must
therefore all legal requirements in the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance law is fulfilled. This means, among other things, that the
personal data controller must have a legitimate interest in monitoring which
outweighs the privacy interest at the site. About the purpose of the surveillance
can be achieved in a less privacy-infringing way, this option should be chosen
instead. In addition, the person monitoring must, among other things, clearly inform about who
who guards, what the purpose of the guarding is, and where the person being guarded can turn
themselves for further information and to assert their data protection rights. 2
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that through photographs and receipts respectively
purchase of camera dummies has been shown that the current cameras are not

1

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
2 Follows from articles 5, 6 and articles 12-15 of the data protection regulation.

2 (3)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

functioning, whereby personal data processing through surveillance cannot take place.
The provisions of the Data Protection Ordinance and the Camera Surveillance Act apply
therefore not. In light of this, the matter shall be closed without further action.

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by the lawyer Jenny Bård. In the final processing also has
chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom participated.

Charlotte Waller Dahlberg, 2019-02-21 (This is an electronic signature)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. If the appeal has arrived in time sends
The Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for review.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

3 (3)

