Decision

Diary no

2019-02-21

DI-2018-XXXX

Supervision according to the data protection regulation
2016/679 - camera surveillance
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority closes the case without further action.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has received complaints regarding unauthorized
camera surveillance on property. Due to the complaint has
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has started supervision of the property owner.
In the review of the camera surveillance, it has emerged in the main
following.
The property in question is used exclusively as a private residence.
Camera surveillance takes place through a permanently mounted camera on the inside of one
balcony window. The camera is of brand and model Denver hsc5003, a surveillance camera
which is activated by movement. The camera's motion detector (PIR) has the capacity to
activate the camera at a distance of up to 20 meters from the camera's position and
over 100 degree angle. The camera can record both sound and image at
activation.
The property owner has stated that the camera is directed diagonally downwards so that only
the own, private plot is filmed. He has come in with a still from
the camera which – in the form in which it was submitted – complies with this
statement. Furthermore, he has stated that when testing audio recording only
noise is heard. The reason for his camera monitoring is said to be that he
previously had problems with vandalism and trespassing. Then the camera

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (4)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

installed, the problems have stopped. The camera is said to be switched on only
when no one is home. The camera has only been activated on a few occasions
since it was installed. On all occasions it was due to severe storms.
The entire plot is screened off with a fence or hedge. Two signs about
camera surveillance is installed on the plot.
The complainant has stated that the camera in question is filming on his private
plot, facing kitchen window, front door and garden. Of pictures that the notifier has
arrived with shows that the camera is placed at the bottom of a window
and is directed towards the neighboring plot. The complainant later has under the supervision of the case
once stated that the camera is still aimed at his plot, but at an angle
further down.

Justification of the decision
Provisions on which the decision is based
The Data Protection Regulation 2016/6791 and the Camera Surveillance Act (2018:1200)
regulates how and to what extent camera surveillance is permitted. About one
surveillance camera captures an identifiable person or someone else
personal data in the image apply to the rules in the data protection regulation. This is evident
of article 2.1 of the data protection regulation.
From article 2.2 c of the data protection regulation and section 5 of the camera surveillance act
it appears that the rules, however, do not apply to such
personal data processing or camera surveillance carried out by a physical
person as part of an activity of a purely private nature or that is related
with his or her household. This is called the private exemption.
Of the ECJ case C 212/13, where the private exception in relation to
camera surveillance was tried, it appears that a private person who through camera
monitors location that is outside its private sphere is not covered
the private exemption.
1

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).

2 (4)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

When a private person is monitoring a place outside their private sphere, they must
therefore all legal requirements in the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance law is fulfilled. This means, among other things, that the
personal data controller must have a legitimate interest in monitoring which
outweighs the privacy interest at the site. About the purpose of the surveillance
can be achieved in a less privacy-infringing way, this option should be chosen
instead. In addition, the person monitoring must, among other things, clearly inform about who
who guards, what the purpose of the guarding is, and where the person being guarded can go
contact for further information and claiming theirs
data protection rights.2
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
With the support of the investigation in the matter, the Data Protection Authority finds it demonstrated that the
camera surveillance the property owner conducts, at the time of the decision, takes place
within his private plot. The provisions of the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance law therefore does not apply.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes at the same time that with the camera equipment
which the property owner uses, it is possible to also monitor the place outside
the plot boundary. In case the property owner's camera use would
result in personal data being processed – through either image or sound –
outside his plot boundary, the rules in the data protection regulation and
the camera surveillance law is followed. Camera surveillance of someone else's private plot
is a serious breach of privacy. According to the data protection regulation, it is not
allowed as a private person to camera monitor their neighbors against their will.

2

Follows from articles 5, 6 and 12-15 of the data protection regulation.

3 (4)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-XXXX

This decision has been made by unit manager Charlotte Waller Dahlberg after
presentation by the lawyer Frida Orring. At the final processing has
also chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom participated.

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. If the appeal has arrived in time send
The Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

4 (4)

