 

Anu Talus 
Chair of the European  Data Protection  Board 
 

by e-mail only 
Ref: OUT2023-0061 
 
 
Subject: Reply to Accredia Letter [Ref: DC2023SPM054] 
 

 

 

Dear Dr. Riva,  

 

 
 
Accredia 
Dr. Emanuele Riva 
Vice General Director 
 
 
 
Brussels, 01 August 2023 
 

Thank you for your letter of 3 May 2023, by which Accredia contacted the European Data Protection 
Board (“the Board” or the “EDPB”) in the context of the Europrivacy criteria of certification.  

The  Board appreciates your  efforts  to clarify  the  roles  and  competences of  the  different  actors 
involved in certification and accreditation procedures under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (“the GDPR”)1.  

Please find below the approach of the EDPB regarding the different questions raised by Accredia.  

 

 

 

 

                                                             
1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). 
 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

 

Question 1 – Competence, adequacy, and effect of the EDPB Opinion 

We received a  comment that “only the EU  Commission owns the legal  authority to establish 
mechanisms for the recognition of certification procedures, data protection seals and marks by 
means of implementing acts.” Could you clarify if this is the case and alternatively confirm that: 

a) 

the EDPB  is competent to adopt a  European Data Protection Seal, without requiring the 
adoption of an implementing act by the EU Commission? 

Yes, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is competent to approve the criteria for a European 
Data protection seal, without the prior adoption of an implementing act by the European commission. 

Pursuant to Articles 42 (5) and 70 (1) (o) of the General Data Protection Regulation ((EU) 2016/679 
(GDPR)), the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) has the authority to approve the criteria of a 
certification scheme intended to be used in all EEA Member States: a European Data Protection Seal.  

The authority of the EDPB to approve a European Data Protection Seal is not dependent on the prior 
adoption of a delegated or an implementing act of the European Commission (EC), pursuant to Articles 
43(8) and (9) GDPR. 

For instance, the Europrivacy certification criteria have been approved by the EDPB as European Data 
Protection Seal in its Opinion 28/20222. 

the GDPR and EDPB Guidelines allow for a scheme owner, like ECCP, to submit its certification 
criteria to Art. 42 GDPR without being itself an accredited certification body under Art. 43 
GDPR? 

b) 

Yes. 

The EDPB’s Guidelines  7/2022 define a certification scheme owner as an identifiable organisation 
which  has  set  up  certification  criteria and  the  requirements  against  which  conformity  is  to  be 
assessed3. The scheme owner may coincide with a certification body accredited pursuant to Art. 43(1) 
GDPR, but there is no requirement for the two entities to be same4. 

                                                             
2 Opinion 28/2022 on the Europrivacy criteria of certification. Available at: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/our-documents/opinion-board-art-64/opinion-282022-europrivacy-criteria-certification. 
3  Guidelines  07/2022  on  certification  as  a  tool  for  transfers  (07.02.2023)  p.  11.  Available  at: 
https://edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2022-06/edpb guidelines 202207 certificationfortransfers en 1.pdf. 
4  EDPB Document on the  procedure for the  adoption of the  EDPB opinions regarding national criteria for 
certification 
Data 
at: 
https://edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2023-
02/edpb document procedure for the adoption edpb opinions regarding national criteria for certificati
on european data protection seals en.pdf. 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

Protection 

European 

Available 

(2023) 

Seals 

and 

p. 

2. 

 

It should be noted that a scheme owner seeking approval of its certification criteria must always apply 
to a supervisory authority (SA), regardless of whether the certification scheme is intended to become 
a European Data Protection Seal or is only valid nationally5. 

For example, the Luxembourgish supervisory authority (LU SA), following its own assessment of the 
Europrivacy certification criteria drafted by the European Centre for Certification and Privacy (ECCP),  
submitted the Europrivacy certification criteria to the EDPB for approval, pursuant to 64 (2) GDPR, as 
a European Data Protection Seal. However, the approved criteria only become operational following 
accreditation of a certification body. 

c) 

the EDPB Opinion 28/2022 is not limited to provide guidance to the Luxembourgish supervisory 
authority, but it constitutes a formal decision by EDPB that is valid, effective, and applicable to 
all EU and EEA Members States? 
 

d)  The Europrivacy criteria have been formally approved to serve as European Data Protection 

Seal that can be used in all EU and EEA Member States. 

Please note that the answer replies to both points c) and d). 

Yes, assuming that in relation to your question 1(d) you mean that the Europrivacy criteria have been 
formally approved to serve as criteria for a European Data Protection Seal that can be used in all EU 
and EEA Member States. It is important to note that the approved criteria are not identical to the data 
protection seal  itself, since  the criteria only  become operational following  the accreditation of a 
certification body. 

According to Art. 42(5) GDPR, which refers to Art. 63 GDPR, the approval of a certification mechanism 
by the EDPB must follow the consistency procedure in Art. 64 GDPR. 

As explained in the answer to question  1.b, when the competent SA receives an application for a 
certification  mechanism  intended  to  become  a  European  Data Protection  Seal, it  will,  after its 
assessment, refer the matter to the EDPB for an opinion, pursuant to Art. 64(2) GDPR.  

Then, pursuant to Art. 64(3) GDPR, the EDPB will adopt an opinion that either approves or rejects that 
the  certification criteria fulfil  the  requirements  of  the  GDPR, interpreted  in  line  with  the EDPB 
Guidelines 1/2018 on certification6. 

                                                             
5  EDPB Document on the  procedure for the  adoption of the  EDPB opinions regarding national criteria for 
certification and European Data Protection Seals (2023) p. 2. 
6 Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 
of the Regulation (Version 3.0), p. 36, available at: 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb guidelines 201801 v3.0 certificationcriteria anne
x2 en.pdf;  
Opinion 28/2022 on the Europrivacy criteria of certification regarding their approval by the Board as European 
Data Protection Seal pursuant to Article 42.5 (GDPR) (10.10.2022), pp. 3, and 25-27. EDPB Document on the 
procedure for the adoption of the EDPB opinions regarding national criteria for certification and European 
Data Protection Seals (2023) p. 34 and Annex A. 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

Therefore, following the adoption of EDPB’s opinion 28/2022, the Europrivacy certification criteria can 
be  applied  in  all  EEA  Member  States, without  any  additional  criteria, by  certification  bodies  – 
accredited in compliance with Art. 43 GDPR by the respective competent NAB or SA  – to conduct 
certification under these criteria 7. 

Question 2 – Competent authority for delivering national accreditation under art. 43 GDPR 

Could you confirm that the accreditation/agreement procedures under Art. 43 GDPR are performed 
in principle by the competent authority of the country where the certification body is located? 

Yes. 

Accreditation for  a  European  Data Protection  Seal  shall  occur  in  the  Member State  where the 
certification body intending to operate the scheme has its’ headquarters. Where other establishments 
or offices manage and perform certifications autonomously, each of these establishments or offices 
will require separate accreditation in the Member State where they are based8. 

In other words, if a certification body wants to issue certificates in Member State, in line with Art. 43 
(1) GDPR, the certification body has to become accredited in accordance with the requirements for 
accreditation adopted by the SA of that Member State, pursuant to Art. 43 (3) GDPR. 

According to art. 43(1), the accreditation process of certification bodies may be conducted either by 
the SA or the national accreditation body (NAB) or both.  

Question 3 – Ability of EA to support Art. 43 GDPR Accreditation procedures 

Can EA conduct a further and additional evaluation (fulfilling the EA-1/22 A 2020 requirements), to 
assess whether  the  Europrivacy  scheme is  an  accreditable scheme  under ISO/IEC  17065,  in 
compliance with GDPR? 

The assessment conducted by the SAs and the EDPB for the approval of the certification criteria for a 
European  Data Protection  Seal  focuses  on  whether  the  criteria are  compliant  with  the  GDPR, 
interpreted in line with Guidelines 1/2018. The scope of the EDPB Opinion 28/2022 does not cover 
the accreditability of the Europrivacy certification scheme under EN-ISO/IEC 17065. 

It should be noted that the EDPB, in its internal procedure for handling applications for approving 
certification  criteria, recommends  SAs,  that  do  not  accredit certification  bodies  themselves,  to 
collaborate  with  their  NAB 9. Whilst  this  is  not  a  requirement  that stems  from  the  GDPR, it  is 
encouraged by the EDPB to facilitate the accreditability of certification mechanisms. 

As to the evaluation of the accreditability by the EA, the EDPB considers that it is outside its mandate 
to determine whether such an evaluation may take place or not. Nevertheless, the EDPB welcomes all 
                                                             
7 Guidelines 1/2018, p. 43. 
8 Guidelines 1/2018, p. 44. 
9  EDPB Document on the  procedure for the  adoption of the  EDPB opinions regarding national criteria for 
certification and European Data Protection Seals (2023) p. 12. 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

initiatives  aiming  at harmonizing  the  approach  adopted  by  NABs  so  as  to  ensure  a  consistent 
evaluation of the accreditability of European Data Protection Seals. 

In this regard, the EDPB invites the EA to consider how the NAB that takes the lead for the assessment 
of the accreditability of a European Data Protection Seal could liaise with national SAs that perform 
accreditation of certification bodies, in accordance with Art. 43(1) (a) GDPR. The EDPB would also be 
open to exchange views and best practices with the EA, concerning the accreditability of certification 
mechanisms pursuant to the GDPR. 

Question 4 – European Cooperation in Accreditation Procedures 

a)  Can a National Accreditation Body, recognized by Reg. 765, accredit for a GDPR European 
scheme a  certification Bodies not established in its  country? For example, could Accredia 
accredit a certification body established in another country for the Europrivacy scheme, if the 
National Accreditation Body of the other country agrees with such approach? 
 
If yes, should Accredia apply for this accreditation the national criteria established by Italian 
DPA, or the additional criteria established by the other country’s Supervisory Authority? 

b) 

Please note that the answer replies to both points a) and b). 

According to Art. 6 (3) of Reg. 765/2008: “national accreditation bodies shall be permitted to operate 
across national borders, within the territory of another Member State, either at the request of a 
conformity assessment body in the circumstances set out in Art. 7(1), or, if they are asked to do so by 
a  national  accreditation  body  in  accordance  with  Art.  7(3),  in  cooperation  with  the  national 
accreditation body of that Member State.” 

The EDPB considers that the legal situation of cross-border accreditation of certification bodies within 
the scope of the GDPR is inconclusive10 and would invite the EA to discuss the topic further. In this 
matter, the  EDPB reiterates that the  accreditation of  a  certification body  for  a  European  Data 
Protection Seal shall be granted in the Member State where the certification body that is intending to 
operate the certification scheme has its’ headquarters, or in the Member State where the certification 
body  has other establishments or offices managing or performing certification autonomously. The 
competence over a certifying body is thus not dependent on where the accrediting NAB is located, 
which entails that the additional accreditation requirements that apply for the accreditation of the 
certification body are those approved by the certification body’s competent SA. 

 

                                                             
10 The EDPB Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data 
Protection Regulation (2016/679) state that the fact that Art. 43 (1) GDPR allows accreditation by SAs is a 
derogation from the general principle that accreditation is to be conducted exclusively by NABs, means that 
the GDPR is lex specialis in relation to Art. 2(11) of Regulation. (EC) 765/2008. See para. 33 of the Guidelines 
4/2018 (Version 3.0). Available at: 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb guidelines 201804 v3.0 accreditationcertification
bodies annex1 en.pdf. 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

Question 5 – Possibility to Use Europrivacy for Voluntary Certifications 

Would it be possible to use the Europrivacy criteria on a voluntary basis, for assessing compliance 
of data processing activities and delivering certification outside of the scope of Art. 42 and 43 GDPR 
[in non-EEA jurisdictions]?  

No, the Europrivacy criteria as approved in Opinion  28/2022, the EuroPrivacy name, trade mark or 
brand and the approved EuroPrivacy Seal or any names or seals likely to be confused with it cannot 
be used for certification outside the scope  of Art. 42 and 43 GDPR (see below), but this does not 
preclude the use of the Europrivacy criteria for self-assessment without any attestation of conformity.  

First, it should be noted that GDPR certification pursuant to Articles 42 and 43 is a voluntary tool. Data 
controllers and processors are not required to hold a certification but they may use it as an element 
to demonstrate compliance with their obligations under the GDPR, as stipulated in Articles 24(3), 
25(3), 28(5) and 32(3) GDPR. To that end, only certification criteria approved by a SA or the EDPB, may 
be relied upon to demonstrate compliance with the GDPR. 

Accordingly, the use of certification criteria outside of the scope of Articles 42 and 43 GDPR would not 
have any of the legal effects anticipated by the GDPR. Whilst this does not preclude a controller or 
processor from using approved certification criteria as a tool for self-assessment of compliance with 
the GDPR, the data controller or processor could not in such a case refer to a certification, seal or mark 
as a certification pursuant to Articles 42 and 43 GDPR. 

As to the Europrivacy certification criteria, it should be noted that the scope, as approved in Opinion 
28/2022, is limited to controllers and processors established in the EU and the EEA. In this regard, the 
criteria cover –  inter alia  – obligations  to assess  compatibility with EEA Member State legislation 
complementary  to  the GDPR (cf.  criteria G1.1.3 –  National  Regulation  Compliance)  and  include 
requirements to notify competent SAs in certain situations, for example in case of a data breach (cf. 
criteria G7 – Management of data breaches). Hence, controllers or processors that are established 
outside  the EU/EEA and outside the scope of  the GDPR, are not in a position  to comply  with the 
entirety of  the Europrivacy criteria and  can therefore not  obtain the Europrivacy  European Data 
Protection Seal. 

Finally, EDPB Guidelines 4/2018 clarify that data protection certificates, seals and marks “shall only be 
used”  in compliance  with Articles 42 and 43 GDPR and Guidelines  1/201811. The purpose  of  this 
requirement is to ensure transparency and to enable other stakeholders and especially data subjects 
to quickly assess the level of data protection of relevant products and services provided by a certified 
controller or processor12. By contrast, the use of certification under the Europrivacy label outside the 
scope of  the GDPR and the scope of  the Europrivacy criteria approved in Opinion 28/2022, could 
create a situation of unfair competition, as entities certified under the label could be seen as having 
obtained a certification that demonstrates compliance with the GDPR. In the view of the EDPB, this 
                                                             
11 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation (2016/679) (Version 3.0) Annex 1, section 4.1.3. 
12 Recital 100 GDPR. 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

could jeopardise the validity of and trust in the system of accreditation and certification under the 
GDPR. 

However, reusing some of the Europrivacy criteria within a certification mechanism outside the scope 
of application of GDPR would be possible, if such use is without prejudice to any other applicable law 
(including intellectual property rights). Additionally it shall be clearly stated that the use of the criteria 
results in a certification which is different from the EuroPrivacy name, trade mark or brand and the 
approved EuroPrivacy Seal or any names or seals likely to be confused with it. Lastly, it shall be clearly 
underlined that it is not a GDPR certification. 
 
 
Yours sincerely 

 

 
Anu Talus 
 

 

 

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

