THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

April 8, 2019

 

 

  Control measures for the EU GDPR are in place

 

 
When presenting its activity report in January 2019, the State
commissioned for data protection and freedom of information (LfDI), Dr. Stefan Brink,
already announced: "2019 will be the year of controls". Last year, at
when the European General Data Protection Regulation EU-DSGVO came into effect
the focus of the activity of the data protection officers clearly on the consultation: "We
have in over 200 events more than 20,000 citizens as well
Employees of companies and authorities trained, in
We advised and supported sending individual cases,” explains LfDI Brink. "Now
it is our job to check the success of our work.” Effective data
Protection is not only required by the EU GDPR, it is also required by all those companies
and authorities, who have been working together for a long time and with great commitment
strive for data protection. “Those who choose to leave gaps when it comes to data protection can get away with it
not gain any advantage over the data protection compliant competition - that is
a requirement of fairness!” emphasizes Brink.
 
The announcement of controls did not go unnoticed, since then the country
thecommissioned numerous inquiries from companies, authorities and journalists -
also according to the Freedom of Information Act - which concrete areas in the
focus of the controls. In order to meet this need for information,
the LfDI now specifies which areas are primarily controlled
must.
 
The total of 250 control measures relate to the areas of public security,
transportation, municipal services, and health and education. checked
which in detail include urban and private video surveillance, data
storage by the police, data generated in the car, council information systems
me, hospitals, medical practices and pharmacies, insurance companies and museums. white
Furthermore, a larger number of websites from online shops will be transferred to the data
disclosure to third parties (so-called tracking).
 
 

 

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

Brink on this: “The controls can be announced or not
announcement done. In numerous cases we already have complaints
the areas examined, but we also check some of them without
special occasion by way of random sampling."
 
The following note is also important to LfDI Brink: "Checks are not synonymous
tend to result in sanctions or even fines. Even with our extensive
Advice and pointers to possible improvements remain the same
means of choice. In the future, penalties will only be imposed for serious violations and
pronounced when clear violations of the law are not eliminated."
so important: "Volunteer clubs and small companies without major data processing
are not the focus of our control action. Also in this respect
let's use a sense of proportion!” concludes Brink.
 
LfDI Brink will report on the results of the control measures in December.
  
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.
 
Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at
www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

 

