

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data of potential clients of the company, with a special focus on verifying their identity and obtaining copies of identity cards when setting up a bank account (UOOU-02511/19)
Flask


The inspection was initiated on the basis of the complainant's complaint, according to which the company made the establishment of a current account conditional on the acquisition of a copy of the identity card. After the start of the inspection, the Office gradually received four more similar complaints against the bank. The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations in the processing of personal data established by the General Regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection with the use of copies of personal documents within the framework of the establishment bank accounts, granting consent in accordance with Article 4 point 11 and Article 7 of the General Regulation and evaluating the legal title for the processing of personal data in accordance with Article 6 of the General Regulation, both in the scope of complaints filed and in the scope of the general procedure for setting up a bank account in relation to the handling of personal data. In the control protocol, the Office stated, among other things, that the processing on the basis of Article 6 paragraph 1 letter a) of the General Regulation, when it concerns the processing of personal data based on the consent of the data subject for the purpose of obtaining a copy of the identity card, the company violated the obligation in Article 7 point 4 of the General Regulation, i.e. the nature of the consent granted did not correspond to the legal conditions. As a result of the absence of properly granted consent, Article 6 point 1 of the general regulation was also violated. The Office also found a violation of Article 5 paragraph 1 letter e) of the general regulation, since the company kept personal data for a longer period than is necessary for the purposes for which they were processed, and Article 5, paragraph 1 letter c) of the General Regulation, because redundant personal data were processed in relation to the processing purposes. Objections were filed against the inspection protocol, which were partially upheld. Administrative proceedings were initiated against the company.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Financial services and insurance industry > Inspection of the processing of personal data of potential clients of the company, se with a special focus on verifying their identity and making copies of identity cards when setting up a bank account (UOOU-02511/19)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



