1/14

 Procedure No.: PS/00078/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 10, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one),
responsible for the website ***URL.1 for alleged violation of the regulations of
Data Protection. The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

“[…] when I signed up for your Newsletter I was not informed at any time of the
purpose of these data, neither the person responsible for processing the information, nor the
file, nothing. Days later I bought an item from this store and wanted to return it
why the wrong item served me and when I looked for the withdrawal form
I couldn't find it because it doesn't have one. At the time of registering, there is no information
the purpose of the data entered, the person responsible for processing my data, the
time you will have my data, etc.”

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being notified on
03/12/2019/2019.

No response has been received from the respondent.

THIRD:
 Accessed on March 23, 2020 the website
https://goncabass.es, it is verified that the page is active and the
diligence in order to incorporate into the file capture of the main page
where the section on subscription to the newsletter appears, as well as paths
impressions of the privacy policy page and the creation page
bill.

FOURTH: On March 23, 2020, the application of the AEPD is consulted and verified
that the only sanctioning procedure in which the
mercantile B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, is the present procedure.

FIFTH: On March 30, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

SIXTH: Once the aforementioned initiation agreement was notified on June 4, 2020, the defendant
has not filed any arguments.

SEVENTH: On September 17, 2020, the website ***URL.1 is accessed
in order to check the situation of the mentioned page in relation to the
diligence carried out on March 23, 2020, making impressions of the policy
privacy and account creation page, as well as a screenshot of what
concerning the newsletter that appears on the home page. Diligence is carried out
inclusion in the file of these verifications.

EIGHTH: On September 18, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the defendant be imposed a sanction of warning, for a
infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the same regulation.

The respondent has not submitted arguments to this proposal.

NINTH: On December 3, 2020, the website is accessed
https://goncabass.es in order to check the status of the aforementioned page
in relation to the diligence carried out on September 18, 2020, carrying out
impressions of the privacy policy and screenshot of the home page. is done
diligence of incorporation to the record of these verifications.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The checks related to aspects of the privacy policy of the
website https://goncabass.es held on March 23, 2020, they highlighted
manifest the following:

● The content of the privacy policy was not adapted to the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD, continuing to refer to Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
Personal data protection. Its content was as follows:

"Privacy Policy
Company name: B.B.B.
Trade Name: ***URL.1
Registered Office: Street ***ADDRESS.1, Madrid
CIF / NIF: ***NIF.1
Phone: ***PHONE.1
e-Mail: ***EMAIL.1

In accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, on Data Protection
of Personal Character (LOPD) and its development regulations, the person in charge of the site
website, in compliance with the provisions of art. 5 and 6 of the LOPD, informs all
users of the website who provide or are going to provide their personal data, that these
will be incorporated into an automated file that is duly registered
in the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

Users, by checking the box, expressly and expressly accept
free and unequivocal that your personal data be processed by the provider to
perform the following purposes:

1. Sending commercial advertising communications by e-mail, fax, SMS, MMS,
social communities or any other electronic or physical means, present or future,
that enables commercial communications. Said communications
commercial will be related to products or services offered by the provider,
as well as by the collaborators or partners with whom he had
reached some commercial promotion agreement among its clients. In this case,
third parties will never have access to personal data. In any case the
commercial communications will be made by the provider and will be
products and services related to the provider's sector.

2. Carry out statistical studies.

3. Process orders, requests or any type of request that is made by the
user through any of the contact forms that are made available
of the user on the company's website.

4. Submit the website newsletter.

The provider expressly informs and guarantees users that their data
personal information will not be transferred in any case to third companies, and that whenever
were to carry out some type of transfer of personal data, in advance,
would request the express, informed, and unequivocal consent of the
Headlines.

All the data requested through the website are mandatory, since they are
necessary for the provision of an optimal service to the user. If not
all data is provided, the provider does not guarantee that the information and
services provided are completely adjusted to your needs.

The provider guarantees in any case to the user the exercise of the rights of access,
rectification, cancellation, information and opposition, in the terms provided in the
current legislation. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the Organic Law
15/1999, on the Protection of Personal Data (LOPD) may exercise its
rights by sending an express request, together with a copy of your DNI, through
the following media:

• E-Mail: ***EMAIL.1

In the same way, the user may unsubscribe from any of the services of
subscription provided by clicking on the unsubscribe section of all emails
emails sent by the provider.

In the same way, the provider has adopted all the technical and
organization necessary to guarantee the security and integrity of the data of
personal character that it treats, as well as to avoid its loss, alteration and/or access by
part of unauthorized third parties.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

● The privacy policy information was offered in an accessible hyperlink
both from the main page and at the time of creation of the account
Username.

● The subscription to the newsletter that could be done from the main page does not
offered the possibility of accepting the privacy policy prior to the
introduction of the email data while this possibility was collected
for the optional subscription to the newsletter from the creation page of the
user account.

SECOND: The checks carried out on September 17,
2020 showed the following:

● It has been decided to display the basic and additional information on the same page
accessible from a hyperlink displayed both from the main page and in the
time of creation of the user account.

● Updating of the privacy policy. On that date the content of the same is
the next:

“PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTION POLICY

In compliance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and the
Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to
regarding the processing of personal data, which repeals the directive
95/46/CE (hereinafter, RGPD), of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the
information society and electronic commerce (hereinafter, LSSI-CE) and the
Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
digital, B.B.B. guarantees the protection and confidentiality of personal data,
any type provided by our customers, in accordance with the provisions of
the General Regulation for the Protection of Personal Data.

The Data Protection Policy of B.B.B. rest on the principle of
proactive responsibility, according to which the Data Controller is
responsible for compliance with the regulatory and jurisprudential framework, being able to
prove it to the corresponding control authorities.

The data provided will be treated in the terms established in the RGPD, in this
sense B.B.B. has adopted the levels of protection that are legally required, and has
installed all the technical measures at its disposal to prevent loss, misuse,
alteration, unauthorized access by third parties, set out below. Nevertheless,
The user must be aware that security measures on the Internet are not
impregnable.

Responsible for the treatment: Who are we?

Denomination: B.B.B. CIF: ***NIF.1

Address: C/ ***ADDRESS.1, Madrid
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

Phone: ***PHONE.1

Email: ***EMAIL.1

Purpose of the treatment: What will we use your data for?

All data provided by our customers and/or visitors to the B.B.B. or to
your staff, will be included in the record of data processing activities of
personal character, created and maintained under the responsibility of B.B.B.,
essential to provide the services requested by users, or to resolve
doubts or questions raised by our visitors. Our policy is not
create profiles on the users of our services.

Legitimacy of the treatment: Why do we need your data?

a) Contractual relationship: It is the one that applies when you buy one of our products or
Hire one of our services.

b) Legitimate interest: To attend to queries and claims that you raise and
to manage the collection of amounts owed.

c) Your consent: If you are a user of our website, by marking the
box that appears on the contact form, you authorize us to send you the
communications necessary to respond to the query or request for information
raised.

Recipients: With whom do we share your data?

We do not transfer your personal data to anyone, except for those entities
public or private to which we are obliged to provide your personal data
for the purpose of complying with any law. For example, the Tax Law
required to provide the Tax Agency with certain information on transactions
finances above a certain amount.

In the event that, apart from the aforementioned assumptions, we need to give
know your personal information to other entities, we will previously request your
permission through clear options that will allow you to decide in this regard.

Communication: Where could we send your data?

We will not make international transfers of your personal data for any
of the stated purposes.

Conservation: How long will we keep your data?

We will only keep your personal data for as long as necessary
to achieve the purposes for which they were collected. When determining the
appropriate period of conservation, we examine the risks that the
treatment, as well as our contractual, legal and regulatory obligations, the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

internal data retention policies and our legitimate business interests
described in this Privacy Notice and Cookies Policy.

In this sense, B.B.B. will keep the personal data once your
relationship with you, duly blocked, during the limitation period of the
actions that may arise from the relationship maintained with the interested party.

Once blocked, your data will be inaccessible to B.B.B., and will not be
treaties except for making them available to public administrations, judges
and Courts, for the attention of the possible responsibilities arising from the
treatments, as well as for the exercise and defense of claims before the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Security: How are we going to protect your data?

We use all reasonable efforts to maintain the confidentiality of the
personal information processed in our systems. We maintain strict standards
security to protect the personal data that we process against
accidental loss and unauthorized access, treatment or disclosure, given
account of the state of technology, the nature and the risks to which they are exposed
the data. However, we cannot be held responsible for your use of the
data (including username and password) that you use on our website. Our staff
follows strict privacy regulations and in the event that we contract with third parties to
provide support services, we require them to abide by the same standards and
allow them to be audited to verify their compliance.

Your rights: What rights can you exercise as an interested party?

We inform you that you can exercise the following rights:

a) Right of access to your personal data, to know which ones are being
of treatment and the treatment operations carried out with them;

b) Right to rectify any inaccurate personal data;

c) Right to delete your personal data, when this is possible (for
example, by legal imperative);

d) Right to limit the processing of your personal data when the accuracy,
the legality or necessity of data processing is doubtful, in which case,
We may keep them for the exercise or defense of claims.

e) Right to oppose the processing of your personal data, when the legal basis
that enables us to treat the indicated ones is our legitimate interest.
BBB will stop processing your data unless it has a legitimate interest or it is necessary
for the defense of claims.

f) Right to the portability of your data, when the legal basis that enables us to
their treatment is the existence of a contractual relationship or their consent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

g) Right to revoke the consent given to B.B.B.

To exercise your rights, you can do so free of charge and at any
time, by contacting us at C/ ***DIRIMIENTO.1, Madrid,
attaching a copy of your ID.

Protection of rights: Where can you make a claim?

In case you understand that your rights have been disregarded by our
entity, you can file a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, through any of the following means:

.- Electronic office: https://www.aepd.es

.- Postal mail: Spanish Data Protection Agency, C/ Jorge Juan, 6, 28001,
Madrid .- Telephone: ***TELEPHONE.2 and ***TELEPHONE.3

Filing a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency does not entail
no cost and the assistance of a lawyer or solicitor is not necessary.

Updates: What changes may there be in this Privacy Policy?

BBB reserves the right to modify this policy to adapt it to
legislative or jurisprudential developments that may affect compliance with the
same.”

THIRD: The checks carried out on December 3, 2020, show
manifest the following aspects:

● The content of the privacy policy is identical to that verified on September 17
of 2020.

● Access to the information in the privacy policy is guaranteed at the time
subscription of the newsletter or newsletter from the main page
linking said subscription with its acceptance.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of article 13
of the RGPD, regarding the information that must be provided when the data is
obtained from the interested party, which establishes that:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

The violation of this article is typified as an infringement in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
which he considers as such:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

[…] b) the rights of the interested parties under articles 12 to 22; […].”

For the purposes of the limitation period of the infraction, article 74 of the LOPDGDD
establishes:

“They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

[…] a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right
of information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the articles
13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. […]”

III

In accordance with the evidence provided by the proven facts, it is
considers that the respondent maintained the privacy policy of the website
https://goncabass.es —online store specializing in products related to
fisheries—outdated with respect to the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, at least
at least until March 23, 2020 and taking into account that the entry into force
of the aforementioned standard took place on May 25, 2018. In this way, the information
that customers received and accepted at the time of creating an account and facilitating their
personal data was not adapted to the provisions of the RGPD. Also, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

process of subscribing to the newsletter did not provide the aforementioned information in the
time of entering the data of the email.

Currently, although the respondent has updated the Privacy Policy, it is
observe the following breaches:

● With regard to the information that article 11.2 of the LOPDGDD configures
as basic, it is pointed out that the obligation to inform about the purposes of the
treatment, in accordance with the provisions of article 13.1.c) of the RGPD. Nope
However, in the content of the privacy policy that is collected in the fact
proven second, there is no express mention of the reference to the purpose of
processing consisting of sending advertising or commercial communications
related to the activity of the person in charge, even when the possibility of
subscribe to a newsletter or newsletter and therefore it is plausible that
Certain personal data is used for this purpose. by nature itself
of this activity, cannot be considered subsumed in "the services requested by
users, or to resolve doubts or questions raised by our
visitors”.

● Regarding the rest of the information that must be provided in accordance with article
13, the following is revealed:

1. By virtue of article 13.1.c) of the RGPD, it is necessary to inform of the legal bases
that legitimize the treatment based on the defined purposes. However, in the
present case, possibly motivated by the fact that the shipment has not been included
of communications as one of the purposes of the processing of personal data
that can be carried out, as indicated above, the person in charge does not
informs about its legitimating base.

2. Article 13.1.e) establishes the obligation to at least describe the categories of
recipients to whom the data will be transferred, without a generic mention. In
In this case, it is stated that the personal data will not be transferred, but
Below is generically mentioned the exception of public entities or
to which you are bound by law, and an example of a
public administration. Therefore, once the possibility of
a transfer to public and private entities, a correct exercise of the duty of
information makes it necessary to describe, at least, the categories of
recipients (if it is not possible to individualize them) of public entities and
private with respect to which the person in charge considers that there may be a
Data transfer obligation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

3. Regarding the term of conservation of the personal data obtained from the
interested, article 13.2.a) of the RGPD provides that you will be informed about the
duration of said period, or if this is not possible, of the criteria taken into account
for its determination. In the current privacy policy, a reference is made
generic to that the term of conservation will be the necessary one to comply with the
purposes, said period being determined by criteria of fulfillment of obligations
legal, internal policy and legitimate interests, without describing them. I know
makes a generic reference to the fact that the data will be kept once the
relationship between client and person in charge, for the determined time of prescription of the
Actions. Taking into account that the data obtained from the interested party by the
responsible respond to various purposes, a fair and transparent treatment requires
that the reference to the term of conservation (or at least the criteria that are going to be taken
taken into account to determine it) are individualized for each of the aforementioned
purposes.

4. Regarding the information related to the exercise of rights, it is
accredited that the person in charge refers to it in its privacy policy, for
what can be considered fulfilled the duty of information with basic character. Nope
However, the following aspects are noted:

4.1. Article 17 of the RGPD establishes —in its section 1— the cases in which
The interested party may request the right to delete the personal data that
affect, as well as —in section 3— the situations in which this right of
deletion will not apply. The person in charge has chosen to include the consideration
generic statement that this right may be exercised when possible and includes as
example the legal imperative. In this regard, it should be noted that even when the
fulfillment of a legal obligation in the Law of the Union or of a state
member is one of the cases included in article 17.1, a correct exercise of the
The right to information implies that, if an example is provided, those
assumptions that, due to the very nature of the activity carried out by the
responsible, have a high probability of occurring over time; namely, the future
unnecessary for the purposes for which it was collected or withdrawal of consent
mentioned in article 17.1.b).

4.2. Article 21.1 regulates the right to oppose the processing of data whose basis
legitimizing is the public interest or the legitimate interest and indicates as assumptions in the
that the person in charge would not stop carrying out said treatment those in which "it is
proves [by the person in charge] compelling legitimate reasons for the treatment that
prevail over the interests, rights and freedoms of the interested party, or for the
formulation, exercise or defense of claims. Therefore, it is not
correct to declare that in the exercise of the right of opposition in the event that the
legitimizing basis of the treatment is the legitimate interest, said treatment would be
limited by the very existence of a legitimate interest of the controller. as pointed out
the article, the person in charge must prove that his interest prevails over the interests,
rights and freedoms of the interested party who has exercised the right of opposition.

In another order of things, as regards the material exercise of the rights that
assist the interested party, and even when this end is not part of the content of the
article 13 of the RGPD whose infringement is imputed in this sanctioning procedure,
warns that the only means facilitated for the exercise of those seems to be by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

postal mail, without taking into consideration the provisions of Recital 59 RGPD
which establishes that «Formulas must be arbitrated to facilitate the interested party the exercise
of their rights under this Regulation, including the mechanisms for
request and, where appropriate, obtain free of charge, in particular, access to data
personal information and its rectification or deletion, as well as the exercise of the right of
opposition. The controller must also provide means for
applications are submitted by electronic means, in particular when the data
data are processed by electronic means […]”. In this case, a suitable
proportionality would imply that, given that it is possible to obtain data
by electronic means, the exercise of rights can be exercised
also in the same way.

5. Finally, it is pointed out that, taking into account that one of the legitimizing bases is
that relating to the possible contractual obligations that may arise between the
responsible and the potential client, it should be noted whether or not it is mandatory to provide the
personal data, as well as the consequence of not doing so, all under the
article 13.2.e) of the RGPD.

IV

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5 of the RGPD, art. 58.2 b) provides the
possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what is indicated in the
Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, when deciding the sanction to be imposed, they have taken into account
count the following items,

 That it is a minor infraction.

 That the controller is a natural person.

 That there is no recidivism due to the lack of evidence of the commission of previous infractions.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the sanction that should be imposed is
warning, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 b) of the RGPD, in
in relation to what is stated in Considering 148, cited above.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD,
according to which each control authority may "order the person in charge or in charge
of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period [...]”, the person in charge must prove, within a period of one month, that
has proceeded to update the privacy policy.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of WARNING.

Likewise, within ONE MONTH from the notification of this act, you must
prove the following:

 Having updated the privacy policy of the website https://goncabass.es,
so that its content conforms to the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. and inform A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

938-131120

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

