In the matter of the General Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act 2018
DPC Case Reference: 07/SIU/2018

In the matter of Sligo County Council

Decision of the Data Protection Commission made pursuant to sections 111 and 124 of the Data
Protection Act 2018

Further to an own-volition inquiry commenced pursuant to sections 110 and 123 of the Data
Protection Act 2018

DECISION

Decision-Makers for the Data Protection Commission:
Dr Des Hogan, Commissioner for Data Protection and

Mr Dale Sunderland, Commissioner for Data Protection
13 November 2024

An Coimisién um
Chosaint Sonrai
Data Protection
Commission

Data Protection Commission
21 Fitzwilliam Square South
Dublin 2, Ireland

Contents

> SEEPS RIT oc cies stass ans va ceectstecasacccectcasccevbativiacwoanvanvtoutsdpkransdscdanavds Aaabeaeadasdsen cdasbsae cheek so0ces vbsenaeedibe stashed 4
PP ec ye tcl): saat snanen ana nnan nia uOe HrSAsan en SuB Suu Bs seRN Ser Aust thes SmASGSSue Ses shnen sues SOnaBOat NEEOREOACSSUSRO ITE >OC=Sra 4
SF FGIIUS ETSITS WEIS DOR G RIOT srcue Sesencci mgs ersevnneaestevenyt van steapndvado greene ns eds codeobesiuatho seat asbye tus seedaemnedestreiet 8
4. Legal regime pertaining to the inquiry and the Decision ............ccccccceesssesscesseeeeesesseneeeeeseeeseeeeteeeeenees 9

3) Processing that falls under the GDPR.....2::i:ci:ccsscod:ascasccesssarsaoveestosdesteasunssasacadsaaneascseezaceneeaysoasecs 12

By ~ PRGGeSSing That Fans Under the CED a iatinss cassassscenidevccecovssssivecspues book ishss bee asdoadpahadie sos bis eabondsodan say 12
BS CREE OTR i ores os cic cae og ntcn 'cu'sgc'oys os to tog as pos'cpugeemblanwios ocistes cana nhvapacnbhesnaoyovngs syneneg ucbengeaabanseaasoasre viene 14
Be etait LIE ces acts ev ver caw op eae eval apollo De gel phageaiila nb olan vthinates Bi oghtes chs url supe darscb sbGTa2E RIEUES W7ORINEE DREN OEE bEEIEA 14
7); PAPAL YSHS BIG PRIUS sos cossa gees senaysa2ascegpeyaspestnensnosquaastnpa disc ducepausvinstemisonacinnessd%ian cess @iine Geadhdsadiibinss kabbiin’s 14

a) Legal bases for the surveillance technologies employed for the purposes of preventing,
IVEStigSting, DETECTING OF PFOSECUTINE CHING ece ne snistacavetogrtacceadaasn sestecieaei spi peadionsaeqecagGracdevseqtcapeetvsesmeczate. 15

b) Legal bases for the surveillance technologies employed for purposes other than for preventing,

investigating, detecting OF PrOSECULING CIIMMC...........cccpeeeeeeeeeseneseceereesttieeseeneeaseeeacceuaaageneenanecaneneneenrenes 24
c) Appropriate signage and general transparency ............0.-ccccscccsesnseecsecceceesenaseeenreeseneneeeenuaueenennaneenense 25
A) JAE CON OUST BRT ROTIOLIE iss sicsicss snceeess ioedtctsdesiecdndee6s fads cdesesspssyanccnayespenpouy saseenderevseeveysevrtiedpiveesaacee 30
e) Security Measures for CCTV at Sligo Harbour and CranMore..........csccsccrsecseeerseseeseeseerrsneseessenseeeaees 31
f) Security Measures for Environment Department CCTV Cameras .........:ccscecsscersensseesterntensseeerennensenes 35
BF) AC CRATH EOS IRY: <n cs sscenceseep esse yigs5is550p tbe satenbvsas themes chav tons dap onabsabes sidueieihiis edi odjveteepissocbe ndkpeisoedssaria oevesieerk 40
h) Data minimisation and data protection by design and default ................ccccecceceeeessenseeeneeeseenaeneseeees 43
U} COTA REM AE IS apie scccgceca ciazy cas occacasses onsite Cac ans ego conto nosh cee Gee sta oe tocea’oa sengsonnenvoprangangyaqenypansaa cing tizene 44
8. Decisints Gti COLective POWELS. i. ic.00cc0csecessessparecnsepedndb stecsests senna vbaancha sentesas seins avadesdsadssanasansoaiseaisanase 45
9. Orders to Bring Processing into Compliance and Temporary Ban on Processing.................:.008 49
10. Decision regarding the imposition of an Administrative FIne...............c-csescesseeceeeeneereceeneeeseeees 58
a) Whether to impose an administrative Fine ........-.::cercerrrsecesrrseeeeecetesereeneesensesssuesenaateneeeneteeetteneees 59

i) Article 83(2)(a) GDPR: the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement taking into account the
nature scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as the number of data subjects

affected and the level of damage suffered Dy thei...........ccccescceereeenssceeesseeseesseeeneseneeeeteneertneeeseeneny 59
Taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as the
number of data subjects affected and the level of damage suffered by the ........-1csseeeeererereneeenes 60
The nature of thie innfttligerniennts .5i5iiicse<iseqsitezss mn vous sa edges anstgeasenvenevortoonsenensopaaeapoyedee desbhoge ppaccaleageaniens 62
The gravity Of the infrinGeMeRN .......iscccecieserisoisssnrsssasonsackssssnaensasaindensactssasseanscs ssi obseisen akeceeporsesvoneens 64
i; Assessment Of Article BI(2) (0) icsssiscisssinasssssesaweenta vsndeanssavesssacnconsecdsespessens yodpecved vervanvieracvemisenitesersners 65
ii. Article 83(2)(b) GDPR: the intentional or negligent character of the infringement; ...................- 65

iii. Article 83(2)(c) GDPR: any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate the damage
Suffered by Gata SUBJECTS: .......5...0c2sc0ice-veecveceseenecrsacsscacspansevnspecanssccotenhsadsduedssoigesests buetensoaneoucdianesseasie 66

iv. Article 83(2)(d) GDPR: the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor taking into
account technical and organisational measures implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25 and

OE Saas sien derma qapbciknieg sha scp 2075523 589252396 is cacsds pus d oye vacpoaas Wows Dene cdloe Tae abe cne'ep nul ence scheuseiaeshsesoaesdtoesaesasapadeaass 67
v. Article 83(2)(e) GDPR: any relevant previous infringements by the controller or processor; ......68
vi. Article 83(2)(f) GDPR: the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority, in order to

remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement; ............. 68
vii. Article 83(2)(g) GDPR: the categories of personal data affected by the infringement; .............. 68

vili. Article 83(2)(h) GDPR: the manner in which the infringement became known to the
supervisory authority, in particular whether, and if so to what extent, the controller or processor
PREVENTAEES TALE TORSU STATI VON OLS 26205 stooge coe y wale cas dad ge vaedigr va vadags Uphles na ee ePeae oho dae Uans Ueda aa tua xyes eon aiaatinnd asccads 69

ix. Article 83(2)(i) GDPR: where measures referred to in Article 58(2) have previously been ordered
against the controller or processor concerned with regard to the same subject-matter, compliance
WPTEHL LENOSEL CTU SUMS cies Se veyvyscyn evseviegeyeaaysgrossat vacnrsnccpu geen sslue = dud baascacins satesias abnasds ch dats aadss cabadA MAAS 70

x. Article 83(2)(j) GDPR: adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40 or
approved certification mechanisms pursuant to Article 42........0...ccc.ccccccesessseeeseeeveesscensscenerseeeseceeves 70

xi. Article 83(2)(k) GDPR: any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the
circumstances of the case, such as financial benefits gained, or losses avoided, directly or

THRU ESRI, TPCT TENG SENT ITI NE cies sans cosarsaaecesagA ian aap ecatzznsas cusueeuavas onsassancycsnencopicpssa wesapigesisdgsienienes 70
b) Decision on the amount of the administrative fine ...........cccccccccesecscesseccecenseeeeceaseseeeusceceessverceacers 73
DD. TARE BSS SS BIG 5s iscnvnceevpoavedslcntea denvah veree sass cgnsibasbar'esviga eedeode obaeel noo see uwoe er sumcas saeuaah ult ea beabaain 73
it} ‘Categorisation Of Che Infricweme ts « :.ic ai .iceiiscsiescccccsccasdssanshngneqoacasednnces{esoodedeoeesaseisanoearesseodonses 76
iii) Seriousness of the infringement pursuant to Articles 83(2)(a), (b) and (g) GDPR................. 77
iv) Imposing an effective, dissuasive and proportionate fiMe ...........cccccccsceeeesscsessecneeeseecneneceveeen 77
v) Aggravating and mitigating CircUMStANCeS .........ccccccccecscscscscsesseesseesscensseescensccrecenserensensncanencaes 78
vi) The relevant legal maximums for administrative fines .............000....cccccceeceeeseececeeseeeecerenneen 79
vii) Article 83(1) GDPR: Effectiveness, proportionality and dissuasiveness...........c:ccccccsseseceeseeee 79
BITC CETNISS ccgscicsaudeGo cas snagh'eg saba'gs chodeedsofodh chs dunce cuzsa'vce< gu naoescdsyscbespasboass tp sbiaesbeaasennis cbedesiseksansasahsaachaahises 79
LISS LEIS VT IRIS S pc cassidan vases eaulicligupeoeposioea ren dea aa ame oa UTS a Teas Ai deags egsalosu entgeagn'cyedusgvabesn die sencee 79
CEPOL TOOTING HED 5 5a ce<cn=gaaas s0n9s 20656555555 0r28esk 90500085 ToaSoas~ 9420-20 Sood ve besos Ob sree ob adu veech sav eabunonnabs eoabsaliegnsasdeesyeeT} 80
11. RRMRIND PAT: PAREN CAIN Es che Canc ag5c04icc Can ses cas cas babes ac chods ARS cmidiies Abia ADA lds oe arkansas Mpaliadastin Octet alt 81

1. Introduction

1.1. This document is a Final Decision (the ‘Decision’) of the Data Protection Commission
(the ‘DPC’) in accordance with sections 111 and 124 of the Data Protection Act 2018
(the ‘2018 Act’). As the two members of the DPC, we perform this function in our
roles as the Commissioners and decision-makers in the DPC. The DPC makes this
Decision having considered the information obtained in the separate own volition
inquiry (the ‘inquiry’) conducted by Authorised Officers of the DPC pursuant to
sections 110 and 123 of the 2018 Act (the ‘Inquiry Team’).The Authorised Officers
who conducted the inquiry provided Sligo County Council (the ‘Council’) with the
Draft Inquiry Report and the Final Inquiry Report.

1.2 The Council was provided with a draft decision on this inquiry (the ‘Draft Decision’)
on 14 September 2023 to afford the Council an opportunity to make any further
submissions, which it deemed necessary. The DPC received submissions from the
Council relating to the Draft Decision on 13 October 2023. The Council was provided
with a Revised Draft Decision on 20 June 2024 to give it a final opportunity to make
any further submissions that it deemed necessary, including as to the proposed
findings and the proposed corrective powers. The Council responded on 3 July 2024
to say that it would not be making any further submissions. The DPC has considered
the submissions made by the Council in advance of arriving at the Decision in
accordance with sections 111 and 124 of the 2018 Act. This Decision is being
provided to the Council pursuant to Sections 116(1)(a) and 126(a) of the 2018 Acct in
order to give the Council notice of the Decision, the reasons for it, and the corrective
powers that the DPC has decided to exercise.

1.3. It is important to point out that the views of the Inquiry Team as expressed in the
Draft Inquiry Report and Final Inquiry Report and the findings set out in this Decision
are based on the situations that pertained during the inspection phase of the inquiry
itself (i.e. on 1 April 2019 and 8 April 2019 when the physical inspections were
conducted). For the avoidance of any doubt, this Decision covers the period of the
inquiry up to the conclusion of the inspection phase.

1.4 The Decision contains corrective powers under sections 115 and 127 of the 2018 Act
and Article 58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation (the ‘GDPR’) arising from
the infringements which have been identified herein. The Council is required to
comply the corrective powers that are exercised in the Decision and it is open to this
office to serve an enforcement notice on the Council in accordance with section 133
of the 2018 Act.

2. Factual Background

2.1 The GDPR and the Law Enforcement Directive (the ‘LED’) elaborate on the indivisible,
universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity as enshrined in

2.2

2.3

the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU (‘the Charter’) and Article 8 in particular,
which safeguards the protection of personal data. Article 8 of the Charter provides:

1. Everyone has the right to the protection of personal data concerning
him or her.

2. Such data must be processed fairly for specified purposes and on the
basis of the consent of the person concerned or some other legitimate
basis laid down by law. Everyone has the right of access to data which
has been collected concerning him or her, and the right to have it
rectified.

3. Compliance with these rules shall be subject to control by an
independent authority,

The use of technologies for surveillance purposes by the State can significantly
impact the rights and freedoms of individuals. This is particularly the case if the
manner in which such technologies are deployed does not comply with data
protection law. Authorised Officers from the Special Investigation Unit of the DPC
were authorised to conduct a connected series of own-volition inquiries under
sections 110 and 123 of the 2018 Act into a broad range of issues pertaining to
surveillance technologies deployed by state authorities, in particular, the various
local authorities and An Garda Siochana for law enforcement purposes. In initiating
the inquiries, the DPC wished:

(i) To establish whether any data processing that takes place in this context is
in compliance with the relevant data protection laws; and

(ii) To ensure that full accountability measures for the collection and
processing of personal data are in place in advance of further investment
and deployment of newer surveillance technologies.

The inquiry leading to this Decision was conducted initially by means of an audit
under section 136 of the 2018 Act. This facilitated the Authorised Officers in
compiling facts in relation to the deployment of surveillance technologies by the
Council. On 15 June 2018, the DPC formally notified the Data Protection Officer of
the Council in writing that the DPC intended to conduct an audit of the Council
pursuant to section 136 of the 2018 Act. The notice advised the Data Protection
Officer that the audit would commence on 25 June 2018 and that the opening phase
of the audit would involve the DPC providing a questionnaire to be completed over
the following twenty-one days. The notice also advised that once the response to the
questionnaire was considered, the Data Protection Officer would be informed about
the next phase of the data protection audit which may include, for example, the
issuing of a further questionnaire, or on-site inspections by Authorised Officers of the
Commission, or meetings (if deemed necessary) with the local authority, or the use
of any of the Commission’s other statutory powers that may be deemed necessary
at the time to advance the inquiry.

2.4

2.5

2.6

2.7

The notice advised that the audit would inquire into the processing of personal data,
by or on behalf of the Council, through the use of CCTV and Automated Number Plate
Recognition (‘ANPR’) systems and any other technologies that may be used to
monitor individuals. The DPC informed the Council that the processing of personal
data by means of CCTV security cameras situated on or in local authority offices or
other local authority buildings for the purpose of safeguarding persons or property
on the premises or in its environs was excluded from the scope of the inquiry. The
Council was informed that the information obtained in the inquiry would be relied
upon by the DPC in making a decision as to whether the 2018 Act and/or the GDPR
has been infringed and if so, whether corrective powers should be exercised.

On 25 June 2018, the DPC formally notified the Data Protection Officer in writing that
the audit of the Council had commenced and enclosed Questionnaire No. 1. A period
of twenty-one days was given to the Council to answer Questionnaire No. 1, The DPC
received the completed Questionnaire No. 1 with a number of attachments from the
Council on 10 August 2018.

On 4 March 2019, the DPC notified the Data Protection Officer in writing about the
next phase of the inquiry which would involve inspections by the Authorised Officers.
The notice referred to the Authorised Officers powers of search and inspection
pursuant to section 130 of the 2018 Act. It explained that the Authorised Officers
would first need to meet with the Data Protection Officer to discuss the Council’s
replies to the questions in Questionnaire No. 1 and the accompanying attachments
submitted to ensure that they have a full and complete understanding of the
situation. In terms of inspection work, the DPC stated that as a starting point the
Authorised Officers would need to inspect CCTV monitoring centre(s) in operation
and they would need to inspect the central point for any CCTV feeds and to inspect
at least some of the CCTV camera sites. The DPC signalled that there may be further
phases which would deal with the replies to other questions in Questionnaire No. 1.

Further to this notification to the Data Protection Officer, inspections were carried
out by Authorised Officers as follows:

On 1 April 2019

® The first session on this inspection date comprised a meeting with the Data
Protection Officer and other officials at County Hall, Riverside, Sligo. In
attendance from Sligo County Council were i (Data Protection

Officer), SE GE (Environment Department), I BE (Finance)
and (i BR (Housing).

e® The second session of this inspection comprised an on-site inspection at the
CCTV control room in a County Council property at Cranmore, Sligo. In
attendance from Sligo County Council were (i (Data Protection

Officer), ME GY (Housing) and a GE (Community Warden

Cranmore).

2.8

Two Authorised Officers of the Data Protection Commission, Si and
GE , were in attendance throughout both sessions.

On 8 April 2019

The first session comprised an inspection of CCTV cameras and recording

equipment at Sligo Harbour. In attendance were NN (Data
Protection Officer) and MM (Harbour Master).

The second session comprised an inspection of CCTV cameras and recording
equipment at the Lidl site and ESB Building. In attendance were Sy

GEE (02t2 Protection Officer), I 2c i

The third session comprised an inspection of CCTV cameras and recording
equipment at the Market Yard site. In attendance were 7D

(Data Protection Officer), J! and

The fourth session comprised an inspection of CCTV cameras and recording
equipment at the Supermacs site. In attendance were A (Data

Protection Officer), I 2c ia

The fifth session comprised an inspection of CCTV cameras and recording
equipment at Ballisodare Community Centre. In attendance were

GEE (02t2 Protection Officer), I 2d i

Two Authorised Officers of the Data Protection Commission, i SM and
GE. were in attendance throughout all sessions.

The DPC has relied on the information gathered from this inquiry in the context of
this Decision.

The DPC received a CCTV Inventory on 22 March 2019. In summary, the inventory
shows that as of the date of the inquiry, the Council deploys the following
surveillance technologies:

23 CCTV Cameras operated by Housing Department, 19 of these cameras also
feed on a live basis into Sligo Garda Station;

15 CCTV Cameras at Sligo Harbour;
14 Covert Cameras operated by the Environment Department;

CCTV cameras in operation at 9 bottle bank sites under the control of the
Environment Department; and

2.9

* 1ANPR camera in operation at one of these bottle bank sites.

Ultimately the Authorised Officers completed a final Inquiry Report which they
submitted for decision-making on 19 March 2020. The DPC is obliged to consider that
Inquiry Report and reach final conclusions regarding any infringements of data
protection legislation. As set out above, this document is the Decision of the DPC on
this matter and includes the corrective powers that the DPC has chosen to exercise
arising from the infringements that are identified herein.

2.10 The findings made in this Decision include, amongst other things, findings concerning

2.11

a CCTV system authorised by the Garda Commissioner under section 38 of the Garda
Siochana Act 2005 (the ‘2005 Act’). This Decision does not consider the criteria used
to assess and approve this CCTV system, nor does it consider whether the approval
process was correctly undertaken,

The DPC is satisfied that the audit and inquiry were correctly conducted and that fair
procedures were followed throughout, including, but not limited to, notifications to
the controller and an opportunity for the controller to comment on a draft inquiry
report before it was finalised.

3. Topics arising in this Decision

3.1

3.2

3.3

This Decision considers the processing of personal data through a range of
technologies, including CCTV and ANPR systems. The contexts of the processing
Operations are diverse and include traffic management, public safety, crime
prevention and investigation and preventing anti-social behaviour.

As a result of the different purposes for processing, two overarching legal regimes
must be applied in this Decision: the GDPR and the Law Enforcement Directive (the
‘LED’). Furthermore, in determining the lawful basis for the various processing
operations, this Decision must consider a broad range of legislation. The following
legislation is considered in this regard:

(i) Garda Siochana Act 2005 (as amended);

(ii) Litter Pollution Act 1997 (as amended);

(iii) Local Government Act 2001 (as amended);
(iv) Housing Acts 1966 to 2021; and

(v) Waste Management Act 1996 (as amended).

The data protection matters considered in this Decision are also diverse. However,
they can be divided into three thematic issues:

(i) The lawful bases for the processing;

(ii) Transparency (including privacy policies and CCTV policies); and

(iii) Accountability and technical and organisational measures.

3.4 As outlined below, this Decision finds that there is no lawful basis for some of the

Council’s processing of personal data as identified in the inquiry. Notwithstanding
the unlawfulness of such processing, for completeness, this Decision proceeds to
consider the issues identified by the inquiry regarding transparency and
accountability and technical and organisational measures, even in respect of
processing that has been found to be unlawful.

4. Legal regime pertaining to the inquiry and the Decision

4.1

4.2

4.3

Some of the processing of personal data by the Council detailed in this Decision falls
to be regulated under the GDPR and some falls under the LED.

The GDPR is the legal regime covering the processing of personal data in the
European Union. As a regulation, the GDPR is directly applicable in EU member
states. The GDPR was supplemented in Irish law by the 2018 Act. However, Article
2(2)(d) of the GDPR provides that:

This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data ... by
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation,
detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal
penalties, including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to
public security.

The LED is a /ex specialis that provides specific rules with regard to the processing of
personal data for such purposes. The LED is transposed into Irish Law by Part 5 of the
2018 Act, which, as set out in section 70 therein provides:

This Part applies, subject to subsection (2), to the processing of personal data
by or on behalf of a controller where the processing is carried out—

(a) for the purposes of—

(i) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences,
including the safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to public
security, or

(ii) the execution of criminal penalties,
and

(b) by means that—

(i) are wholly or partly automated, or

(ii) where the personal data form part of, or are intended to form part of, a
relevant filing system, are not automated.

4.4

Therefore, the LED will apply to processing of personal data if the following two steps
are fulfilled:

(i) The processing is carried out by or on behalf of a ‘controller’, as defined in
section 69 of the 2018 Act.

(ii) The processing is carried out for the purposes of the prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including the
safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to public security, or
the execution of criminal penalties.

(i) Controller

4.5

4.6

4.7

1 Per Lord
page 524.

Regarding the first limb of this test, there are two distinct routes to fulfilling the
definition of ‘controller’ in this context, defined in section 69 as:

(a) a competent authority that, whether alone or jointly with others,
determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data, or

(b) where the purposes and means of the processing of personal data are
determined by the law of the European Union or otherwise by the law of
the State, a controller nominated—

(i) by that law, or
(ii) in accordance with criteria specified in that law;

Part (a) of the definition of controller applies only to competent authorities.
‘Competent authority’, for the purposes of Part 5, is defined in section 69(1) as
including:

(a) a public authority competent for the prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties in the
State, including the safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to
public security, or....

This definition of ‘competent authority’ is broad. The use of the word ‘or’ is
disjunctive, meaning that competence for any one or more of preventing,
investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences is sufficient to bring pubic
authorities within the definition of ‘Competent authority’. It is well-established in
statutory interpretation “that generally it is assumed that ‘or’ is intended to be used
disjunctively and the word ‘and’ conjunctively”*. There is no basis for departing from
the ordinary meaning of the word ‘or’ and it cannot have been the intention of the
Oireachtas to bring about a conjunctive interpretation. The definition of ‘competent
authority’ is not context specific. However, in order to constitute a ‘controller’ under

Salmon, Federal Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v Department of Trade and Industry (1974] 1 WLR, at

10

4.8

part (a) of the definition, a competent authority must also determine the purposes
and means of the processing, alone or jointly.

Part (b) of the definition of ‘controller’ details how, in alternative to the part (a)
route, controllers can be nominated by, or in accordance with criteria specified in EU
or national law. There is no requirement under part (b) that the entity or individual
is a competent authority. However, the means and purposes of the processing must
be determined by EU or national law.

(ii) Purpose of the Processing

4.9

4.10

4.11

4.12

The second limb of the test requires that the processing is carried out for the
purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal
offences, including the safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to public
security, or the execution of criminal penalties.

To satisfy this limb of the test, the primary purposes of the processing must reflect
those law enforcement purposes. One must look to the specific reasons for the
processing. It is not sufficient that the data being processed could in theory also be
used for law enforcement purposes on a secondary basis, The specific reasons for
the processing must reflect those law enforcement purposes.

In Puskar v Finance Directorate of the Slovak Republic* the Court of Justice of the
European Union (the ‘CJEU’) considered the scope of the Data Protection Directive,*
specifically the Directive’s non-application to processing operations concerning the
activities of the State in areas of criminal law.* This case considered the inclusion of
an individual’s name on a list of persons that the Finance Directorate considered
‘front-men’ in company director roles. The data at issue were processed for the
purpose of collecting tax and combating tax fraud. However, that data could be used
in criminal proceedings if infringements were identified. The Court considered the
purposes of the processing and held that the data were not collected:

for the specific purpose of the pursuit of such criminal proceedings or in the
context of State activities relating to areas of criminal law.°

On that basis, the criminal law exclusion was not applicable, and the Data Protection
Directive was held to apply to that processing.

In this case, the CJEU adopted a strict interpretation of the scope of the criminal law
exclusion in the Data Protection Directive. For that exclusion to apply, it is not
sufficient that the data could potentially be used in criminal proceedings. Rather, the

2 Case C-73/16, Peter Puskar v Finance Directorate of the Slovak Republic, judgment of 27 September 2017
(ECLI:EU:C:2017:725).

3 Directive 95/45/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data.

4 That exclusion is provided for in Article 3(2) of the Directive.

5 Case C-73/16, Peter Puskar v Finance Directorate of the Slovak Republic, judgment of 27 September 2017
(ECLI:EU:C:2017:725), at paragraph 40.

11

data must have been collected for the specific purpose of the pursuit of criminal
proceedings. A similarly strict interpretation of the application of the LED and section
70 of the 2018 Act is warranted. Thus, processing is carried out for the purposes of
the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences only if
the controller's reasons for the processing specifically reflects one or more of those
purposes. It is not sufficient that the data could potentially also be used for law
enforcement purposes if those purposes did not form part of the controller’s specific
reasons for processing.

a) Processing that falls under the GDPR

4.13

4.14

4.15

The GDPR is applicable to the Council’s processing of personal data in relation to
CCTV cameras and ANPR cameras which are used for the primary purpose of security.

Here, the Council is not processing personal data for the purposes of the prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences.

Although the data processed through the use of Traffic Management CCTV cameras
has the potential for subsequent use by An Garda Siochana for the purposes of
facilitating the deterrence, prevention, detection and prosecution of offences, this
does not form part of the Council’s purposes for this processing. Therefore, this
processing is not for the specific purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or
prosecuting criminal offences or executing criminal penalties, The second limb of the
test for the LED to apply is not satisfied and the GDPR is applicable.

b) Processing that falls under the LED

4.16

(i)

The LED is applicable to the remainder of the processing operations that fall for
consideration in this Decision. These processing operations include:

a. The use by the Housing Department of CCTV cameras at certain housing
estates for the purposes of preventing and detecting anti-social behaviour;
and

b. The use by the Environment Department of CCTV cameras and one ANPR
camera to prevent and detect illegal dumping in exercising the Council’s
criminal enforcement functions under the Litter Pollution Act 1997.

CCTV relating to Housing Estates and Bottle Banks

4.17 The purposes of the processing of personal data captured through CCTV cameras

used by the Housing Department of the Council at housing estates bring that
processing under the LED. Personal data collected via those CCTV cameras is used by
the Council for the purposes of preventing anti-social behaviour pursuant to
legislation applicable to the management of housing estates and for the purposes of
preventing, detecting and prosecuting illegal dumping pursuant to legislation
applicable to littering and dumping. Thus, each piece of technology is used with the

12

4.18

4.19

(ii)

4.20

4.21

specific purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting and/or prosecuting criminal
offences.

The CCTV systems operated by the Council at bottle bank facilities, which have not
been authorised under the 2005 Act, also fall under the LED. The Council is a
controller of this personal data within part (a) of that definition in section 69 of the
2018 Act. As we have seen, the Council is a competent authority. It determines the
purposes and means of the processing. It decided to install those CCTV systems for
purposes of preventing and detecting illegal dumping. Thus, the Council determines
the purposes for operating the CCTV systems at those locations. It also determines
the means of the processing by determining how the data are processed. It controls
who has access to the footage, when the footage is deleted, and which images to
capture. Thus, the Council is a controller within the meaning of section 69 of the 2018
Act.

Regarding the Council's use of CCTV systems, the Council is a ‘controller within part
(a) of that definition under section 69 (above). The Council is a competent authority
because it enjoys competence for the prevention of certain anti-social behaviour
under the Housing Acts 1966 to 2021 and for the prevention, investigation, detection
and prosecution of litter related offences under the Litter Pollution Act 1997 and the
Waste Management Act 1996 (as amended). Furthermore, it is subject to a general
duty to have regard to the importance of taking steps for the prevention of crime,
when performing its functions, under section 37(1) of the 2005 Act.

CCTV authorised under section 38 of the 2005 Act

The CCTV systems operated by the Council pursuant to section 38 of the 2005 Act
also fall under the LED. The Council is a ‘Controller’ within part (b) of that definition.
The purposes and means of the processing are determined by section 38 of the 2005
Act and the delegated legislation made pursuant to it. Section 38(1) sets out the sole
or primary purpose of the CCTV as “securing public order and safety in public places
by facilitating the deterrence, prevention, detection and prosecution of offences”. The
means of the processing of the personal data are set out in section 38 and the
delegated legislation made pursuant to it, including who has access to the CCTV® and
the systems that can be used.’

The Council is nominated as controller of this processing by Article 4(d) of the Garda
Siochana (CCTV) Order 2006°, which requires local authorisation for the operation
and installation of the CCTV. The Council has done so in respect of the authorisations.
Thus, it is a controller pursuant to part (b) of the definition of controller.

6 Section 38(7) requires the Council to ensure that members of An Garda Siochana have access to the CCTV at

all times for, inter alia, the purpose of retrieving information or data recorded by the CCTV.

? CCTV is defined in section 38(14) defines CCTV as “any fixed and permanent system employing optical devices
for recording visual images of events occurring in public places”. Section 38(1) authorises such systems.

8S.1. No. 289/2006 — Garda Siochana (CCTV) Order, 2006.

13

4,22 The sole or primary purpose of the Council's operation of this CCTV is statutorily

4.23

determined in section 38(1) of the 2005 Act as “securing public order and safety in
public places by facilitating the deterrence, prevention, detection and prosecution of
offences”. The second step in the test for applying the LED requires the processing to
be for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offences. This is not a cumulative test, and any one of these purposes is
sufficient to bring the processing under Part 5. Therefore, even though the Council
does not use this CCTV to investigate or prosecute criminal offences, it is clear that it
records CCTV at these locations for the purpose of securing public order and safety
by facilitating the prevention of criminal offences. This purpose alone is sufficient to
bring the processing under the LED and Part 5 of the 2018 Act.

Where data are processed for one purpose and then used for another, if the purpose
changes with that new use, the GDPR may become applicable. There is no evidence
in the inquiry that suggests that the Council processed the CCTV data for any purpose
that would exclude the application of the LED and Part 5 of the 2018 Act.

5. Data Controller

SB |

This Decision and the corrective measures that are contained herein are addressed
to the Council as a controller for the processing concerned.

6. Personal Data

6.1

6.2

‘Personal data’ is defined under the GDPR as “any information relating to an
identified or identifiable natural person”.? Section 69 of the 2018 Act implements a
similar definition of ‘Personal data’ under the LED.

This Decision concerns CCTV systems and ANPR systems. These devices capture
visual images of individuals and vehicles. It is possible to identify individuals from
such images. Thus, the data processed by the devices includes “personal data”.

7. Analysis and Findings

F ps

7.2

The Authorised Officers identified a total of 14 issues in the course of the inquiry.
This Decision will consider each in turn and also considers the commonality of issues
identified.

Since the inquiry commenced, the Council has taken steps to address some of the
issues identified in the inquiry. This Decision sets out findings as to whether
infringements of the GDPR and/or the 2018 Act have occurred during the temporal
scope of the inquiry (from commencement of the inquiry to the dates of the
inspections conducted by the Authorised Officers) even if those infringements have
since been addressed, or are occurring. Therefore, it is acknowledged that some of

9 Article 4 GDPR.

14

the issues leading to the findings in this Decision may since have been addressed by
the Council.

a) Legal bases for the surveillance technologies employed for the purposes of preventing,
investigating, detecting or prosecuting crime

CCTV Cameras
1. Environment Section: Legal Basis for CCTV Cameras at bottle banks to
detect illegal dumping

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 3

7.3

7.4

7.5

7.6

CCTV cameras were operated by the Environment Section of the Council at nine
bottle bank facilities for the purposes of facilitating enforcement of the Litter
Pollution Act 1997. In light of the purposes of the processing, this activity falls under
the LED. The DPC must assess whether the Council had a legal basis to process
personal data collected via these cameras in these circumstances.

The Council has powers and duties for the prevention, investigation, detection and
prosecution of litter related offences under the Litter Pollution Act 1997 and the
Waste Management Act 1996 (as amended). It relied on these functions as a lawful
basis for these CCTV systems on the basis that the CCTV systems were necessary for
the performance of those functions.

Section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act requires that ‘data shall be processed lawfully and
fairly’. Section 71(2) expands on the requirement that personal data be processed
lawfully, providing that:

(2) The processing of personal data shall be lawful where, and to the extent
thot—

(a) the processing is necessary for the performance of a function of a
controller for a purpose specified in section 70 (1)(a) and the function has a
legal basis in the law of the European Union or the law of the State,

or

(b) the data subject has, subject to subsection (3), given his or her consent
to the processing.

Section 71 of the 2018 Act must be interpreted alongside Article 8 of the LED. In
National Asset Management Agency v Commissioner for Environmental
Information®, the Supreme Court interpreted the Irish legislation’ that

10 National Asset Management Agency -v- Commissioner for Environmental Information [2015] \ESC 51.
11 Statutory Instrument No. 133 of 2007.

15

implemented Directive 2003/4/EC.* The definition of ‘public authority’ in the Irish
legislation contained additional paragraphs to that in the Directive. The Court held,
in relation to interpreting legislation introduced pursuant to obligations to
implement in national law the Directive, which itself was adopted in compliance with
an obligation undertaken by the EU (and Ireland) under an international treaty:

this specific obligation undertaken by Ireland as a member of the EU requires
that the courts approach the interpretation of legislation in implementing a
directive, so far as possible, teleologically, in order to achieve the purpose of
the directive.

7.7. The Court went on to hold that:

if even as a matter of purely domestic interpretation, the provisions of those
subparagraphs might appear to either fall short of what is required by the
Directive, or go further, an Irish court might be required to adopt another
interpretation which is consistent with the provisions of the Directive, if that is
possible.**

7.8 In Minister for Justice and Equality, Commissioner of An Garda Siochana v Workplace
Relations Commission**, the Court of Justice of the European Union confirmed that
‘the principle of primacy of EU law requires not only the courts but all bodies of the
Member States to give full effect to EU rules’*®. This case concerned the duty to
disapply national legislation that is contrary to EU law. The duty to interpret national
legislation teleologically to achieve the intended purpose of a Directive is equally
applicable to all Member State bodies.

7.9 Therefore, section 71 of the 2018 Act must be interpreted teleologically, in order to
achieve the purpose of the LED. It is a clear purpose of the LED that processing that
falls within its scope must be based on Union or Member State law. Article 8 of the
LED provides for the lawfulness of processing:

1. Member States shall provide for processing to be lawful only if and to the
extent that processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out by
a competent authority for the purposes set out in Article 1(1) and that it is based
on Union or Member State law.

2. Member State law regulating processing within the scope of this Directive
shall specify at least the objectives of processing, the personal data to be
processed and the purposes of the processing.

12 Directive 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to
environmental information and repealing Council Directive 90/313/EEC.

13 Ibid At paragraph 10.

14 |bid at paragraph 11.

15 Case C-378/17, Minister for Justice and Equality, Commissioner of An Garda Siochana v Workplace Relations
Commission, judgment of 4 December 2018 (ECLI:EU:C:2018:979).

16 At paragraph 39.

16

7.10 Thus, Article 8(1) sets out two criteria that must be fulfilled for processing to be
lawful; first, the processing must be necessary for the performance of a task of a
competent authority; and second, the processing must be based on Union or
Member State law. Where Member State law forms the basis for processing, Article
8(2) elaborates on what must be specified in that law. It must specify the objectives
of processing, the personal data to be processed and the purposes of the processing.

7.11 The requirement in section 71 of the 2018 Act that data be processed lawfully must
be interpreted as requiring that the processing be based on Union or Member State
law. It goes beyond requiring that the controller's function alone is based on law.
Member State law must specify the objectives of processing, the personal data to be
processed and the purposes of the processing as per Article 8(2) of the LED.

7.12 The matters that Member State law must specify do not necessarily have to be
codified in an Act of the Oireachtas, but they must have a clear legal basis, for
example in the common law or statutory instrument. The Member State law must be
clear, precise and its application must be foreseeable. Recital 33 of the LED
elaborates on the form that such Member State law must take and what must be
specified therein:

Where this Directive refers to Member State law, a legal basis or a legislative
measure, this does not necessarily require a legislative act adopted by a
parliament, without prejudice to requirements pursuant to the constitutional
order of the Member State concerned, However, such a Member State law,
legal basis or legislative measure should be clear and precise and its application
foreseeable for those subject to it, as required by the case-law of the Court of
Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. Member State law regulating
the processing of personal data within the scope of this Directive should specify
at least the objectives, the personal data to be processed, the purposes of the
processing and procedures for preserving the integrity and confidentiality of
personal data and procedures for its destruction, thus providing sufficient
guarantees against the risk of abuse and arbitrariness,

7.13 This means that the measures must regulate the processing by providing guidance to
controllers and data subjects as to when particular processing is permissible. This is
consistent with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For
instance, in Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner’’ the Court held (at paragraph
91):

As regards the level of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms that is
guaranteed within the European Union, EU legislation involving interference
with the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter must,
according to the Court’s settled case-law, lay down clear and precise rules
governing the scope and application of a measure and imposing minimum

17 Case C-362/14, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, judgment of 6 October
2015(ECLI:EU:C:2015:650).

17

7.14

7.15

7.16

7.17

7.18

¥.29

safeguards, so that the persons whose personal data is concerned have
sufficient guarantees enabling their data to be effectively protected against the
risk of abuse and against any unlawful access and use of that data.

An Act of the Oireachtas, for example, might implicitly provide for the processing of
certain personal data, without expressly listing each category of personal data that
is to be processed. Such an Act would be sufficient to provide a lawful basis once the
objectives, the personal data to be processed and the purposes are clear and
foreseeable from that Act.

The DPC finds that the Council’s use of CCTV footage during the temporal scope of
the inquiry could not lawfully be based on the Litter Pollution Act 1997 or the Waste
Management Act 1996. The DPC has carefully considered this legislation and the
Council’s use of CCTV to detect and take enforcement action against those engaged
in littering.

These Acts did not regulate this type of processing as is required by Article 8(2) of
the LED. Although the Acts provided the Council with certain functions, including for
the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of litter offences, and that
this implicitly provides for the processing of certain categories of personal data, the
Acts did not provide for processing of images of members of the public using CCTV
footage in this manner. There were no provisions in any of the Acts that could be said
to govern such a wide scope of processing. Even if the Acts did specify for this
personal data to be processed, in the absence of significant other amendments, the
Acts were severely lacking in rules that govern the scope and application of such
CCTV, including, among others, the criteria that must be fulfilled before installing
such CCTV, the supervision of such CCTV once installed, and the termination of the
CCTV. Furthermore, the Acts did not specify any procedures for preserving the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data processed by such CCTV.

Therefore, the DPC finds that the processing of this personal data was not lawful and
infringes section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act.

Certain sections of the Circular Economy and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2022 may
be relevant to the issue of whether the Council can process personal data with CCTV
cameras for the purposes of countering littering. However, the DPC notes that for
the period under inspection this legal basis did not exist. Accordingly, the DPC cannot
take these provisions into account in assessing whether the Council had a valid legal
basis for processing. In any event, it is important to emphasise that the controller has
an obligation to demonstrate that it processes personal data lawfully by identifying
the legal basis it relies upon for processing.

The DPC notes the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision
that all CCTV cameras at the relevant bottle bank facilities have been switched off.
However, as the CCTV cameras were in operation at the time that the inspection
phase was conducted the DPC finds that the Council infringed section 71(1)(a) of the
2018 Act.

18

Findings

7.20 The DPC finds that the Council infringed section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act by

unlawfully installing and operating CCTV cameras at the nine bottle bank facilities
under the control of the Environment Department.

2) Environment Section: Use of Covert Cameras

Inquiry Report Issue: 2, 6

Regime: LED

7.21

7.22

7.23

7.24

According to the CCTV Inventory, the Environment Section of the Council operated
16 covert CCTV cameras, 2 of which are no longer in use. The purpose of the covert
CCTV cameras was to detect illegal littering or dumping.

The decision to use covert surveillance could be made by any of five staff members
in the Environment Section. The Inquiry Team found that each decision to engage in
covert surveillance was not made at a senior level within the organisation. Covert
surveillance through the use of recording equipment such as CCTV is only permitted
on a case-by-case basis where the data is kept for the purposes of preventing,
detecting or investigating offences. Therefore, it is incumbent on the Council to have
appropriate safeguards in place for any exceptional surveillance the Council plans to
carry out. While the DPC does not wish to be prescriptive, this may include steps such
as a written protocol, sign off by multiple members and good overview practices. In
the absence of any similar safeguards, it is the DPC’s view that the Council lacked a
lawful basis to carry out such surveillance.

Furthermore, the Inquiry Team found no evidence that the Council had a formal
policy document or formal protocol in relation to the use of covert surveillance.
Section 75(1) of the 2018 Act requires the implementation of appropriate technical
and organisational measures to ensure that data processing is performed in
accordance with Part 5 of the Act 2018 and for demonstrating such compliance. The
organisational measures include the requirement at section 75(3) of the 2018 Act to
implement an appropriate data protection policy, where such implementation is
proportionate in relation to the processing activities carried out by the controller. As
outlined above, the Council must also have a legal basis for processing of personal
data in accordance with section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act.

Section 84 of the 2018 Act provides that where, having regard to its nature, scope,
context and purposes, a type of processing, and in particular a type of processing
using new technology, is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of
individuals, the controller that is proposing to carry out the processing shall conduct
an assessment of the likely impact of the proposed processing operations on the
protection of personal data (referred to as a “data protection impact assessment”)
prior to carrying out the processing. The Inquiry Team found that no data protection
impact assessment or equivalent exercise was carried out by the Council prior to the
deployment of covert CCTV cameras.

19

7.25 The DPC notes the submission made by the Council in response to the Draft Decision

that all covert cameras that were in operation at the time of the inquiry are no longer
in operation and that the Council is in the process of updating its CCTV Policy to
include a protocol on covert surveillance. The DPC also notes the Council’s
commitment to ensure that if covert surveillance is resumed in the future, the
protocol will specify that a DPIA must be carried out and decisions regarding covert
surveillance must be made at senior management level. However, as the CCTV
cameras were in operation at the time the inquiry was conducted the DPC finds the
Council has infringed sections 71(1)(a), 75(1), 75(3) and 84 of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.26

The DPC finds that the Council infringed sections 71(1)(a), 75(1), 75(3) and 84 of the
2018 Act in the operation of covert CCTV cameras at the relevant sites.

3) Environment Section: Legal Basis for ANPR Cameras to detect illegal dumping

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 4

Fiat

7.28

7.29

7.30

7.31

ANPR Cameras are cameras that use optical character recognition technology to
automatically read vehicle registration plates.

An ANPR camera was installed at Ballisodare Community Centre where a bottle bank
facility has been in operation since June 2018. Two CCTV cameras were installed at
the site, one of which has ANPR capability.

ANPR cameras capture images of vehicle number plates and may also capture images
of individuals within the relevant vehicles, depending on how the cameras operate.
It is possible for an individual to be identified from ANPR footage, either because
they are directly identifiable where images of them are captured by the ANPR
cameras, or indirectly because a controller can link the vehicle number plate with an
identifiable individual, such as the registered owner of the vehicle. As a result, the
use of ANPR cameras involves the processing of personal data. It is necessary to
assess whether the Council has a legal basis to process personal data collected via
the ANPR camera at Ballisodare Community Centre in these circumstances.

During the inquiry, the Inquiry Team probed the purpose for the inclusion of an ANPR
camera at the Ballisodare Community Centre bottle bank facility. It was explained by
the Council to the Inquiry Team that the CCTV camera supplier presented the Council
with a deal for the supply of both a standard CCTV camera and an ANPR camera
together.

in order to lawfully process personal data for law enforcement functions, a controller
must satisfy the requirements of sections 71(1)(a) and 71(2) of the 2018 Act, which
provide that in the absence of the consent of the data subject, the processing must
be necessary for the performance of a function of a controller for the purposes of
the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences,

20

including the safeguarding against, and the prevention of, threats to public security,
which has a legal basis in the law of the EU or Ireland.

7.32 The principle of data minimisation which is set out in section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act
requires that personal data shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation
to the purposes for which they are processed. Furthermore, data protection by
design and default requirements are set out in section 76 of the 2018 Act. Section 76
requires, among other things, the implementation of technical and organisational
measures in relation to, among other things, the amount of personal data collected
for the processing concerned.

7.33 The DPC considers that the capturing of images of vehicles, their drivers and
passengers as they enter and exit the area of Ballisodare Community Centre by ANPR
camera is not ‘necessary’ for the performance by the Council of its law enforcement
functions, as less intrusive means were possible. In these circumstances, it is the view
of the DPC that the Council was not entitled to rely on section 71(2)(a) as its legal
basis for processing personal data and that the Council also breached its data
minimisation obligations.

7.34 The DPC notes the Council’s submission that it no longer operates ANPR cameras at
any location. However, as the Council operated ANPR cameras at the time of the
inspection phase of the inquiry without a valid legal basis, the DPC finds that the
Council infringed section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act. Furthermore, the DPC finds that
the Council infringed sections 71(1)(c) and 76(2) of the 2018 Act as the use of the
ANPR camera technology is neither necessary nor proportionate to the purpose the
Council seeks to achieve at Ballisodare Community Centre,

Findings

7.35 The DPC finds that the Council infringed sections 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act by
installing and operating an ANPR camera at the above-mentioned location without
a clear legal basis to do so.

7.36 The DPC finds that the Council infringed sections 71(1)(c) and 76(2) of the 2018 Act
as the use of the ANPR camera technology is neither necessary nor proportionate
to the purpose it seeks to achieve at Ballisodare Community Centre.

4) Sharing live feed of CCTV cameras with An Garda Siochana
Regime: LED
inquiry Report Issue: 1

7.37 At the time of the inspection on 1 April 2019, it was established that ‘live’ or ‘real
time’ access to nineteen CCTV camera feeds had been given to An Garda Siochana at
Sligo Garda Station. An Garda Siochana is a different controller. All nineteen cameras
were authorised under section 38(3)(c) of 2005 Act. In the event that An Garda
Siochana requires a copy of CCTV footage from any of these cameras, a Council
official in the Housing Department performs the download. The Council understands

21

that An Garda Siochana use the CCTV feeds for law enforcement functions such as
crime detection and investigation.

7.38 As the primary purpose for installing cameras was securing public order and safety
and they were authorised under section 38(3)(c) of the 2005 Act, the applicable
framework for assessing the legality of processing by the Council is the LED.

7.39 With regard to the rationale for the sharing of live CCTV feeds with Sligo Garda
Station, the Council informed this inquiry by email on 14 May 2019 that at the time
of the application for the CCTV scheme in 2006, live feeds to Sligo Garda Station were
requested through the Joint Policing Committee..* Since an application for
authorisation to the Garda Commissioner was made under section 38 of the 2005
Act in respect of the traffic management cameras and the Council accordingly was
bound by section 38(7) of the 2005 Act to ensure that members of An Garda Siochana
had access to the CCTV cameras, the DPC finds that the Council did not infringe
section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act by sharing the live feed with Sligo Garda Station.

Findings

7.40 The DPC finds that the Council was obliged under section 38(7) of the 2005 Act, to
ensure that members of An Garda Siochana had access at all times to the CCTV to
which that authorisation relates and as such, has not infringed section 71(1)(a) of
the 2018 Act by sharing the live feed of CCTV cameras with An Garda Siochana.

5) Housing Department CCTV Cameras
Regime: LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 11

7.41 The Housing Department of the Council installed four CCTV cameras in the following
areas: two cameras in the Caltragh Estate, one in Doorly Park (which was not working
at the time the Inquiry Report was drafted) and one in Martin Savage Terrace (which
was also not working at the time the Inquiry Report was drafted). For the purposes
of this Decision, only the cameras which were functional at the time of the
investigation are considered. The Council confirmed that none of these CCTV
cameras have been authorised by the Garda Commissioner under section 38 of the
2005 Act. It was established on the date of the inspection that the two CCTV cameras
in the Caltragh Estate were installed about one year previously because of a high
level of anti-social behaviour in the estate. {t was stated that the other two CCTV
cameras at Doorly Park and Martin Savage Terrace were erected by the Architects

18 Section 36 of the Garda Siochana Act 2005 provides for the establishment of joint policing committees in
accordance with guidelines issued under section 35. Under section 38(1) the Garda Commissioner may authorise
the installation and operation of CCTV for the sole or primary purpose of securing public order and safety in
public places by facilitating the deterrence, prevention, detection and prosecution of offences. Section 38(3)
provides that authorisation may be provided to, inter alia, persons who meet the established criteria and whose
application for authorisation in respect of a specified area within the administrative area of a local authority has
been approved by the local authority after consulting with the joint policing committee for that administrative
area.

22

Department of the Council in 2016 without any prior research having been done on
the need for them.

7.42 When asked about the legal basis for the four CCTV cameras, the Council
acknowledged that there was no legal basis for any of the cameras at the time. It
indicated that it was considering seeking Garda Commissioner authorisation under
section 38 of the 2005 Act in respect of the two CCTV cameras in the Caltragh Estate
and it stated that it had no plans to repair the other two CCTV cameras which were
not working at the time.

7.43 In the circumstances, the DPC considers that the Council does not have a legal basis
for the processing of personal data by these CCTV cameras. In order to have such a
legal basis, the Council would need to be in a position to demonstrate that the
operation of the CCTV schemes was necessary in order to satisfy the legal obligation
in question, This aspect of matters requires the carrying out of a data protection
impact assessment or equivalent exercise. Based on the information provided to the
inquiry, however, no such assessment or equivalent exercise was carried out by the
Council prior to the deployment of CCTV cameras at the council estates listed above.

7.44 The DPC notes the Council’s submission that CCTV cameras at Doorly Park and Martin
Savage Terrace are no longer operational. The DPC further notes the Council's
submission that it is seeking authorisation from An Garda Siochana under section 38
of the 2005 Act for operation of CCTV cameras at Caltragh Estate and that a DPIA will
be carried out on these cameras once authorisation is received. However, as the
Council processed personal data via CCTV cameras at the abovementioned sites
without a valid legal basis at the time of the inspection, the DPC finds that the Council
infringed section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act.

Findings
7.45 The DPC finds that the Council infringed section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act by not
having a lawful basis to process personal data collected via CCTV cameras.

23

b) Legal bases for the surveillance technologies employed for purposes other than for
preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting crime

i) CCTV Cameras

1) Sligo Harbour CCTV cameras

Regime: GDPR

Inquiry Report Issue: 7

7.46 At the time of the inspection on 8 April 2019, there were fifteen CCTV cameras

7.47

7.48

7.49

7.50

7.51

operated by the Council at Sligo Harbour. The Council stated that it uses these CCTV
cameras for security purposes and to monitor the smooth running of Sligo Harbour.
This includes, for example, ensuring that members of the public do not approach
ships when they are in port and that when cargo is not obstructed while being
transported to ships.

These CCTV cameras do not fall under the scope of section 38 of the 2005 Act and,
therefore, they have not been authorised by the Garda Commissioner for the sole or
primary purpose of securing public order and safety in public places by facilitating
the deterrence, prevention, detection and prosecution of offences.

The DPC must assess whether the Council has a legal basis to process personal data
collected via these CCTV cameras for security purposes and to monitor the smooth
running of Sligo Harbour. Article 5(1)(a) GDPR provides that personal data must be
“.processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data
subject”. In order to lawfully process personal data using CCTV cameras, a controller
must satisfy at least one of the conditions in Article 6(1) of the GDPR. If the controller
cannot do so, then its processing of personal data will be contrary to the requirement
under Article 5(1)(a) of the GDPR to ensure that personal data is processed lawfully.

The Council did not cite any legal basis for the operation of these cameras.

The deployment of wide-spread video devices has significant potential to impact on
the rights and freedoms of data subjects, while also, naturally, having the potential
to bring significant benefits in the context of security and managing operations. In
those circumstances, any lawful basis providing for the deployment of such
technology must be sufficiently clear, precise and foreseeable as to limit the scope
for arbitrariness in the deployment of the CCTV and to provide adequate protection
to data subjects. A clearly defined lawful basis is also necessary to restrict the scope
of the discretion of the Council to install CCTV cameras and to reduce the likelihood
of arbitrary interferences with personal data subjects’ right to the protection of their
personal data.

The Council did not cite any legislative basis for processing personal data via CCTV
cameras for security purposes and to monitor the smooth running of Sligo Harbour.

24

7.52

In these circumstances, the DPC finds that the Council cannot rely on Article 6 of the
GDPR as its legal basis for processing personal data in this context.

The DPC notes the Council's submission that it has appointed a new Data Protection
Officer and is in the process of updating its CCTV Policy, which will include a Privacy
Notice in relation to the Harbour. The DPC also notes the Council’s submission that
it will seek to employ a suitable legislative basis for processing personal data
collected via CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour. However, as the Council did not rely on
an appropriate legal basis at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC
finds that it infringed Article 5(1)(a) GDPR.

Findings

7.53

The DPC finds that the Council infringed Article 5(1)(a) of the GDPR by not having
a lawful basis to process personal data collected via these CCTV cameras for the
purposes of security and to monitor the smooth running of Sligo Harbour.

c) Appropriate signage and general transparency
i) CCTV Cameras at Sligo Harbour

Regime: GDPR

Inquiry Issue: 7

7.54

7.55

7.56

The Inquiry Team noted that none of the signage in Sligo Harbour informed the public
that the Council is the data controller nor did it provide contact details for the
Council. Some signs gave no purpose for the use of CCTV. The sign which gave details
of the purposes of CCTV was erected by Coleman Electronics. However, this sign was
not sufficiently large to enable passing drivers to read it. One of the important
considerations in terms of fair processing of personal data is an emphasis on
transparency whereby any information and communication relating to the
processing of personal data shall be easily accessible, easy to understand and that
clear and plain language be used. This concerns, in particular, information provided
to data subjects on the identity of the data controller, and the purposes of the
processing and further information to ensure fair and transparent processing in
respect of the natural persons and their right to obtain confirmation and
communication of personal data concerning them which are being processed.

The DPC must assess whether the Council complied with its transparency obligations
in connection with its collection and processing of personal data via these CCTV
cameras in these circumstances.

Article 5(1) of the GDPR provides that personal data shall be:

processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data
subject...

25

7.57 Article 12 of the GDPR expands on the requirements of the principle of transparency.
Article 12(1) provides:

The controller shall take appropriate measures to provide any information
referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and any communication under Articles 15 to
22 and 34 relating to processing to the data subject in a concise, transparent,
intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language, in
particular for any information addressed specifically to a child. The information
shall be provided in writing, or by other means, including, where appropriate,
by electronic means. When requested by the data subject, the information may
be provided orally, provided that the identity of the data subject is proven by
other means.

7.58 Article 13 of the GDPR imposes an onus on the controller to provide this information
at the time the personal data was obtained.°However, due to the volume of
information that is required to be provided to the data subject it is permissible for
the Council to adopt a “layered approach”.7°EDPB Guidelines provide that the most
important information should be included in the first layer. For CCTV surveillance,
the first layer normally will be a sign which is placed at a reasonable distance from
where the monitoring occurs.“‘The rationale for this is to allow the data subject “to
estimate which area is captured by a camera so that he or she is able to avoid
surveillance or adapt his or her behaviour if necessary.”**The content of the sign
should include the details of the purposes of the processing, the identity of the
controller and the existence of the rights of the data subject.*The contact details of
the Data Protection Officer and a reference to the more detailed second layer of
information and where and how to find it should also be included. *

7.59 The EDPB Guidelines also give details on what the content of the second layer should
be:

The second layer information must also be made available at a place easily
accessible to the data subject, for example as a complete information sheet
available at a central location (e.g. information desk, reception or cashier) or
displayed on an easy accessible poster. As mentioned above, the first layer
warning sign has to refer clearly to the second layer information. In addition, it
is best if the first layer information refers to a digital source (e.g, QR-code ora
website address) of the second layer... In addition to these options, and also to

19 This is in contrast to the requirement of Article 13 of the LED which permits this information to be provided
within a reasonable period after the controller obtains the personal data. This wording has been transposed in
section 90 of the 2018 Act.

20 EDPB Guidelines 3/2019 on processing of personal data through video devices (adopted on 10°" July 2019)
page 21.

21 Ibid page 22.

2 Ibid page 26.

23 Ibid.

24 Ibid.

26

make them more effective, the EDPB promotes the use of technological means
to provide information to data subjects. This may include for instance;
geolocating cameras and including information in mapping apps or websites so
that individuals can easily, on the one hand, identify and specify the video
sources related to the exercise of their rights, and on the other hand, obtain
more detailed information on the processing operation.”

7.60 The DPC finds that the Council infringed Article 13(1) of the GDPR by failing to provide
data subjects whose personal data was being collected via these CCTV cameras at
Sligo Harbour with details of the identity of the controller, the contact details of the
data protection officer, the purposes of the processing and details on where further
information required to be given by Article 13 can be obtained?° at the time the
personal data was processed. The EDPB Guidelines make clear this information is
required to be provided in the first layer of information. In other words, this
information should be included on signs in the vicinity of the cameras, which the
Council failed to do.

7.61 Article 13(3) of the GDPR also requires the Council to provide information to data
subjects when the Council intends to use the personal data for a purpose other than
that for which it was collected. As the Council provided the personal data to An Garda
Siochana to be used by An Garda Siochana for law enforcement purposes, there was
an obligation on the Council to notify the data subject of this intention at the time
the personal data was collected. By not providing any information to data subjects
regarding this secondary purpose in the signs, the DPC finds that the Council
infringed Article 13(3) of the GDPR.

7.62 The DPC notes the Council’s submission that it will install signage informing data
subjects of the processing of personal data through CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour
so as to ensure compliance with Articles 13(1) and 13(3) of the GDPR. However, as
this signage was not present at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the
DPC finds that the Council infringed Articles 13(1) and 13(3) GDPR.

Findings
7.63 The DPC finds the Council infringed Articles 13(1) and 13(3) of the GDPR in failing
to erect signage or by providing the necessary information to data subjects in

respect of the processing of personal data collected via these CCTV cameras at Sligo
Harbour.

3 Ibid page 27.
26 For example, by including a reference on signage to the relevant section of the Council's website or including
a QR code to the website.

27

ii) ANPR Camera at Ballisodare Community Centre

Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 5

7.64 The Inquiry Team noted that one sign was in place to notify the public that CCTV was

7.65

7.66

7.67

7.68

7.69

in operation at Ballisodare Community Centre. The sign was located on the wall of
the Community Centre close to the CCTV cameras. The signage read as follows: “CCTV
In Operation. Protected by Power Right. 071 9145107”. Power Right was the service
provider that installed the CCTV system. The signage was deficient in that it did not
indicate the purpose for which CCTV recording was taking place nor did it inform the
general public that the Council was the data controller or give contact details for the
data controller.

The DPC must assess whether the Council complied with its transparency obligations
in connection with its collection and processing of personal data via these CCTV
cameras in these circumstances.

The principle of fair processing of personal data is set out in section 71(1)(a) of the
2018 Act and the requirements in relation the data subject’s right to certain
information are set out at section 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

Given the level of data collection and data processing that is carried out by the ANPR
camera at Ballisodare Community Centre in particular, the general public should be
specifically informed that an ANPR camera is in operation at the site and the purpose
for which it is used.

The absence of appropriate signage providing information to data subjects
concerning the existence of the CCTV camera such as the identity and contact details
of the controller, the contact details of the data protection officer of the controller
(where applicable) and the purpose for which the personal data are intended to be
processed or are being processed, amounts to a breach of the Council’s obligations
under sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

The DPC notes the Council’s submission that there are no longer CCTV cameras in
operation at Ballisodare Community Centre. However, CCTV cameras were in
operation at the time of the inspection phases of the inquiry and in the absence of
appropriately worded and located signage and necessary information in respect of
the processing of personal data for purposes related to law enforcement. The DPC
therefore finds that the Council infringed sections 71(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.70

The DPC finds the Council infringed sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act by
failing to erect appropriately worded and located signage or by providing the
necessary information to data subjects in respect of the processing of personal data

28

collected via these CCTV cameras at Ballisodare Community Centre for purposes
related to law enforcement.

iii) CCTV at Forthill Estate
Regime: LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 9

7.71 The Inquiry Team noted that there was no CCTV signage on the approach roads into
the Forthill Estate to alert data subjects that their personal data would be processed
by a CCTV system once they enter the areas covered by the focus of the cameras.
The CCTV cameras at Forthill Estate were authorised by the Garda Commissioner in
January 2007 under section 38(3)(c) of the 2005 Act. Section 2.5 of the “Code of
Practice for Community Based CCTV Schemes” states: “Signs should be placed so that
the public are aware that they are entering an area which is covered by a CCTV
system. These signs should be clearly visible and legible to members of the public”.

7.72 The principle of fair processing is set out in section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act and the
requirements in relation to the data subject's right to certain information are set out
at section 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

7.73 The absence of appropriate signage providing information to data subjects on the
approach roads to Forthill Estate concerning the existence of CCTV cameras such as
the identity and contact details of the controller, the contact details of the data
protection officer of the controller (where applicable) and the purpose for which the
personal data are intended to be processed or are being processed, amounts to a
breach of the Council’s obligations under sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

7.74 The DPC notes the Council’s submissions that it is in the process of erecting
appropriate signage on the approach roads to Forthill Estate in order to comply with
its obligations under sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act. However, as this
signage was not erected at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC
finds that the Council infringed sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.75 The DPC finds the Council infringed sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act by
failing to erect appropriately worded and located signage or by providing the
necessary information to data subjects in respect of the processing of personal data
collected via these CCTV cameras at Forthill Estate for purposes related to law
enforcement.

29

d) Joint controller agreement
i) CCTV Cameras: Live Feed to Sligo Garda Station and Joint Controller Status

Regime: LED

inquiry Report Issue: 1

7.76 Section 79 of the 2018 Act provides:

7.77

7.78

7.79

Where 2 or more controllers jointly determine the purposes and means of the
processing of personal data (in this Part referred to as “joint controllers”), they
shall determine their respective responsibilities for compliance with this Part in
a transparent manner by means of an agreement in writing between them,
save in so far as the said responsibilities are determined by the law of the
European Union or the law of the State.

Sligo Garda Station was at the time of the inspection in a position to access the live
feeds from 19 CCTV cameras installed by the Council which were authorised under
section 38(3)(c) of the 2005 Act. An Garda Siochana also used the feeds from these
CCTV cameras for crime detection purposes and have access to the CCTV by way of
a live feed to Sligo Garda Station. The DPC must assess whether the Council and An
Garda Siochana acted as joint controllers in these circumstances.

Insofar as CCTV cameras have been authorised by the Garda Commissioner pursuant
to section 38 of the 2005 Act, processing falls within a joint controller relationship
and a joint controller agreement is required. Article 3(8) of the LED defines
‘controller’ as meaning ‘the competent authority which, alone or jointly with others,
determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data; where the
purposes and means of such processing are determined by Union or Member State
law, the controller or the specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by
Union or Member State law’.

Section 38 of the Garda Siochana Act 2005 provides that the Garda Commissioner
may authorise the installation and operation of CCTV for the sole or primary purpose
of securing public order and safety in public places by facilitating the deterrence,
prevention, detection and prosecution of offences. Authorisation may be given to An
Garda Siochana or to “persons who meet the established criteria and whose
application for authorisation in respect of a specified area within the administrative
area of a local authority has been approved by the local authority after consulting
with the joint policing committee for that administrative area.” Section 38(7) of the
2005 Act provides An Garda Siochana with significant decision-making ability in
relation to the personal data captured by the CCTV scheme including, among other
things, the supervision and control of the recording of CCTV and the retrieval of any
recorded information or data. The Garda Siochana (CCTV) Order 2006 provides that
applications for authorisations under section 38(3)(c) must include an undertaking
‘by the local authority concerned that it will act as a data controller in respect of the

30

CCTV’.*’ Thus, the legislation provides that the Council must also undertake the role
of controller.

7.80 Section 79 of the 2018 Act requires joint controllers to have an agreement in writing
unless those responsibilities are determined by EU law or Member State law.
Although the 2006 Order and section 38 of the 2005 Act give some details on the
operation of the CCTV arrangement,”® it does not provide for procedures on the
respective responsibilities of the controllers to allow data subjects to exercise their
rights under section 90 of the 2018 Act. A joint controller agreement governing this
relationship is thus necessary. In this regard, the inquiry report noted that - at the
time of carrying out the data protection audit - there was no arrangement in place
that stated the respective roles and responsibilities of the Council and An Garda
Siochana.

7.81 The responsibilities covered by section 79 of the 2018 Act include, among other
things, providing for the right to information under section 90 and compliance with
subject access requests under section 91. These responsibilities are not provided for
in the 2005 Act nor the delegated legislation made pursuant to it. Thus, section 79
requires an agreement in writing between the Council and An Garda Siochana. That
agreement may designate the Council as a single point of contact for data subjects if
the parties deem it appropriate. However, the lack of such agreement infringes
section 79 of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.82 The DPC finds that the Council infringed section 79 of the 2018 Act by failing to
implement an agreement in writing with An Garda Siochana detailing the issues
required by that section.

e) Security Measures for CCTV at Sligo Harbour and Cranmore
i) Accessibility of monitoring screens and recording equipment at Sligo Harbour and
Cranmore

Regime: GDPR & LED
Inquiry Issue: 7, 13

7.83 The recording equipment and monitor in respect of CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour
are housed in the Security Office at Sligo Harbour. The Inquiry Team noted that there
were no security controls in place, such as passwords, to restrict access to the
recording systems or to the monitor in the Security Office. As a result, the CCTV
system was open and the Council, as the data controller, had no means by which to
identify who had accessed the system. The processing operations of the CCTV
cameras at Sligo Harbour are governed by the GDPR.

27 §.|. No. 289/2006 - Garda Siochana (CCTV) Order, 2006, s. 4(d)
28 Ibid s. 4(e).

31

7.84 On 1 April 2019, the Inquiry Team carried out a physical inspection at the CCTV

7.85

7.86

7.87

7.88

Findi

7.89

Control Room which is located in a property controlled by the Council in Cranmore.
The feeds from sixteen CCTV cameras appear on the monitoring screen in the Control
Room. The sixteen cameras comprise fourteen that were authorised by the Garda
Commissioner under section 38(3)(c) of the 2005 Act as well as two cameras at
Doorly Park and at Martin Savage Terrace. During the inspection, the Inquiry Team
noted that there is no restriction on staff bringing smartphones, cameras or
recording devices into the CCTV Control Room while they are on duty. In the absence
of a policy and procedure to prohibit staff, or others, from bringing such devices into
the Control Room a security vulnerability arose as images appearing on the
monitoring screen could easily be recorded and removed from the CCTV Control
Room in an unauthorised manner. The processing operations at Cranmore fall within
the scope of the Law Enforcement Directive.

Under Article 5(1)(f) of the GDPR, personal data should be processed in a manner
that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including protection against
unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or
damage, using appropriate technical or organisational measures. Under Article 32(1)
of the GDPR, a controller is required to implement appropriate technical and
organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk for the
rights and freedoms of data subjects.

Sections 71(1)(f) and 72 of the 2018 Act impose equivalent obligations in respect of
security measures for processing operations falling within the scope of the Law
Enforcement Directive.

The DPC notes the Council’s submission that it is evaluating security measures for
CCTV at Sligo Harbour, that it has restricted access to the monitoring centre, and that
it has confined access to the camera recording hub to staff members with pre-
authorised clearance and in possession of key cards. However, as appropriate
measures were not in place at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the
DPC finds that the Council infringed Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR.

The DPC also notes the Council’s submission that it is in the process of erecting
signage prohibiting the use of phones or other recording devices in the CCTV
monitoring station at Cranmore. However, as this signage was not present at the
time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC finds that the Council infringed
section 71(1)(f) and 72 of the 2018 Act.

s

The DPC finds that the Council infringed Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) of the GDPR by
failing to ensure the appropriate security of the CCTV monitoring screens at Sligo
Harbour.

32

7.90 The DPC finds that the Council infringed sections 71(1)(f) and 72 of the 2018 Act by
failing to ensure the appropriate security of the CCTV monitoring screens at
Cranmore CCTV Control Room.

ii) Access Logs at Sligo Harbour and Cranmore
Regime: GDPR & LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 7, 14

7.91 The Harbour Master performed the function of downloading footage obtained from
CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour in the Security Office but no log of this downloading
activity was recorded. This was a significant deficiency in terms of the need to create
and maintain a comprehensive record of downloading activity that recorded the
details of the specific footage downloaded, the date of the downloads and the
purpose of the downloads. Moreover, the Council was uncertain whether these CCTV
systems had the capability to identify, by time and date, access to the CCTV footage
by staff.

7.92 Furthermore, during the inspection of the Cranmore CCTV Control Room it was
established that the CCTV system had the capability to log all accesses to the system.
However, users had not been trained on how to access or operate this functionality.
As a result, no active auditing of the audit trails had been carried out to determine
whether any unauthorised accesses to the CCTV system has occurred.

7.93 Article 24(1) of the GDPR obliges a data controller to implement appropriate
technical and organisational measures for the purposes of ensuring that the
processing of personal data for which it is responsible is performed in compliance
with the GDPR and for demonstrating such compliance. Good governance requires
robust controls and effective oversight including routine scrutinising of, as well as
reporting to senior management on, the operation and use of CCTV systems. The
practice of “auditing the audit trails” is a key governance measure. The absence of
effective auditing results in a lack of regular reporting to senior management of key
metrics such as the number of occasions on which the CCTV system was accessed
and the number of footage downloads, among other things.

7.94 Article 32(1) of the GDPR requires a controller to implement appropriate technical
and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk in
connection with the processing of personal data including among other things, the
ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality and integrity of processing systems. The
requirement to have an access log or an equivalent security measure can be derived
from Article 32(1) of the GDPR. An access log is necessary to demonstrate compliance
as there is no other way of verifying whether the purpose the data was processed for
was a lawful one and if the person who sought the data was legally entitled to access
it.

33

7.95 Sections 71(1)(f) and 72 of the 2018 Act impose equivalent obligations in respect of
security measures for processing operations falling within the scope of the Law
Enforcement Directive. Section 72(2) of the 2018 Act provides, inter alia, that a
controller shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that persons employed by the
controller, or other persons at the place of work concerned comply with the relevant
technical or organisational measures.

7.96 The DPC notes the Council’s submission confirming the use of paper logs and
indicating that it is investigating the introduction of digital logs at Sligo Harbour in
the near future. However, as appropriate measures were not present at the time of
the inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC finds that the Council infringed Articles
24(1) and 32(1) of the GDPR.

7.97 The DPC notes the Council’s submission confirming it is in the process of developing
training for all relevant staff regarding in relation to its CCTV policy including the
maintenance of logs at all CCTV monitoring sites. However, as appropriate measures
were not in place at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC finds
that the Council infringed section 72(2) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.98 The DPC finds that the Council infringed Articles 24(1) and 32(1) of the GDPR by
failing to maintain a data log that recorded user specific accesses of the CCTV
camera views and recorded footage from Sligo Harbour.

7.99 The DPC finds that the Council infringed section 72(2) of the 2018 Act by failing to
train staff to log accesses on the CCTV system at Cranmore CCTV Control Room.

iii) Collection of personal data for other purposes at Sligo Harbour
Regime: GDPR
inquiry Report Issue: 7

7.100From an inspection of the field of vision captured by the CCTV cameras at Sligo
Harbour it emerged that they capture images of people and vehicles that were going
about their business beyond the Sligo Harbour area. The DPC must assess whether
the Council has complied with its data minimisation obligations in these
circumstances.

7.101The principle of data minimisation is set down in Article 5(1)(c) of the GDPR and
requires that personal data shall be “adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed.” Furthermore,
data protection by design and by default requirements are set out in Article 25 of the
GDPR. It is the DPC’s view that routinely capturing and recording the images of
members of the public who are going about their daily business beyond the areas of
Sligo Harbour where this is not necessary for the purposes for which the CCTV
cameras at Sligo Harbour are used (i.e. security and monitoring the smooth operation
of the Harbour) amounts to excessive data collection.

34

7.102The DPC notes the Council’s submission that it is in the process of implementing
measures to ensure that the processing of personal data via CCTV cameras at Sligo
Harbour is compliant with Article 25 of the GDPR. However, as appropriate measures
were not in place at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC finds
that the Council infringed Articles 5(1)(c) and 25 of the GDPR.

Findings
7.103The DPC finds that the Council infringed Articles 5(1)(c) and 25 of the GDPR by
failing to ensure that the processing of personal data via CCTV cameras at Sligo

Harbour was not excessive to the purposes for which personal data are processed
by the Council in these circumstances.

f) Security Measures for Environment Department CCTV Cameras
Regime: LED

Inquiry Report Issue: 5

(i) Accessibility of Monitoring Screens at Ballisodare Community Centre, Lidl Site,
Market Yard Site, Supermacs Site and the Cranmore Control Room

7.104Ballisodare Community Centre — The Environment Department operated two CCTV
cameras located at the entrance to the grounds of Ballisodare Community Centre.
The cameras were physically located on the Community Centre building and they
focused towards the bottle bank facility. The recording equipment and monitor for
the CCTV cameras was kept in the canteen area of the Community Centre.

7.105The monitoring screen and recording equipment was kept in an open space at the
corner of the canteen. The canteen area was unlocked and it was, therefore, open to
all users of the Community Centre while in use. The CCTV equipment was not kept in
a locked cabinet which presented a security vulnerability. There were no security
controls in place, such as passwords, to restrict access to the CCTV recording system
or to the CCTV monitor. As a result, the CCTV system was open and the Council had
no means by which to identify who has accessed the system. There was no restriction
on users of the area in which the CCTV equipment is kept from bringing in
smartphones, cameras or recording devices to this area while the monitoring screen
was switched on. In the absence of a policy and procedures to prohibit staff, or
others, from bringing such devices into the area, a security vulnerability arose as
images appearing on the monitoring screen could easily be recorded and removed
from the area in an unauthorised manner.

7.106The Centre building is a County Council building that is leased to the Ballisodare
community on a long-term lease. Caretakers, keyholders, etc. at Community Centre
are not staff of the Council. Accordingly, the Council did not have sole control of the
area in which the monitoring and recording equipment is kept in the Community
Centre. As a result, the Council was reliant on the Ballisodare community to ensure

35

the safety of the equipment. This arrangement between the Council and the
Ballisodare community posed a risk of unauthorised access by non-Council staff.

7.107Lid/ Site —- The Environment Department operated one CCTV camera at the Council’s
bottle bank facility at the Lidl Site. The camera was physically located across the
nearby roadway on a pole in the grounds of an ESB building. The recording
equipment for the CCTV camera is kept in a small office that is used as a security and
post room in the adjacent ESB building. The Inquiry Team noted that there were no
restrictions on access by ESB staff to this office. Downloads of CCTV footage were
undertaken by the Litter Warden in this open and unsecured environment. This
presented a security vulnerability. There was no restriction on staff or others bringing
in smartphones, cameras or recording devices to this office. In the absence of a policy
and procedures to prohibit staff, or others, from bringing such devices into the office
a security vulnerability arose as images appearing on the monitoring screen could
easily be recorded and removed from the office in an unauthorised manner.

7.108 Market Yard Site — The Environment Department operated two CCTV cameras at the
Council’s bottle bank facility at the Market Yard site. The cameras were physically
located on the Council building across from the nearby bottle bank facility. The
recording equipment for the CCTV cameras was kept in a small room in the Roads
Section in the County Council building. The Inquiry Team noted that there was no
restriction on access by Roads Section staff to the room in which the recording
equipment was kept. This presented a security vulnerability. There was no restriction
on staff or others bringing in smartphones, cameras or recording devices to this
room. In the absence of a policy and procedures to prohibit staff, or others, from
bringing such devices into the room, a security vulnerability arose as images
appearing on the monitoring screen could easily be recorded and removed from the
room in an unauthorised manner. There were no security controls in place, such as
passwords, to restrict access to the CCTV recording system or to the CCTV monitor.
As a result, the CCTV system was open and the data controller had no means by
which to identify who has accessed the system.

7.109 Supermacs Site — The Environment Department operated one CCTV camera at the
bottle bank facility at the Supermacs site. The camera was physically located on the
Supermacs building and it focused towards the bottle bank facility. The recording
equipment and monitor for the CCTV camera was kept in the Supermacs
management office within the Supermacs building.

7.110While access to the Supermacs Management Office was restricted, this office was
used by authorised Supermacs staff for several purposes unrelated with the CCTV
recording equipment and monitor. Furthermore, Sligo County Council did not have
sole control of the office in which the equipment is kept in the Supermacs building.
As a result, it was reliant on Supermacs to ensure the safety of the recording
equipment and to maintain overall security for the office. This arrangement between
Sligo County Council and Supermacs placed the data controller, Sligo County Council,

36

in a position where it had an unsatisfactory level of control in respect of its CCTV
recording and monitoring equipment.

7.111There was no restriction on users of the Management Office bringing smartphones,
cameras or recording devices into this office. In the absence of a policy and
procedures to prohibit staff, or others, from bringing such devices into the office, a
security vulnerability arose as images appearing on the monitoring screen could
easily be recorded and removed from the office in an unauthorised manner.

7.112Where a controller is processing personal data in circumstances where the LED
regime applies, it is subject to security obligations set out in sections 71(1)(f), 72(1)
and 78 of the 2018 Act. These require that personal data should be processed in a
manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including by
implementation of appropriate technical or organisational security measures, to
protect against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss,
destruction or damage. It is the view of the DPC that by operating in a way where
there were inadequate restrictions in place to prevent unauthorised access to the
personal data collected via these CCTV systems, the Council infringed its obligations
under sections 71(1)(f), 72(1) and 78 of the 2018 Act.

7.113The DPC notes the Council’s submission confirming that all CCTV cameras which were
in operation at the nine bottle banks as specified at the time of the audit are no
longer in operation and will not be resumed until the relevant provisions of the
Circular Economy and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2022 are commenced. The DPC
also notes the Council’s submission that it is in the process of evaluating all of its
CCTV cameras to insure compliance with sections 71(1)(f), 72(1) and 78 of the 2018
Act and implementing security measures accordingly. However, appropriate
measures were not in place at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the
DPC finds that the Council infringed its obligations under sections 71(1)(f), 72(1) and
78.

Findings

7.114The DPC finds that the Council infringed its obligations under sections 71(1)(f), 72(1)
and 78 of the 2018 Act by failing to implement appropriate technical or
organisational security measures to protect against unauthorised or unlawful
processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage of personal data
collected via the camera feeds from the CCTV systems at Ballisodare Community
Centre, Lid! Site, Market Yard Site and Supermacs Site.

37

(ii) Access Logs for CCTV Systems at Ballisodare Community Centre, Lidl Site, Market
Yard Site and Supermacs Site

Regime: LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 5

7.115For each of these CCTV systems, the Litter Warden performed the function of
downloading footage but no log of this downloading activity was maintained. This
was a significant deficiency in terms of the need to create and maintain a
comprehensive record of downloading activity that records details of the specific
footage downloaded, the date of download and the purpose for the downloads.
Furthermore, the Council was uncertain whether these CCTV systems had the
capability to identify, by time and date, when staff had accessed the CCTV footage.
The DPC must assess whether the Council has complied with its security obligations
under the 2018 Act in these circumstances.

7.116Where the LED regime applies, section 75(1) places an obligation on the data
controller to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures for the
purpose of ensuring that the processing of personal data for which it is responsible
is performed in compliance with Part 5 of the Act and for demonstrating such
compliance. Furthermore, section 82(1) of the 2018 Act obliges a controller to
maintain a data log where it processes personal data by automated means, That log
must record, among other things, the consultation of the personal data by any
person. Under section 82(2), the log must contain sufficient information to establish,
among other things, the identification of the person who consulted the data, in so
far as is possible.

7.117It is the view of the DPC that by failing to operate a log system whereby, among other
things, each individual who accessed the camera feeds could be identified, the
Council infringed sections 75(1) and 82(2) of the 2018 Act.

7.118The DPC notes the Council’s submission confirming that all CCTV cameras which were
in operation at the nine bottle banks as specified at the time of the audit are no
longer in operation and will not be resumed until the relevant provisions of the
Circular Economy and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2022 are commenced. The DPC
also notes the Council’s submission that it is in the process of evaluating all of its
CCTV cameras to insure compliance with sections 75(1) and 82(2) of the 2018 Act
and implementing security measures accordingly. However, as appropriate measures
were not in place at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC finds
that the Council infringed its obligations under sections 75(1) and 82(2) of the 2018
Act.

Findings

7.119 The DPC finds that the Council infringed sections 75(1) and 82(2) of the 2018 Act by
failing to maintain a data log that recorded the identity of any individual who

38

consulted personal data contained in the CCTV camera views and recorded footage
from Ballisodare Community Centre, Lidl Site, Market Yard Site and Supermacs Site.

(iii) Collection of personal data for other purposes at Ballisodare Community Centre, Lidl
Site, Market Yard Site and Supermacs Site

Regime: LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 5

7.120From an inspection of the field of vision captured by each of the CCTV cameras at
these locations, it emerged that they captured images of people who were not using
the relevant bottle bank facility. The Inquiry Team observed that cameras at these
locations captured the following:

a. Ballisodare Community Centre — individuals visiting the Community Centre and
the adjacent sports field and vehicles entering into and exiting the Community
Centre and sports field;

b. Lid! Site — passers-by and people entering the Lidl carpark;
c. Market Yard Site — passers-by and vehicles using the adjacent roadway; and

d, Supermacs Site — individuals using the adjacent laundry facility and vehicles
exiting Supermacs.

7.121The DPC must assess whether the Council has complied with its data minimisation
obligations in these circumstances.

7.122Data processing under the LED regime must comply with the principle of data
minimisation. This principle is reflected in section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act, which
requires that “data shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed.”

7.123The Council stated that purpose of the processing of personal data via these CCTV
systems was to detect illegal dumping. Recording activities on private properties is
not relevant to this purpose. Where the CCTV focuses on both private properties and
public places, the DPC finds that the failure to use any privacy masking technology
to eliminate or reduce the collection of personal data which is not required for the
purposes for which this processing is carried out makes this processing excessive to
its purpose.

7.124Section 71(10) of the 2018 Act obliges the Council to be in a position to demonstrate,
amongst other things, that the data collected are not excessive in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed.

7.125The DPC finds that the Council infringed section 76(2) of the 2018 Act by failing to
implement technical and organisational measures which ensure that only necessary
personal data under the designated purposes of the CCTV system is collected. An
example of such a measure, is integrating privacy masking into CCTV cameras to

39

ensure that private dwellings are excluded from the scope of vision of the cameras.
Furthermore, it is the view of the DPC that the requirements of section 76(2) of the
2018 Act were not met by the Council specifically with respect to the deployment of
the CCTV system at the bottle bank facility at the Community Centre in the absence
of any evidence to warrant the installation of such a system.

7.126The DPC notes the Council’s submission confirming that all CCTV cameras which were
in operation at the nine bottle banks as specified at the time of the audit are no
longer in operation and will not be resumed until the relevant provisions of the
Circular Economy and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2022 are commenced. The DPC
notes that these provisions have subsequently commenced. The DPC also notes the
Council’s submission that it is in the process of evaluating all of its CCTV cameras to
insure compliance with sections 71(1)(c), 71(10) and 76(2) of the 2018 Act and
implementing security measures accordingly. However, as appropriate measures
were not in place at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC finds
that the Council infringed its obligations under sections 71(1)(c), 71(10) and 76(2) of
the 2018 Act.

Findings:

7.127 The DPC finds that the Council infringed sections 71(1)(c), 71(10) and 76(2) of the
2018 Act by failing to ensure that its processing of personal data via CCTV cameras
at the relevant bottle bank facilities is not excessive to its purpose of preventing
and detecting illegal dumping.

g) Accountability
(i) Data Protection Impact Assessments for CCTV and ANPR cameras

Regime: LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 5, 4
7.128Section 84(1) of the 2018 Act provides that:

Where having regard to its nature, scope, context and purposes, a type of
processing, and in particular a type of processing using new technology, is likely
to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, the controller
that is proposing to carry out the processing shall conduct an assessment of the
likely impact of the proposed processing operations on the protection of
personal data (in this Part referred to as a “data protection impact
assessment”) prior to carrying out the processing.

7.129The Council did not provide the Inquiry Team with any evidence of a data protection
impact assessment having been carried out in respect of the use of the CCTV and
ANPR cameras at Ballisodare Community Centre in connection with the performance
of the Council of its law enforcement functions in relation to the prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of offences.

40

7.130Under Article 35(4) of the GDPR, the DPC has specified circumstances in which a data
protection impact assessment is mandatory where the GDPR applies, and these
include systematically monitoring, tracking or observing individuals’ location or
behaviour, It is the view of the DPC that under section 84 of the 2018 Act, a data
protection impact assessment is similarly required where surveillance technology
will be used for systematically monitoring, tracking or observing individuals’
behaviour in circumstances where the LED applies. The Council stated that it was in
the process of or intended to conduct data protection impact assessments in respect
of its use of CCTV cameras at these bottle bank facilities. However, no such
assessments had been carried out at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry.

7.131The DPC notes the Council's submission that the CCTV and ANPR cameras are no
longer in operation at Ballisodare Community Centre. However, as these cameras
were in operation at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry in the absence
of a data protection impact assessment having been carried out, the DPC finds that
the Council infringed its obligations under section 84 of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.132 The DPC finds that the Council infringed section 84 of the 2018 Act by failing to
carry out a data protection impact assessment for the deployment of CCTV and
ANPR cameras at the bottle bank facilities at Ballisodare Community Centre.

ii) Data protection policy on CCTV
Regime: LED and GDPR
inquiry Report Issue: 8
7.133 Section 75(1) of the 2018 Act provides that (where the LED applies):
a controller shall implement appropriate technical and organisational

measures for the purposes of —

(a) ensuring that the processing of personal data for which it is responsible is
performed in compliance with this Part, and

(b) demonstrating such compliance.

7.134Section 75(3) further provides that the measures referred to in section 75(1) shall
include the implementation of an appropriate data protection policy by the
controller, where this is proportionate in relation to the processing activities carried
out by the controller.

7.135Similarly, Article 24(1) of the GDPR provides that (where the GDPR applies) the
controller shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to
ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing is performed in accordance
with the GDPR and Article 24(2) of the GDPR provides that, where proportionate, the

41

measures referred to in Article 24(1) shall include the implementation of appropriate
data protection policies.

7.136In connection with the Council’s processing of personal data via CCTV cameras, both
for law enforcement purposes and for security purposes, the Inquiry Team noted
that, at the time of the inspection, the Council had not finalised or published on the
Council website any CCTV policy. The Inquiry Team did note that at the time of the
inspection, the Council had a CCTV policy in draft format dated October 2018.

7.137The DPC is of the view that by failing to implement a finalised CCTV policy, the Council
did not have appropriate technical and organisational measures in place for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the 2018 Act with respect to the deployment
of CCTV cameras for law enforcement purposes, or compliance with the GDPR with
respect to the deployment of CCTV cameras for security purposes.

7.138 The DPC notes the Council’s submission that it is in the process of establishing a Data
Protection Committee with CCTV oversight responsibilities and that it is updating its
CCTV policy, which has been in place since 2019, to include reference to this
Committee. However, as appropriate measures were not in place at the time of the
inspection phase of the inquiry, the DPC finds that the Council infringed Article 24 of
the GDPR, interpreted in light of Article 24(2) of the GDPR and section 75(1) of the
2018 Act, interpreted in light of section 75(3) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.139The DPC finds that the Council infringed Article 24 of the GDPR, interpreted in light
of Article 24(2) of the GDPR and section 75(1) of the 2018 Act, interpreted in light
of section 75(3) of the 2018 Act, by failing to have appropriate technical and
organisational measures in place for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the
GDPR and the 2018 Act, respectively.

ii) Records of Processing Activities
Regime: LED and GDPR
Inquiry Report Issue: 10

7.140 A data controller is obliged to maintain records of processing activities for which it
is responsible. This is a requirement under Article 30 of the GDPR and separately
under section 81 of the Data Protection Act 2018 in respect of law enforcement
activities. The data controller is obliged to cooperate with the supervisory authority
and to make those records available to it on request.

7.1410n the inspection date of 1 April 2019, Sligo County Council was unable to produce
records of processing activities under its GDPR functions or under its law
enforcement functions. The Council confirmed that no such records had been
created.

42

7.142The DPC notes the Council’s submission that operational Council CCTV camera
locations have been digitally mapped and that an application is being developed to
capture the location of all Council CCTV monitors. The DPC also notes the Council’s
submission that paper logs are being maintained and that the Council is investigating
the development of digital logs. However, as appropriate measures were not in place
at the time of the inspection stage of the inquiry, the DPC finds that Council infringed
Article 30 of the GDPR and section 81 of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.143 The DPC finds that the Council infringed Article 30 of the GDPR and section 81 of
the 2018 Act by failing to create and maintain a record of processing activities with
respect to each category of data processing activity undertaken by the Council.

h) Data minimisation and data protection by design and default

i) Focus of CCTV cameras on private areas
Regime: LED
Inquiry Report Issue: 12

7.1440n 1 April 2019, the Inquiry Team carried out a physical inspection at the CCTV
control room which is located in a County Council property in Cranmore. The feeds
from sixteen CCTV cameras appeared on the monitoring screen in this Control Room.
The sixteen CCTV cameras comprised fourteen that were authorised by the Garda
Commissioner under section 38(3)(c) of the 2005 Act, in authorisations granted in
2007 and 2018, as well as two cameras at Doorly Park and at Martin Savage Terrace
(referred to in Issue No. 11 above). The Inquiry Team examined the live views from
the CCTV cameras that appeared on the monitoring screen.

a. From examining these live views it was apparent that some of the pan, tilt and
zoom cameras did not automatically return to a pre-set position after the Council
official had carried out monitoring activity at the monitoring screen. As a result,
on the day of the inspection it was noted that some cameras had not been
redirected to their original positions but instead they were left to focus in some
instances directly on the front of houses, front gardens, front doors and bedroom
windows, There were no privacy masking solutions - such as the blurring or
blocking out of images - in operation when the cameras focused on these houses
and therefore residents or members of the public in the area would not enjoy the
level of privacy they would expect in this regard.

b. Apart from the aforementioned camera re-positioning issue, the Inquiry Team
also noted that some CCTV cameras ordinarily focused in some instances into
front gardens, back gardens and bedroom windows. One camera focused on a
roadway with a clear view of a playground to the left. No privacy masking

43

solutions were used on the CCTV system. It was clear to the Inquiry Team,
therefore, that in some instances CCTV cameras were focused on private spaces
or spaces where members of the public would have an expectation of privacy and
that insufficient measures had been taken to preserve the privacy of those spaces
by means such as privacy masking.

7.145Data processing under the LED regime must comply with the principle of data
minimisation. This principle is reflected in section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act, which
requires that “data shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed.”

7.146The DPC notes the Council’s submission that it is in the process of implementing
technical measures at the CCTV Control Room in Cranmore. However, as appropriate
measures were not in place at the time of the inspection phase of the inquiry, the
DPC finds that the Council infringed section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.147 The DPC finds that at the time of the inspection, the Council failed to comply with
section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act in capturing excessive data with the
aforementioned CCTV cameras.

i) Data Retention

i) Retention of personal data collected via CCTV camera at the Supermacs Site
Regime: LED
inquiry Report Issue: 5

7.148The Council had informed the Inquiry Team that footage recorded via the CCTV
cameras operated by the Council is retained for 30 days. On examining the CCTV
recording equipment at the Supermacs Site, the Inquiry Team found that footage
dating back to October 2018 (a period of approximately six months) remained
accessible on the system.

7.149The principle of storage limitation is set out at section 71(1)(e) of the 2018 Act, which
provides that personal data shall be kept in a form that permits the identification of
a data subject for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the data are
processed. The DPC is of the view that the Council infringed this requirement by
retaining CCTV footage for 6 months after it was recorded via the CCTV camera at
the Supermacs Site.

7.150The DPC notes the Council’s submission that it notes the DPC’s intention to order the
deletion of data retained for longer than 30 days and that staff training will include
retention periods. However, as this was not the case at the time of the inspection

44

phase of the inquiry, the DPC finds that the Council infringed its obligations under
section 71(1)(e) of the 2018 Act.

Findings

7.151The DPC finds that the Council infringed its obligations under section 71(1)(e) of the
2018 Act in respect of the retention of personal data for longer than is necessary
for purposes for which that data are processed via the CCTV cameras at the
Supermacs Site.

ii) Retention of personal data collected via CCTV camera at the Sligo Harbour
Regime: GDPR
Inquiry Report Issue: 7

7.152The Inquiry Team was verbally informed that in line with the Council's draft CCTV
policy, footage recorded via the CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour was retained for 30
days. Searches conducted during the inspection revealed that footage dating back to
25 February 2019 (a period of 42 days) remained accessible on the system.

7.153The principle of storage limitation is set out at Article 5(1)(e) of the GDPR, which
provides that personal data shall be kept in a form that permits the identification of
the data subject for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the data
are processed. Therefore, the DPC is of the view that the Council infringed this
requirement by retaining CCTV footage for this period without demonstrating a
compelling need for same.

7.154The DPC notes the Council’s submission that it notes the DPC’s intention to order the
deletion of data retained for longer than 30 days and that staff training will include
retention periods. However, as this was not the case at the time of the audit, the DPC
finds that the Council infringed its obligations under Article 5(1)(e) of the GDPR.
Findings

7.155The DPC finds that the Council infringed its obligations under Article 5(1)(e) of the
GDPR in respect of the retention of personal data for longer than is necessary for
purposes for which that data are processed via the CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour.

8. Decision on Corrective Powers

8.1 The DPC has set out above, pursuant to sections 111(1)(a) and 124(1)(a) of the 2018
Act, its decision to the effect that the Council has infringed the Articles of the GDPR
and sections of the Data Protection Act 20018 listed in the following table.

Provision
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act

45


Unlawfully processing personal data via CCTV cameras at nine bottle
bank facilities by the Environment Section of the Council;

Unlawfully engaging in covert surveillance at the nine bottle bank
facilities under the control of the Environment Department ;

Unlawfully operating an ANPR camera at Ballisodare Community
Centre;

Unlawfully operating two cameras in the Caltragh Estate;
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these sections by:

Ss. 75(1) and
75(3) of the 2018
Act

Failing to implement a data protection policy in respect of when
covert surveillance may be used by the Council.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this section by:

S. 84 of the 2018
Act

Failing to carry out a data protection impact assessment in advance
of using covert surveillance.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these sections by:

Ss. 71(1)(c) and
76(2) of the 2018
Act

Engaging in excessive collection of personal data by use of an ANPR
camera in a manner which was not necessary to perform its function
at Ballisodare Community Centre.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed Article 5(1)(a) GDPR by:

Article 5(1)(a)
GDPR

Not having a lawful basis to process personal data via CCTV Cameras
at Sligo Harbour for the purpose of monitoring the operation of Sligo
Harbour.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these Articles by:

Articles 13(1) and
13(3) GDPR

Failing to erect signage or by providing the necessary information to
data subjects in respect of the processing of personal data collected
via these CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these sections by:

Sections 71(1)(a)
and 90(1)

Failing to erect appropriately worded and located signage or by
providing the necessary information to data subjects in respect of the
processing of personal data collected via these CCTV cameras at
Ballisodare Community Centre for purposes related to law
enforcement.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these sections by:

Sections 71(1)(a)
and 90(1) of the
2018 Act

Failing to erect appropriately worded and located signage or by
providing the necessary information to data subjects in respect of the
processing of personal data collected via these CCTV cameras at

Forthill Estate for purposes related to law enforcement.

46

Section 79 ofthe | The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act

Failing to implement an agreement in writing with An Garda Siochana
detailing the issues required by that section in respect of cameras
installed by the Council which were authorised under section 38(3)(c)
of the 2005 Act.
Articles 5(1)(f) The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these Articles by:
and 32(1) GDPR

Failing to ensure the appropriate security of the CCTV monitoring
screens at Sligo Harbour.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these sections by:

Sections 71(1)(f)
and 72 2018

Failing to ensure the appropriate security of the CCTV monitoring
screens at Cranmore CCTV Room.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these Articles by:

Articles 24(1) and
32(1) GDPR

Failing to maintain a data log that recorded user specific accesses of
the CCTV camera views and recorded footage from Sligo Harbour
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this section by:

Section 72(2) of
the 2018 Act

Failing to train staff to log accesses on the CCTV system at Cranmore
CCTV Control Room.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these Articles by:

Articles 5(1)(c)
and 25 of the
GDPR

Failing to ensure that the processing of personal data via CCTV

cameras at Sligo Harbour is not excessive to the purposes for which
personal data are processed by the Council in these circumstances.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these sections by:

Sections 71(1)(f),
72(1) and 78 of
the 2018 Act

Failing to implement appropriate technical or organisational security
measures to protect against unauthorised or unlawful processing and
against accidental loss, destruction or damage of personal data
collected via the camera feeds from the CCTV systems at Ballisodare
Community Centre, Lidl Site, Market Yard Site and Supermacs Site.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these sections by:

Sections 75(1)
and 82(2) of the
2018 Act

Failing to maintain a data log that recorded the identity of any
individual who consulted personal data contained in the CCTV camera
views and recorded footage from Ballisodare Community Centre, Lidl
Site, Market Yard Site and Supermacs Site.
The DPC finds that the Council has infringed these sections by:

Sections 71(1)(c),
71(10) and 76(2)
of the 2018 Act

Failing to ensure that its processing of personal data via CCTV
cameras at the relevant bottle bank facilities is not excessive to its
purpose of preventing and detecting illegal dumping.

Section 84 of the | The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this section by:
2018 Act

47


Article 24 of the
GDPR interpreted
in light of Article
24(2) of the GDPR
and Section 75(1)

Failing to carry out a data protection impact assessment for the
deployment of CCTV and ANPR cameras at the bottle bank facilities at
Ballisodare Community Centre.

The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this Article and section by:

Failing to have appropriate technical and organisational measures in
place for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the GDPR and the
2018 Act, respectively.

of the 2018 Act,
interpreted in
light of Section
75(3) of the 2018
Act,

Article 30 of the
GDPR and Section
81 of the 2018
Act

The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this Article and section by:

Failing to create and maintain a record of processing activities with

respect to each category of data processing activity undertaken by

the Council.

Section 71(1)(c) The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this section by:

of the 2018 Act.
Failing to comply with the principle of data minimisation set out in
section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act.

Section 71(1)(e) | The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this section by:

of the 2018 Act
The retention of personal data for longer than is necessary for
purposes for which that data are processed via the CCTV cameras at
the Supermacs Site.

Article 5(1)(e) of || The DPC finds that the Council has infringed this Article by:

the GDPR

The retention of personal data for longer than is necessary for which

that data are processed via the CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour.

8.2 Under sections 111(2) and 124(2) of the 2018 Act, where the DPC makes a decision
(under sections 111(1)(a) and 124(1)(a)), it must, in addition, make a decision as to
whether a corrective power should be exercised in respect of the controller or
processor concerned and, if so, the corrective power to be exercised. The remaining
question for determination in this Decision is whether or not any of those
infringements merit the exercise of any of the corrective powers set out in Article
58(2) GDPR and Section 127(1) of the 2018 Act and, if so, which corrective powers.

8.3 Article 58(2) GDPR sets out the corrective powers that supervisory authorities may
exercise in respect of non-compliance by a controller or processor. In deciding

whether to exercise those powers, Recital 129 provides guidance as follows:

..each measure should be appropriate, necessary and proportionate in
view of ensuring compliance with this Regulation, taking into account
the circumstances of each individual case...

48

8.4 The applicable corrective powers in relation to any of the infringements falling under
the LED/Part 5 of the 2018 Act are those set out at Section 127(1) of the 2018 Act.

8.5 Having carefully considered the infringements identified in this Decision, the DPC has
decided to exercise certain corrective powers in accordance with sections 115 and
127 of the 2018 Act and Article 58(2) GDPR. In summary, the corrective powers that
the DPC has decided are appropriate to address the infringements in the particular
circumstances are:

|. Orders to the Council pursuant to Article 58(2)(d) GDPR and section
127(1)(d) of the 2018 Act to bring its processing operations into
compliance with GDPR in the manner specified below;

ll. | Orders to the Council pursuant to Article 58(2)(f) GDPR and section
127(1)(f) imposing a temporary ban on processing operations in the
manner specified below;

lll. A reprimand to the Council pursuant to section 127(1)(b) of the
2018 Act in respect of its infringement of section 79 of the 2018 Act
and

IV. Administrative fines for the infringements of 5(1)(c), 5(1)(e), 5(1)(F),
25, 30 and 32(1) GDPR.

8.6 Set out below are further details in respect of each of the corrective powers that the
DPC has chosen to exercise and the reasons why it has decided to exercise them. The
analysis in respect of whether an administrative fine is merited in light of the
Council's infringements of the GDPR will be detailed subsequently in this Decision.

9. Orders to Bring Processing into Compliance and Temporary Ban on Processing
9.1 Article 58(2)(d) GDPR provides that a supervisory authority shall have the power

to order the controller or processor to bring processing operations into
compliance with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
specified manner and within a specified period

9.2 Section 127(1)(d) of the 2018 Act provides that the Commission may

order the controller or processor to bring processing into compliance with a
relevant provision, in a specified manner and within a specified period

9.3 In circumstances where it has found that the processing at issue was not in
compliance with the GDPR and the 2018 Act, the DPC considers it is appropriate to
make orders pursuant to Article 58(2)(d) GDPR and Section 127(1)(d) of the 2018 Act.
Therefore, the DPC orders the Council to bring the relevant processing (as further
detailed below) into compliance with the GDPR and 2018 Act through implementing
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security

49

appropriate to the risks. The Council must perform the necessary risk assessment to
inform the measures that it must implement.

9.4 Article 58(2)(f) GDPR and Section 127(1)(f) of the 2018 Act provide that a supervisory
authority shall have the power to “impose a temporary or definitive limitation
including a ban on processing.”

9.5 In light of the findings herein that the Council does not have a lawful basis to process
certain personal data with the use surveillance technologies, including CCTV cameras,
ANPR cameras, and covert cameras, the DPC imposes a temporary ban on the
processing (as further detailed below).

9.6 It is the DPC’s view that these orders are appropriate, necessary and proportionate
in view of ensuring compliance with the GDPR and 2018 Act. In this regard, the DPC
acknowledges the Council's on-going remedial actions, as outlined in submissions

throughout the Inquiry.

9.7 The orders that the DPC imposes are set out in the table below.

50

i. Lawful Bases for the Processing

nef _Aeton___|____tme Seale _

Environment Section CCTV Cameras at Bottle The Council is required to
Banks used for law enforcement purposes confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 90 days of
receiving the final Decision
that the cameras are switched
off, unless another legal basis
for the processing can be
pinpointed in the meantime.

Section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act

The DPC finds no lawful basis for the Council’s
processing of personal data by means of CCTV
cameras at sites of bottle banks. The DPC
imposes a temporary ban on the Council's use
of CCTV at these locations. This processing must
not resume, unless, and until, there is a basis for
it in EU or Member State Law.

Use of Covert Cameras

The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 90 days of
receiving the final Decision
that the cameras are switched
off, unless another legal basis
for the processing can be
pinpointed in the meantime.

Section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act

The DPC finds that there is no lawful basis for
the Council's use of covert camera surveillance.
The DPC imposes a temporary ban on the
Council’s use of covert camera surveillance. This
processing must not resume, unless, and until,
there is a basis for it in EU or Member State
Law.

Use of ANPR Camera to Detect Illegal Dumping The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 90 days of
receiving the final Decision
that the camera is switched
off, unless another legal basis
for the processing can be

pinpointed in the meantime.

Section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act

The DPC finds that there is no lawful basis for
the Council’s use of an ANPR camera at
Ballisodare Community Centre. The DPC

imposes a temporary ban on the Council’s use

of the ANPR camera. This processing must not
resume, unless, and until, there is a basis for it
in EU or Member State Law.

Housing Department CCTV Cameras

The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 90 days of
receiving the final Decision
that the cameras are switched
off, unless another legal basis
for the processing can be
pinpointed in the meantime.

Section 71(1)(a) of the 2018 Act

The DPC finds that there is no lawful basis for
the Council’s processing of personal data by
means of CCTV cameras at the Caltragh Estate.
The DPC imposes a temporary ban on the

51

Council's use of CCTV at this location. This
processing must not resume, unless, and until,
there is a basis for it in EU or Member State
Law.

Sligo Harbour CCTV Cameras The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Article 5(1)(a) GDPR Commission within 90 days of

receiving the final Decision

The DPC finds that there is no lawful basis for | that the cameras are switched

the Council’s processing of personal data by off, unless another legal basis
means of CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour. The for the processing can be
DPC imposes a temporary ban on the Council’s | pinpointed in the meantime.

use of CCTV at this location. This processing

must not resume, unless, and until, there is a

basis for it in EU or Member State Law.

ii. Transparency

(No. | Action Time Seale

Sligo Harbour CCTV Cameras If the Council identifies an
appropriate legal basis and
intends to recommence
processing personal data with
CCTV cameras at Sligo
Harbour, prior to commencing
processing this Order must be
complied with.

Articles 13(1) and 13(3) GDPR

The DPC orders the Council to bring its
processing by means of CCTV cameras into
compliance with Article 13 of the GDPR by

ensuring that all data subjects are provided with
all the information required by Articles 13(1)
and 13(3) of the GDPR. This must be achieved by
installing signage in the vicinity of where the
Sligo Harbour CCTV cameras are operating
which gives data subjects advanced notice of
the processing, the purposes of the processing
and the identity of the controller.
Ballisodare Community Centre

If the Council identifies an
appropriate legal basis and
intends to recommence
processing personal data with
CCTV cameras at Ballisodare
Community Centre, prior to
commencing processing this
Order must be complied with

Sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to bring its
processing by means of CCTV cameras (including
the ANPR camera) into compliance with sections
71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act by ensuring
that all data subjects are provided with all the

information required by section 90(2) of the
2018 Act. This must be achieved by installing
signage in the vicinity of where the Ballisodare

52

Community cameras are operating which gives
data subjects notice of the processing, the
purposes of the processing and the identity of
the controller.

Forthill Estate The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of the 2018 Act Commission within 120 days
of receiving the final Decision
The DPC orders the Council to bring its that this Order has been
processing by means of CCTV cameras into implemented.
compliance with sections 71(1)(a) and 90(1) of
the 2018 Act by ensuring that all data subjects
are provided with all the information required
by section 90(2) of the 2018 Act. This must be
achieved by installing signage in the vicinity of
where the Forthill Estate cameras are operating
which gives data subjects notice of the
processing, the purposes of the processing and
the identity of the controller.

iii. Technical and organisational measures

[No [Action = | Time Scale

Use of Covert Cameras If the Council identifies an
appropriate legal basis and
intends to recommence
processing of personal data
with covert cameras, prior to
commencing processing these
orders must be complied with.

Sections 75(1), 75(3) and 84 of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to bring its
processing into compliance with the 2018 Act by
requiring the Council to implement a Data
Protecting Policy which describes the Council’s
policy on covert cameras.

The DPC orders the Council to bring its
processing into compliance with the 2018 Act by
conducting a data protection impact assessment
in advance of recommencing processing of
personal data by covert CCTV cameras.
Security Measures for CCTV at Sligo Harbour

lf the Council identifies an
appropriate legal basis and
intends to recommence
processing personal data with
CCTV cameras at Sligo
Harbour, prior to commencing

Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR

The DPC orders the Council to bring its
processing operations into compliance with the

53

vi

12

13

2018 Act by implementing security measures so

as to restrict access to the CCTV cameras to
authorised persons only.
Security Measures for CCTV at Cranmore CCTV
Control Room

processing this Order must be
complied with.

The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 120 days
of receiving the final Decision
that this Order has been
implemented.

Sections 71(1)(f) and 72 of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to bring its
processing operations into compliance with the
2018 Act by installing signs prohibiting staff
from using their phones or other devices to take
pictures or video or audio recordings of the
CCTV monitoring screens in the monitoring
centre to ensure compliance with section
71(1)(f) of the 2018 Act.
Collection of personal data for other purposes
at Sligo Harbour

If the Council identifies an
appropriate legal basis and
intends to recommence
processing personal data with
CCTV cameras at Sligo
Harbour, prior to commencing
processing this Order must be
complied with.

Articles 5(1)(c) and 25 GDPR

The DPC orders the Council to integrate
appropriate technical and organisational
measures as required by Article 25 GDPR in
respect of the CCTV cameras which were subject
to surveillance at Sligo Harbour. These technical
and organisational measures could include
privacy masking.
Accessibility of Monitoring Screens at
Ballisodare Community Centre, Lidl Site, Market

Yard Site, and Supermacs Site

In respect of CCTV cameras,
for which this decision has
found the Council lacks a
lawful basis, if the Council
identifies an appropriate legal
basis and intends to
recommence processing
personal data at the relevant
sites, prior to recommencing
processing this Order must be
complied with.

Sections 71(1)(f), 72(1) and 78 of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to implement
measures at these locations to ensure only
authorised persons have access to the CCTV
cameras.

In respect of CCTV cameras
for which the Council has a
valid lawful basis the Council
is required to implement this
Order within 120 days of
receiving the Final Decision at
the relevant sites.

54

If the Council identifies an
appropriate legal basis and
intends to recommence
processing personal data with
CCTV cameras at these
locations, prior to
commencing processing this
Order must be complied with.

Collection of personal data for other purposes
at Ballisodare Community Centre, Lidl Site,
Market Yard Site and Supermacs Site

Sections 71(1)(c), 71(10) and 76(2) of the 2018
Act

The DPC orders the Council to implement
technical and security measures to ensure only
the bottle bank facilities are captured by the
CCTV cameras. Privacy masking technology
could be a means of implementing this Order.
Focus of CCTV Cameras on Private Areas from
CCTV Control Room in Cranmore

The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 120 days
of receiving the final Decision
that this Order has been
implemented.

Section 71(1)(c) of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to integrate
appropriate technical and organisational
measures as required by section 76 of the 2018
Act in respect of the CCTV cameras which were
subject to surveillance at Cranmore Control
Room. These technical and organisational
measures could include privacy masking and/or
preventing manual control of the CCTV cameras
by operators of the monitoring centres,

lf the Council identifies an
appropriate legal basis and
intends to recommence
processing personal data with
the CCTV cameras at Sligo
Harbour, prior to commencing
processing this Order must be
complied with.

Access Logs at Sligo Harbour

Articles 24(1) and 32(1) GDPR

The DPC orders the Council to bring its
processing into compliance with the GDPR by
requiring the controller to ensure persons who
access personal data leave their identity and
purpose for which they accessed the data in the
log book.

The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 120 days
of receiving the final Decision
that this Order has been
implemented.

Access Logs at Cranmore CCTV Control Room

Sections 72(2) of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to implement
training measures for the relevant staff to log

55

accesses on the CCTV system at Cranmore CCTV
Control Room

Access Logs for CCTV Systems at Ballisodare lf the Council identifies an
Community Centre, Lidl Site, Market Yard Site appropriate legal basis and
and Supermacs Site intends to recommence

processing personal data with
Sections 75(1) and 82(2) of the 2018 Act the CCTV cameras at these
locations, prior to
The DPC orders the Council to maintain a data commencing processing this
log of persons who have consulted the CCTV Order must be complied with.
cameras at the prescribed locations.

iv. Accountability

Wo. | Action _______ Time Scale

Data Protection Impact Assessments CCTV and If the Council identifies an
ANPR cameras at Ballisodare Community Centre appropriate legal basis and
intends to recommence
processing personal data with
the CCTV cameras at these
locations, prior to
commencing processing this
Order must be complied with.
The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 120 days
of receiving the final Decision
that this Order has been
implemented.

Section 84 of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to conduct a data
protection impact assessment in respect of use
of surveillance at this location.
Data Protection Policy on CCTV

Article 24 GDPR and Section 75 of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to implement a
CCTV policy governing its use of surveillance
technolog
Records of Processing Activities

The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 120 days
of receiving the final Decision
that this Order has been
implemented.

Article 30 GDPR and Section 81 of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to implement of
record of its surveillance processing operations
as required under Article 30 GDPR and Section
81 of the 2018 Act
CCTV Live Feeds to Sligo Garda Station

Section 79 of the 2018 Act

The DPC notes the Council’s submission on 27
September 2019 to the Authorised Officers that
the live feeds to Sligo Garda Station were being
removed. However, in circumstances where

section 38 of the 2005 Act obliges An Garda

56

Siochana to act as a joint controller, an
agreement in writing between the Council and
An Garda Siochana that satisfies the provisions
of section 79 of the 2018 Act is required

irrespective of the availability of the live feed.
Therefore, the DPC issues a reprimand to the
Council on the basis of the infringement of
section 79,

v. Data Retention

Ne. | __Aetion __| ___lime Seale ___

Retention of Personal Data collected via CCTV The Council is required to
cameras at the Supermacs Site confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 120 days
of receiving the final Decision
that this Order has been
implemented.

Section 71(1)(e) of the 2018 Act

The DPC orders the Council to delete personal
data that was retained for a longer period than
30 days.

The Council is required to
confirm to the Data Protection
Commission within 120 days
of receiving the final Decision
that this Order has been
implemented.

Retention of personal data collected via CCTV
camera at Sligo Harbour

Article 5(1)(e) of the GDPR

The DPC orders the Council to delete personal
data that was retained for a longer period than
30 days.

9.8 The DPC’s decision to impose the orders is made to ensure that full effect is given to
the Council’s obligations under the GDPR and 2018 Act. The DPC considers that these
orders are appropriate, necessary and proportionate in view of ensuring compliance
with the GDPR and 2018 Act.

9.9 The DPC considers that these orders are necessary to ensure that full effect is given
to the Council’s obligations in relation to the infringements outlined above.

9.10 The substance of these orders is the only way in which the defects pointed out in this
Decision can be rectified, which is essential to the protection of the rights of data
subjects. It is on this basis that the DPC takes the view that this power should be
imposed.

Ts

9.11 Having regard to the non-compliance identified in this Decision, the DPC considers
such orders are proportionate and are the minimum required to guarantee
compliance in the future. The DPC is satisfied that the orders are necessary and
proportionate.

10. Decision regarding the imposition of an Administrative Fine

10.1 Article 58(2)(i) of the GDPR provides that a supervisory authority shall have the
power:

to impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83, in addition to, or
instead of measures referred to in this paragraph, depending on the
circumstances of each individual case.

10.2 The purpose of administrative fines is to strengthen the enforcement of the rules of
the GDPR. Fines sanction non-compliance and seek to re-establish compliance with
the GDPR.

10.3 The DPC is empowered solely to impose administrative fines in respect of
infringements of the GDPR as opposed to infringements of the Law Enforcement
Directive and related provisions of the Data Protection Act 2018. Accordingly, only
the infringements of the GDPR in relation to Sligo Harbour are considered in this
section.

10.4 As the DPC has identified infringements of the GDPR and 2018 Act above, the DPC
will decide whether to impose administrative fines in respect of the infringements of
the GDPR. In conducting this assessment, the DPC has had regard to Article 83 GDPR,
which sets out ‘General conditions for imposing administrative fines.’ The DPC has
also had regard to EDPB guidelines which are designed to ensure a harmonised
approach to fining. These sets of guidelines include the EDPB’s Guidelines on the
calculation of administrative fines (the EDPB Fining Guidelines),”? and the Article 29
Working Party's Guidelines on the application and setting of administrative fines (the
A29WP Fining Guidelines),*° which have been endorsed by the EDPB.

10.5 Asa first step, the DPC will consider whether to impose a fine by applying the criteria
set out in Article 83(2) GDPR. If the outcome of the assessment is that a fine should
be imposed, then the DPC will proceed to calculate the amount, by reference to the
criteria in Article 83(2) GDPR and by considering the other factors set out in Articles

*2 Guidelines 04/2022 on the calculation of administrative fines under the GDPR, version 2.1, adopted on 24
May 2023.
3° WP253

58

83(1)-(9) that apply in this case. In particular, Article 83(1) GDPR requires fines to be
effective, proportionate and dissuasive. These principles will inform the calculation
of any fine that is imposed in this Decision.

a) Whether to impose an administrative fine

10.6 Article 83(2) GDPR states,

10.7

Administrative fines shall, depending on the circumstances of each individual
case, be imposed in addition to, or instead of, measures referred to in points
(a) to (h) and (j) of Article 58(2). When deciding whether to impose an
administrative fine and deciding on the amount of the administrative fine in
each individual case due regard shall be given to the following...

Article 83(2) goes on to list 11 criteria from (a) to (k) to be taken into account when
deciding whether to impose an administrative fine. Those provisions are set out
below where they are also applied to the infringements identified herein.

i) Article 83(2)(a) GDPR: the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement taking into
account the nature scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as the number of
data subjects affected and the level of damage suffered by them;

10.8

10.9

Article 83(2)(a) requires consideration of the identified criterion by reference to ‘the
infringement’ as well as ‘the processing concerned.’ The phrase ‘the processing
concerned’ in this Article 83(2) analysis should be understood as meaning all of the
processing operations undertaken by the Council in respect of the CCTV operation at
Sligo Harbour.

Considering next the meaning of ‘infringement’, it is clear from Articles 83(3)-(5), that
‘infringement’ means an infringement of a provision of the GDPR. Above, the Council
was found to have infringed Articles 5(1)(a), 5(1)(c), 5(1)(e), 5(1)(f), 25, 30 and 32(1)
GDPR. Thus, ‘the infringement’, for the purpose of the DPC’s assessment of the
Article 83(2) criteria, should be understood (depending on the context in which the
term is used) as meaning an infringement of Articles 5(1)(a), 5(1)(c), 5(1)(e), 5(1)(f),
25, 30 and 32(1) GDPR. While each is an individual ‘infringement’ of the relevant
provision, they all concern the processing concerned and, by reason of their common
nature and purpose, are likely to generate the same, or similar, outcomes in the
context of some of the Article 83(2) assessment criteria. Accordingly, and for ease of
review, the DPC will assess all of these infringements simultaneously, by reference
to the collective term ‘infringements’ unless otherwise indicated.

59

10.10As all findings of infringement of 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR concern processing relating
to CCTV operations at Sligo Harbour, the DPC will consider the Article 83 GDPR
criteria for all of the identified wrongdoing in respect of Article 5(1)(f) and 32(1)
jointly.

10.11As all of the infringements relate to the processing concerned, the considerations
and assessments set out below, save where otherwise indicated, should be
understood as being assessments of the individual Article 83(2) criteria in the context
of the infringements generally.

Taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as
the number of data subjects affected and the level of damage suffered by them

10.12 This section will consider the nature, scope or purpose of the processing concerned,
before considering the number of data subjects affected and the level of damage
suffered by them.

10.13 The nature of the processing can include:

the context in which the processing is functionally based (e.g. business activity,
non-profit, political party, etc.) and all the characteristics of the processing.’*”

10.14Circumstances that can lead to supervisory authorities attributing more weight to
this factor include

where the purpose is to monitor, evaluate personal aspects or to take
decisions or measures with negative effects for data subjects, where there is a
clear imbalance between the controller and data subjects or where the
processing involves children or other vulnerable data subjects.°?

10.15The nature of the processing relating to the infringements identified herein is the
monitoring of the Harbour area via CCTV cameras to ensure its effective
management. The DPC attaches greater weight due to the surveillance of data
subjects and as the CCTV cameras also captured persons and vehicles that were not
directly proximate to the Harbour area.

10.16 The scope of the processing is assessed

31 EDPB Fining Guidelines [53.b.i].
2 Ibid.

60

with reference to the local, national or cross-border scope of the processing
carried out and the relationship between this information and the actual
extent of the processing in terms of the allocation of resources by the data
controller... The larger the scope of the processing, the more weight the
supervisory authority may attribute to this factor.**

10.17The scope of the processing relating to the infringements identified herein is
moderate being confined to the Council’s administration of a local area.

10.18 The purpose of the processing

will lead the supervisory authority to attribute more weight to this factor. The
supervisory authority may also consider whether the processing of personal
data falls within the so-called core activities of the controller. The more central
the processing is to the controller's or processor’s core activities, the more
severe irregularities in this processing will be. The supervisory authority may
attribute more weight to this factor in these circumstances. There may be
circumstances though, in which the processing of personal data is further
removed from the core activities of the controller or processor, but
significantly impacts the evaluation nonetheless (this is the case, for example,
of processing concerning personal data of workers where the infringement
significantly affects those workers’ dignity).*4

10.19The purpose of the processing relating to the infringements identified herein is the
management of Sligo Harbour. The purpose of the processing was determined by the
Council in order to ensure the security and effective management of the Harbour
and, in particular, to ensure the public did not approach the ships or the cargo
therein.

10.20In relation to the number of data subjects, the EDPB Fining Guidelines state,

The higher the number of data subjects involved, the more weight the
supervisory authority may attribute to this factor. In many cases, it may also
be considered that the infringement takes on ‘systemic’ connotations and can
therefore affect, even at different times, additional data subjects who have not
submitted complaints or reports to the supervisory authority. The supervisory
authority may, depending on the circumstances of the case, consider the ratio
between the number of data subjects affected and the total number of data

33 EDPB Fining Guidelines, [53].
+ EDPB Fining Guidelines, [53].

61

subjects in that context (e.g. the number of citizens, customers or employees)
in order to assess whether the infringement is of a systemic nature.2°

10.21The number of data subjects affected by the infringements identified cannot be
quantified. 15 CCTV cameras were installed at Sligo Harbour, some of which captured
images of vehicles and persons beyond the Harbour, which would indicate that a
sizeable number of data subjects may have been affected.

10.22 The level of damage is considered by reference to any harm suffered by data subjects
or the ‘extent to which the conduct may affect individual rights and freedoms.’ The
EDPB Fining Guidelines note:

The reference to the ‘level’ of damage suffered, therefore, is intended to draw
the attention of the supervisory authorities to the damage suffered, or likely
to have been suffered as a further, separate parameter with respect to the
number of data subjects involved (for example, in cases where the number of
individuals affected by the unlawful processing is high but the damage suffered
by them is marginal). Following Recital 75 GDPR, the level of damage suffered
refers to physical, material or non-material damage. The assessment of the
damage, in any case, be limited [sic] to what is functionally necessary to
achieve correct evaluation of the level of seriousness of the infringement as
indicated in paragraph 60 below, without overlapping with the activities of
judicial authorities as tasked with ascertaining the different forms of individual
harm.7®

10,23In this case, the possible damage that can result is of a moderate nature. This
includes a heightened risk of unauthorised access to data subjects’ personal data
occurring. The storage of personal data when no longer necessary for their purpose
increases the potential damage to data subjects in the event of a data breach and
failure to maintain a data log prevents the supervisory authority and the controller
itself from ascertaining if illicit access to personal data has occurred.

The nature of the infringements
10.24 The EDPB Fining Guidelines state that the nature of the infringement is ‘assessed by

the concrete circumstances of the case.’ In this assessment, the supervisory
authority may:

35 EDPB Fining Guidelines [53.b.iv].
3€ EDPB Fining Guidelines [53.b.v].

62

review the interest that the infringed provision seeks to protect and the place
of this provision in the data protection framework. In addition, the supervisory
authority may consider the degree to which the infringement prohibited the
effective application of the provision and the fulfilment of the objective it
sought to protect.?’

10.25In line with the text of the GDPR, the nature, gravity and duration of the
infringements are all assessed by taking into account the nature, scope or purpose
of the processing concerned as well as the number of data subjects affected and the
level of damage suffered by them.*®

10.26The infringement of Article 13 GDPR concerned the Council’s failure to provide
fundamental information to the data subjects regarding the CCTV surveillance
including the:

-identity and contact details of the controller;*°
-contact details of the data protection officer; and
-legal basis for the processing.”

10.27 The nature of the infringements regarding Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR related to
the Council's failure to implement adequate security measures to prevent
unauthorised access to the recording equipment at the Security Office at Sligo
Harbour.

10.28The nature of the infringements of Articles 5(1)(c) and 25 GDPR concerns the failure
by the Council to implement measures to ensure the CCTV cameras in Sligo Harbour
only captured data that was relevant to their purposes. It emerged during the course
of the investigation that the CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour captured images of
people and vehicles beyond the Sligo Harbour area which was a violation of the data
minimisation principle.

10.29The infringement of Article 30 GDPR relates to an accountability obligation. The
Council failed to maintain records of processing activities under its GDPR functions.

10.30The infringements of Article 5(1)(f) and 32 GDPR concerns a failure to keep access
logs detailing the identity of the person who downloaded footage from the CCTV
cameras at the Security Office in Sligo Harbour and when such downloading
occurred.

37 EDPB Fining Guidelines, [53.a]
38 Article 83(2)(a).

39 GDPR, Article 13(1)(a).

4” GDPR, Article 13(1)(b)

41 GDPR, Article 13(1)(c).

63

10.31 The infringement of Article 5(1)(e) GDPR concerns the Council's retention of personal
data for longer than was necessary for purposes for which those data were processed
via the CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour.

The gravity of the infringements

10.32The infringement of Article 13 GDPR in this case is of moderate gravity, The Council
has not provided information to data subjects, which would notify them that their
personal data would be processed by CCTV cameras in Sligo Harbour by the Council.
The Council also failed to meet the requirements on controllers to provide data
subjects with information which will permit them to exercise their rights under the
GDPR.

10.33The DPC considers the infringements of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR to be of a
moderate gravity. It was established that there was a lack of security controls in place
to restrict access to the recording systems or to the monitor in the Security Office.
The Council had no means of identifying who had accessed the system. The possible
damage that could result is a heightened risk of unauthorised access to data subjects’
personal data occurring. The Council's failure to maintain a data log prevents the
supervisory authority and the controller itself from ascertaining if illicit access has
occurred.

10.34The DPC considers the infringement of Article 30 GDPR to be of moderate gravity as
the CCTV cameras at Sligo Harbour are the only monitoring equipment falling within
the scope of the GDPR.

10.35 The DPC considers the infringement of Article 5(1)(e) GDPR to be moderate in nature.
The storage of personal data when no longer necessary for their purpose constitutes
an interference with data subjects’ rights and heightens potential damage to data
subjects in the event of a data breach.

The duration of the infringements
10.36In relation to the duration of an infringement, the EDPB Fining Guidelines state,

a supervisory authority may generally attribute more weight to an
infringement with longer duration. The longer the duration of the
infringement, the more weight the supervisory authority may attribute to this
factor.

10.37 The A29WP Fining Guidelines note that duration may be illustrative of:

a) wilful conduct on the data controller’s part, or
b) failure to take appropriate preventive measures, or
c) inability to put in place the required technical and organisational measures.

64

10,38The duration (as well as the nature and gravity of the infringements) is assessed
taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well
as the number of data subjects affected and the level of damage suffered by them.

10.39In this case, the duration of the infringements of the GDPR regarding the processing
commenced at the application of the GDPR on 25 May 2018. The infringements were
ongoing for the entirety of the temporal scope in circumstances where the Council
failed to implement appropriate measures required by those provisions for the
entirety of that time frame. Therefore, for the purposes of deciding whether to
impose an administrative fine, and for calculating the appropriate amount if
applicable, the DPC proceeds on the basis that the infringements of Articles 5(1)(c),
5(1)(e), 5(1)(f), 25, 30 and 32(1) GDPR lasted at least from 25 May 2018 at least until
the date of the inspection on 8 April 2019.

i. Assessment of Article 83(2)(a)

10.40Taking account of all of the factors assessed in this section, the DPC assesses the
infringements to be moderate in gravity and of a moderate duration. The Council’s
failure to erect suitable signage to comply with its Article 13 GDPR obligations meant
that data subjects would have been unaware of surveillance and unable to exercise
their rights. The Council’s failure to ensure that appropriate security safeguards were
in place and its failure to maintain a data log contributed to a higher risk of
unauthorised access to the personal data processed through the CCTV cameras at
the Harbour. Furthermore, the infringements were moderate in duration being from
the date of entry in force of the GDPR on 25 May 2018 until 8 April 2019. Taking
account of all of the factors assessed in this section, the DPC assesses the ongoing
infringements to have a moderate gravity and to be of a moderate nature.

ii. Article 83(2)(b) GDPR: the intentional or negligent character of the infringement;
10.41 The A29WP Fining Guidelines state,

in general, intent includes both knowledge and willfulness in relation to the
characteristics of an offence, whereas ‘unintentional’ means that there was no
intention to cause the infringement although the controller/processor
breached the duty of care which is required in the law.

10.42 The EDPB Fining Guidelines state,

The intentional or negligent character of the infringement (Article 83(2)(b)
GDPR) should be assessed taking into account the objective elements of
conduct gathered from the facts of the case. The EDPB highlighted that it is

65

generally admitted that intentional infringements, ‘demonstrating contempt
for the provisions of the law, are more severe than unintentional ones’. In
case of an intentional infringement, the supervisory authority is likely to
attribute more weight to this factor. Depending on the circumstances of the
case, the supervisory authority may also attach weight to the degree of
negligence. At best, negligence could be regarded as neutral.

10.43 In this case, the DPC finds that the infringements indicate negligence on the part of
the Council. The DPC considers that the infringement of Article 13 GDPR was of a
negligent character as the Council did not provide an explanation for its failure to
erect signage at the time of the inspection on 8 April 2019.

10.44The DPC considers that the Council was negligent in failing to implement security
measures pursuant to Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR when it ought to have been
aware of same. The Council was culpable in failing to ensure that persons accessing
the footage would be able to be identified at a subsequent point via access logs.

10.45The DPC considers that the Council was negligent in in infringing its obligations in
regard to Articles 5(1)(c) and 25 GDPR. A cursory examination of the range of view of
the cameras would have alerted the Council to the fact that the scope of the view
was excessive and that adequate security measures to counter this ought to have
been implemented.

10.46The DPC finds that the infringement of Article 30 GDPR was of a negligent nature.
The maintenance of a record is a fundamental accountability requirement under the
GDPR and the Council has failed to provide an explanation for why a record was not
maintained.

10.47 The DPC considers that the infringement of Article 5(1)(e) GDPR was an infringement
of negligent character as the Council should have been in a position to ensure
compliance with the data retention period specified in its own CCTV policy.

iii. Article 83(2)(c) GDPR: any action taken by the controller or processor to
mitigate the damage suffered by data subjects;
10,48 According to the A2Z9WP Fining Guidelines,
This provision acts as an assessment of the degree of responsibility of the

controller after the infringement has occurred. It may cover cases where the
controller/processor has clearly not taken a reckless/ negligent approach but

66

where they have done all they can to correct their actions when they became
aware of the infringement.**

10.49 Regarding the infringement of Article 13 GDPR, the DPC considers the fact that the
Council had erected a sign at Sligo Harbour, which adverted to the use of cameras as
a mitigating factor of low weight in relation to the infringement of Article 13 GDPR.
The DPC attributes it a low weight, as the Council was not designated as the
controller on the sign and due to the use of small font, it was difficult to read for
passers-by. Having regard to these actions for the purpose of Article 83(2)(c) GDPR,
the DPC is of the view that the actions provided limited mitigation of the damage to
data subjects.

10.50The DPC can identify no mitigating factors in respect of the other infringements.

iv. Article 83(2)(d) GDPR: the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor
taking into account technical and organisational measures implemented by them
pursuant to Articles 25 and 32;

10.51 The key question in relation to this provision is whether the Council ‘did what it could
be expected to do’ given the nature, the purposes or the size of the processing, seen
in light of the obligations imposed on it by the Regulation.*?

10.52As previously stated, the DPC considers that the Council was responsible for failing
to implement security measures pursuant to Article 32(1) GDPR when it ought to
have been aware of same. There was no restriction on staff bringing smartphones,
cameras or recording devices into the CCTV Control Room while on duty which gave
rise to a security vulnerability where images appearing on the monitoring screen
could easily be recorded and removed from the CCTV Control Room in an
unauthorised manner.

10.53 The DPC also considers that the Council was responsible in in infringing its obligations
in regard to Article 25 GDPR in respect of the excessive range of view of the CCTV
cameras in the Harbour area.

10.54The DPC further considers the Council’s responsible for the infringement of Article
32 GDPR by failing to ensure that persons accessing the footage would be able to be
identified at a subsequent point via access logs.

10.55 Against this backdrop, the DPC considers that the Council holds a high degree of
responsibility for the infringements and that the absence of sufficiently robust
42 WP253 pg 12-13

“3 EDPB Fining Guidelines, [77].

67

technical and organisational measures must be deterred. It is clear that Council did
not do ‘what it could be expected to do’ in the circumstances assessed in this
Decision.

10.56 However, in circumstances where these factors form the basis for the finding of the
infringement of Article 32 GDPR against the Council, these factors cannot be
considered aggravating in respect of the infringements. Therefore, the DPC considers
these factors to be neutral in the circumstances.

v. Article 83(2)(e) GDPR: any relevant previous infringements by the controller or
processor;

10.57In line with the EDPB Fining Guidelines, prior infringements are those already
established before the decision is issued.

10.58According to the A29WP Fining Guidelines, ‘[t]his criterion is meant to assess the
track record of the entity committing the infringement.’

10.59In this case, the Council has not been found to have committed any relevant previous
infringements of the GDPR by the DPC or another supervisory authority. However, in
the circumstances, this is of no mitigating value considering the brief period of time
that passed prior to the inquiry commencing in June 2018.

vi. Article 83(2)(f) GDPR: the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority,
in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of
the infringement;

10.60The extent to which the Council has cooperated with the inquiry is relevant to
consider under this heading. The Council cooperated with the DPC during the course
of the inquiry. The DPC does not regard this as a mitigating factor, however, as the
Council has a statutory duty to cooperate under Article 31 GDPR.

vii. Article 83(2)(g) GDPR: the categories of personal data affected by the
infringement;

10.61By way of example of the categories that may be relevant to consider here, the
A29WP Fining Guidelines suggest considering whether the infringements concern
Article 9 or 10 data, whether the data are directly or indirectly identifiable, whether
the data are encrypted or whether the processing involves data whose dissemination
would cause immediate damage or distress to the individual.”

4 A2OWP Fining Guidelines, p14.

68

10.62 The personal data affected by the infringements was likely to have included recorded
images of data subjects and their vehicles including registration details. The DPC does
not consider it likely that any special category data, as outlined in Article 9 GDPR, or
personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences, as outlined in Article 10
GDPR, would have been processed in the circumstances.

10.63 The DPC therefore considers that these factors are neither mitigating nor
aggravating in the circumstances.

viii. Article 83(2)(h) GDPR: the manner in which the infringement became known to
the supervisory authority, in particular whether, and if so to what extent, the
controller or processor notified the infringement;

10.64According to the A29WP Fining Guidelines, this section can be used to consider
whether the DPC became aware of the infringement ‘as a result of investigation,
complaints, articles in the press, anonymous tips or notification by the data
controller.’

10.65 The A29WP Fining Guidelines also note that,

The controller has an obligation according to the Regulation to notify the
supervisory authority about personal data breaches. Where the controller
merely fulfils this obligation, compliance with the obligation cannot be
interpreted as an attenuating/ mitigating factor. Similarly, a data
controller/processor who acted carelessly without notifying, or at least not
notifying all of the details of the infringement due to a failure to adequately
assess the extent of the infringement may also be considered by the
supervisory authority to merit a more serious penalty i.e. it is unlikely to be
classified as a minor infringement.*°

10.66 The EDPB Fining Guidelines state

In assessing this, particular weight can be given to the question whether, and
if so to what extent, the controller or processor notified the infringement out
of its own motion, before the infringement was known to the supervisory
authority by — for instance — a complaint or an investigation*®

And also that

45 A2ZQWP Fining Guidelines, p15.
46 EDPB Fining Guidelines, [98].

69

Where the infringement became known to the supervisory authority by, for
instance, a complaint or an investigation, this element should also, as a rule,
be considered as neutral.4”

10.67 In the present inquiry, the DPC became aware of the infringements as a result of an
own-volition inquiry. Therefore, the DPC considers this factor is neutral in the
circumstances.

ix. Article 83(2)(i) GDPR: where measures referred to in Article 58(2) have
previously been ordered against the controller or processor concerned with regard
to the same subject-matter, compliance with those measures;

10.68The A29WP Fining Guidelines state

As opposed to the criteria in (e), this assessment criteria only seeks to remind
supervisory authorities to refer to measures that they themselves have
previously issued to the same controller or processors ‘with regard to the same
subject matter’.

10.69 Corrective powers have not previously been ordered against the Council with regard
to the subject-matter of this Decision.

x. Article 83(2)(j) GDPR: adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to
Article 40 or approved certification mechanisms pursuant to Article 42

10.70This limb of Article 83(2) is not relevant for considering whether an administrative
fine should be imposed in respect of the infringements of the GDPR in the present
case.

xi. Article 83(2)(k) GDPR: any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to
the circumstances of the case, such as financial benefits gained, or losses avoided,
directly or indirectly, from the infringement.

10.71 The DPC is of the view that there are no other aggravating or mitigating factors in
respect of the infringements.

B. Decision on whether to impose an administrative fine

10.72The decision to impose an administrative fine ‘needs to be taken on a case-by-case
basis, in light of the circumstances of each individual case.’**

47 EDPB Fining Guidelines, [99].
48 AZOWP Fining Guidelines, p15.

70

10.73 Taking into account the assessment of the criteria at (a) to (k) above, the DPC has
decided to impose an administrative fine. The infringements were considered above
to be of a moderate seriousness by reference to their nature, gravity and duration in
line with Article 83(2)(a). Under Articles 83(2)(b) and (g), the DPC found that the
Council were negligent to a medium degree with respect to the infringements and
that the infringements affected personal data which, by their nature, carry a risk with
regard to the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, in particular in
relation to the information to be provided to a data subject under Article 13 GDPR.
These are aggravating factors indicating that a fine should be imposed. The DPC
considers that the measures adopted by the Council under Article 83(2)(c) to mitigate
the damage to data subjects is mitigating to a low degree, and this factor does not
negate the need for administrative fines in this Inquiry. The DPC considers that the
factors assessed in relation to Articles 83(2)(d)-(k) are neither mitigating nor
aggravating.

10.74In order to ensure compliance with the GDPR, it is necessary to dissuade non-
compliance. Depending on the circumstances of each individual case, dissuading
non-compliance can entail dissuading the entity concerned with the corrective
measures, or dissuading other entities carrying out similar processing operations, or
both. Where a serious infringement of the GDPR occurs, a reprimand may not be
sufficient to deter future non-compliance. In this regard, by imposing financial
penalties, administrative fines are effective in dissuading non-compliance. This is
recognised by the requirement in Article 83(1) GDPR for a fine, when imposed, to be
effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Recital 148 GDPR acknowledges that,
depending on the circumstances of each individual case, administrative fines may be
appropriate in addition to, or instead of, reprimands and other corrective powers:

In order to strengthen the enforcement of the rules of this Regulation,
penalties, including administrative fines should be imposed for any
infringement of this Regulation, in addition to, or instead of appropriate
measures imposed by the supervisory authority pursuant to this Regulation. In
a case of a minor infringement or if the fine likely to be imposed would
constitute a disproportionate burden to a natural person, a reprimand may be
issued instead of a fine.

10.75 While the reprimand will assist in dissuading the Council ’nd other entities from
similar future non-compliance, in light of the seriousness of the infringements, the
DPC does not consider that the reprimand alone is proportionate or effective to
achieve this end. The DPC finds that administrative fines are necessary to deter other
future serious non-compliance on the part of the Council and other controllers or

71

processors carrying out similar processing operations. The reasons for this finding
include:

a. Each infringement is moderate in nature and gravity, as set out above,
pursuant to Article 83(2)(a) GDPR. Infringements of this nature and gravity
must be dissuaded both in respect of the individual controller and in respect
of other entities carrying out similar processing.

b. Regarding the infringements of Articles 5(1)(c), 13, 25 and 30 GDPR, the DPC
considers that the Council’s non-compliance with its obligations under these
Articles must be strongly dissuaded. Such dissuasive effect is crucial for
protecting the rights and freedoms of those data subjects by implementing
appropriate measures.

Therefore, the DPC considers that an administrative fine is appropriate and
necessary in order to dissuade non-compliance.

10.76Having regard to the nature, gravity and duration of the infringements, the DPC also
considers that administrative fines are proportionate in the circumstances in view of
ensuring compliance. The DPC considers that administrative fines do not exceed
what is necessary to enforce compliance in respect of the infringements identified in
this Decision.

10.77The DPC considers that the negligent character of the Council's infringements of
Articles 5(1)(c), 13, 25 and 30 GDPR carries weight when considering whether to
impose administrative fines, and if so, the amount of those fines. This negligence
suggests that administrative fines are necessary to ensure that the Council directs
sufficient attention to its obligations under Articles 5(1)(c), 13, 25 and 30 GDPR in the
future.

10.78 The DPC considers that administrative fines would help to ensure that the Council
and other similar controllers take the necessary action to ensure the utmost care is
taken to avoid infringements of the GDPR in respect of users’ data.

10.79 The DPC has also had regard to the mitigating actions taken by the Council. In light
of the negligent character of the infringements, and the Council's failure to comply
with its obligations with regard to data protection, the DPC considers that dissuasive
administrative fines are necessary in the circumstances to ensure future compliance.

10.80Having considered the nature of the infringements of Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1) GDPR
and the fact there has been no ascertainable security breach arising, on the particular

72

circumstances of this case, the DPC has decided not to impose a fine for this
infringement.

10.81 Having considered the infringement of Article 5(1)(a) GDPR, the DPC takes the view
that the orders to bring processing into compliance above at paragraph 9.4 are the
most appropriate exercise of corrective powers with respect to that infringement

b) Decision on the amount of the administrative fine

10.82 Above, it was determined that it was necessary to impose an administrative fine. This
section calculates the amount of that fine, taking into account the methodology
required to be applied by the EDPB Fining Guidelines, based on the assessments of
the individual Article 83(2) GDPR criteria that are recorded above.

i) Article 83(3) GDPR
10.831n accordance with Article 83(3) GDPR:

lf a controller or processor intentionally or negligently, for the same or linked
processing operations, infringes several provisions of this Regulation, the total
amount of the administrative fine shall not exceed the amount specified for the
gravest infringement.

10.83As outlined previously, the infringements identified herein all relate to the
processing concerned, i.e. the CCTV programme of the Council and the technical and
organisational measures at Sligo Harbour.

10.841n respect of the interpretation of Article 83(3) GDPR, the DPC is mindful of its
obligations of cooperation and consistency in, inter alia, Articles 60(1) and 63 GDPR.
Accordingly, it is necessary to follow the EDPB’s interpretation of Article 83(3) GDPR
which was set out in the EDPB’s binding decision 1/2021, which was made in relation
to an inquiry conducted by the DPC.”

10.85 The relevant passages of the EDPB decision are as follows:

315. All CSAs argued in their respective objections that not taking into
account infringements other than the ‘gravest infringement’ is not in line with
their interpretation of Article 83(3) GDPR, as this would result in a situation
where WhatsApp IE is fined in the same way for one infringement as it would

49 Inquiry IN-18-12-2.

73

be for several infringements. On the other hand, as explained above, the IE SA
argued that the assessment of whether to impose a fine, and of the amount
thereof, must be carried out in respect of each individual infringement found
and the assessment of the gravity of the infringement should be done by taking
into account the individual circumstances of the case. The IE SA decided to
impose only a fine for the infringement of Article 14 GDPR, considering it to be
the gravest of the three infringements.

316. The EDPB notes that the IE SA identified several infringements in the
Draft Decision for which it specified fines, namely infringements of Article 12,
13 and 14 GDPR, and then applied Article 83(3) GDPR.

317. Furthermore, the EDPB notes that WhatsApp IE agreed with the
approach of the JE SA concerning the interpretation of Article 83(3) GDPR. In
its submissions on the objections, WhatsApp IE also raised that the approach
of the IE SA did not lead to a restriction of the IE SA’s ability to find other
infringements of other provisions of the GDPR or of its ability to impose a very
significant fine. WhatsApp IE argued that the alternative interpretation of
Article 83(3) GDPR suggested by the CSAs is not consistent with the text and
structure of Article 83 GDPR and expressed support for the IE SA’s literal and
purposive interpretation of the provision.

318.  Inthis case, the issue that the EDPB is called upon to decide is how the
calculation of the fine is influenced by the finding of several infringements
under Article 83(3) GDPR.

319. Article 83(3) GDPR reads that if ‘a controller or processor intentionally
or negligently, for the same or linked processing operations, infringes several
provisions of this Regulation, the total amount of the administrative fine shall
not exceed the amount specified for the gravest infringement.’

320. ‘First of all, it has to be noted that Article 83(3) GDPR is limited in its
application and will not apply to every single case in which multiple
infringements are found to have occurred, but only to those cases where
multiple infringements have arisen from ‘the same or linked processing
operations’.

321. The EDPB highlights that the overarching purpose of Article 83 GDPR is
to ensure that for each individual case, the imposition of an administrative fine
in respect of an infringement of the GDPR is to be effective, proportionate and
dissuasive. In the view of the EDPB, the ability of SAs to impose such deterrent

74

fines highly contributes to enforcement and therefore to compliance with the
GDPR.

322, As regards the interpretation of Article 83(3) GDPR, the EDPB points
out that the effet utile principle requires all institutions to give full force and
effect to EU law. The EDPB considers that the approach pursued by the IE SA
would not give full force and effect to the enforcement and therefore to
compliance with the GDPR, and would not be in line with the aforementioned
purpose of Article 83 GDPR.

323. Indeed, the approach pursued by the IE SA would lead to a situation
where, in cases of several infringements of the GDPR concerning the same or
linked processing operations, the fine would always correspond to the same
amount that would be identified, had the controller or processor only
committed one — the gravest — infringement. The other infringements would
be discarded with regard to calculating the fine. In other words, it would not
matter if a controller committed one or numerous infringements of the GDPR,
as only one single infringement, the gravest infringement, would be taken into
account when assessing the fine.

324. With regard to the meaning of Article 83(3) GDPR the EDPB, bearing in
mind the views expressed by the CSAs, notes that in the event of several
infringements, several amounts can be determined. However, the total
amount cannot exceed a maximum limit prescribed, in the abstract, by the
GDPR. More specifically, the wording ‘amount specified for the gravest
infringement’ refers to the legal maximums of fines under Articles 83(4), (5)
and (6) GDPR. The EDPB notes that the Guidelines on the application and
setting of administrative fines for the purposes of the Regulation 2016/679
state that the ‘occurrence of several different infringements committed
together in any particular single case means that the supervisory authority is
able to apply the administrative fines at a level which is effective,
proportionate and dissuasive within the limit of the gravest infringement’. The
guidelines include an example of an infringement of Article 8 and Article 12
GDPR and refer to the possibility for the SA to apply the corrective measure
within the limit set out for the gravest infringement, i.e. in the example the
limits of Article 83(5) GDPR.

325. The wording ‘total amount’ also alludes to the interpretation described
above. The EDPB notes that the legislator did not include in Article 83(3) GDPR
that the amount of the fine for several linked infringements should be (exactly)
the fine specified for the gravest infringement. The wording ‘total amount’ in
this regard already implies that other infringements have to be taken into

7§

account when assessing the amount of the fine. This is notwithstanding the
duty on the SA imposing the fine to take into account the proportionality of the
fine.

326. Although the fine itself may not exceed the legal maximum of the
highest fining tier, the offender shall still be explicitly found guilty of having
infringed several provisions and these infringements have to be taken into
account when assessing the amount of the final fine that is to be imposed.
Therefore, while the legal maximum of the fine is set by the gravest
infringement with regard to Articles 83(4) and (5) GDPR, other infringements
cannot be discarded but have to be taken into account when calculating the
fine.

327. In light of the above, the EDPB instructs the IE SA to amend its Draft
Decision on the basis of the objections raised by the DE SA, FR SA and PT SA
with respect to Article 83(3) GDPR and to also take into account the other
infringements — in addition to the gravest infringement — when calculating the
fine, subject to the criteria of Article 83(1) GDPR of effectiveness,
proportionality and dissuasiveness.

10.86The impact of this interpretation is that administrative fines are imposed
cumulatively, as opposed to imposing a fine for only the gravest infringement. The
only applicable limit for the total fine imposed, under this interpretation, is the
overall ‘cap’. By way of example, in a case of multiple infringements, if the gravest
infringement was one which carried a maximum administrative fine of 2% of the
turnover of the undertaking, the cumulative fine imposed could also not exceed 2%
of the turnover of the undertaking.

10.87 In this case, infringements were identified of Articles 5(1)(c), 13, 25 and 30 GDPR.
The gravest infringement is that of Article 13 GDPR. The Council omitted to provide
data subjects with fundamental information in this regard, such as its identity, the
contact details of the Data Protection Officer or its lawful basis for processing in
respect of the surveillance conducted at Sligo Harbour. A lack of transparency leads
to a loss of control over personal data, which, in turn, results in damage to data
subjects by restricting their ability to make decisions connected with the processing
of their personal data.

ii) Categorisation of the infringements

10.88As noted in the EDPB Fining Guidelines, Articles 83(4)-(6) GDPR indicate the degrees
of seriousness accorded to different categories of. Those Guidelines note that

76

With this distinction, the legislator provided a first indication of the seriousness
of the infringement in an abstract sense. The more serious the infringement, the
higher the fine is likely to be.

10.89The categorisation of the infringements under Articles 83(4) or (5) is a relevant
consideration in assessing the seriousness of the infringements in this case.

iii) Seriousness of the infringement pursuant to Articles 83(2)(a), (b) and (g) GDPR

10.90The EDPB Guidelines state that the factors assessed in relation to Articles 83(2)(a),
(b) and (g) GDPR indicate the seriousness of the infringement.” These factors were
assessed above. The guidelines also state that

This assessment is no mathematical calculation in which the abovementioned
factors are considered individually, but rather a thorough evaluation of the
concrete circumstances of the case, in which all of the abovementioned factors
are interlinked. Therefore, in reviewing the seriousness of the infringement,
regard should be given to the infringement as a whole.*?

10.91 Having regard to these factors as a whole, the infringements are of a medium level
of seriousness, Under Article 83(2)(a) the infringements were found to be of a
moderate nature and gravity. The infringements were also found to have been of
moderate duration. The infringements affected personal data which, by their nature,
carry a risk with regard to the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, as
assessed under Article 83(2)(g). The Council were also negligent to a medium degree
with respect to the infringements, as assessed under Article 83(2)(b). Therefore,
balancing these factors, the DPC considers that the infringements were of medium
seriousness.

iv) Imposing an effective, dissuasive and proportionate fine

10.92 Article 83(1) GDPR requires a fine to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in
each individual case. As the guidelines also say that this doesn’t ‘dismiss a
supervisory authority from the responsibility to carry out a review of the
effectiveness, dissuasiveness and proportionality at the end of the calculation.’
Article 83(1) will be considered again at the end of this calculation.

5° EDPB Fining Guidelines, [51].
51 EDPB Fining Guidelines, [59].

>? EDPB Fining Guidelines, [64].

77

v) Aggravating and mitigating circumstances

10.93 in relation to Article 83(2)(c), it was noted that the Council had erected a sign advising
data subjects to the use of CCTV in the area. This is considered to be a mitigating
factor of low weight.

10.941In relation to Article 83(2)(d), the DPC considers that this factor is neither aggravating
nor mitigating in the circumstances.

10.95 In relation to Article 83(2)(e), it was noted that the Council did not have any previous
relevant infringements. This factor is considered to be neither mitigating nor
aggravating.

10.961In relation to Article 83(2)(f), it was noted that the Council had cooperated with the
DPC. As the Council has a general obligation to cooperate under Article 31 GDPR, this
factor is considered to be neither mitigating nor aggravating.

10.97 In relation to Article 83(2)(h), it was noted that the manner in which the infringement
became known to the DPC was via an own-volition inquiry conducted by the DPC.
The DPC considers that this factor is neither aggravating nor mitigating in the
circumstances.

10.981n relation to Article 83(2)(i), it was noted that orders had not been previously
ordered by the DPC? with regard to the same subject matter. This factor is
considered to be neither mitigating nor aggravating.

10.99In relation to Article 83(2)(j), it was found that there were no relevant approved
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms for consideration. This factor
is neither mitigating nor aggravating.

10.100 In relation to Article 83(2)(k), it was noted that there were no additional aggravating
or mitigating factors for consideration.

10.101 Taking into account all of the matters arising for consideration as part of the
individual assessments required to be carried out pursuant to Article 83(2) together
with the requirements of the Fining Guidelines, as detailed above, the DPC imposes,
in respect of the Council’s infringement of Article 13 GDPR, a fine of €12,000, In

53 Paragraph 101 of the EDPB Fining Guidelines says ‘as opposed to Article 83(2)(e) GDPR, this assessment only
refers to measures that supervisory authorities themselves have previously issued to the same controller or
processor with regard to the same subject matter.’

78

respect of the Council’s infringement of Article 5(1)(c) and 25 GDPR, the DPC imposes
a fine of €7,500. In respect of the Council’s infringement of Article 30 GDPR, the DPC
imposes a fine of €10,000. Overall this amounts to a cumulative fine of €29,500.

vi) The relevant legal maximums for administrative fines

10.102 The DPC notes that the Council is a public body. Section 141(4) of the 2018 Act
provides that any administrative fine that the DPC decides to impose on public
bodies shall not exceed €1,000,000 unless the public body is one that acts as an
undertaking within the meaning of the Competition Act 2002. As the administrative
fines imposed in this Decision do not exceed that amount, it is not necessary for the
DPC to determine whether the Council acts as an undertaking.

vii) Article 83(1) GDPR: Effectiveness, proportionality and dissuasiveness
Effectiveness

10.103 It is the DPC’s view that for a fine to be effective, it must be large enough to have a
significant effect on the controller or processor such that GDPR compliance,
motivated by avoiding such fines in the future, becomes a factor in the entity’s
governance and management decision-making at the highest level. Furthermore, a
sufficiently large fine is necessary to ensure that the fine is not a mere insignificant
expense for the controller or processor concerned, and to ensure that the entity does
not enjoy an unfair advantage by its ability to absorb even large fines for its
infringements of the GDPR. The infringements concern surveillance of the public by
a local authority. The personal data subject to processing, by their nature, carry a risk
with regard to the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, and should be
subject to appropriate safeguards. In that context, the DPC considers that the level
of the imposed fines ensure sufficiently effective fines, and no further adjustment is
required.

Dissuasiveness

10.1041n order for a fine to be ‘dissuasive’, it must dissuade both the controller or
processor concerned as well as other controllers or processors carrying out similar
processing operations from repeating the conduct concerned. The DPC considers
that the imposed fines are dissuasive for both. The DPC considers the monetary
value of the fines to be sufficient to have such a deterrent effect.

10.105 Each infringement is moderate in nature and gravity as set out pursuant to Article
83(2)(a) GDPR. Infringements that are of a moderate nature and gravity must be

strongly dissuaded both in respect of the individual controller and in respect of

79

other entities carrying out similar processing. Regarding the infringements of
Articles 5(1)(c), 13, 25 and 30 GDPR, the DPC considers that the Council’s non-
compliance with its obligations under these Articles must be strongly dissuaded.
Such dissuasive effect is crucial for protecting the rights and freedoms of data
Subjects by implementing appropriate measures. Therefore, the DPC considers that
the administrative fines are appropriate and necessary in order to dissuade non-
compliance.

10.106 The DPC considers that the negligent character of the Council's infringements of
Articles 5(1)(c), 13, 25 and 30 GDPR carries weight when considering the amount of
those fines. The level of negligence suggests that the administrative fines are
necessary to ensure that the Council directs sufficient attention to its obligations
under Articles 5(1)(c), 13, 25 and 30 GDPR in the future.

10.107 The DPC considers that the amounts of the administrative fines would help to
ensure that the Council and other similar controllers take the necessary action to
ensure the utmost care is taken to avoid infringements of the GDPR in respect of
users’ data.

10.108 The DPC has had regard to the fact that the Council had erected a sign at Sligo
Harbour, which adverted to the use of cameras, and is a mitigating factor of low
weight. In light of the negligent character of the infringements, and the Council’s
failure to comply with its obligations with regard to data protection, the DPC
considers that dissuasive administrative fines to the extent imposed are necessary
in the circumstances to ensure future compliance.

Proportionality

10.109 Proportionality is a principle of EU law that requires a measure to pursue a legitimate
objective, be appropriate to attain that objective, and not go beyond what is
necessary to achieve the objective. The objectives of the administrative fines in this
case are to both re-establish compliance with the rules, and to sanction the Council's
infringements. As regards the requirement for any fine to be necessary to these
objectives, this requires the DPC to adjust the quantum of any fines to the minimum
amount necessary to achieve the objectives pursued by the GDPR.

10.110 Having regard to the nature, gravity and duration of the infringements, the DPC
considers that the administrative fines are proportionate in the circumstances in
view of ensuring compliance. The Council’s infringements of Articles 5(1)(c), 13, 25
and 30 GDPR suggested a lack of oversight and the potential failure to adhere to
proper data protection principles. The DPC considers that the administrative fines

80

are proportionate to responding to the Council's infringements of Articles 5(1)(c), 13,
25 and 30 GDPR with a view to ensuring compliance in the future. The DPC considers
that administrative fines do not exceed what is necessary to enforce compliance in
respect of the infringements identified in this Decision.

11. Right of Appeal

11.1 This Decision is issued in accordance with sections 111 and 124 of the 2018 Act.
Pursuant to section 150(5) of the 2018 Act, the Council will have the right to appeal
against the Decision within 28 days from the date on which notice of this Decision is
received by it. Furthermore, pursuant to section 142 of the 2018 Act, as this Decision
includes a decision to impose an administrative fine, the Council will also have the
right to appeal against that Decision within 28 days from the date on which notice of
the Decision is given to it.

Decision-makers for the DPC:

Dr Des Hogan Dalé Sunderland
Commissioner for Data Protection Commissioner for Data Protection

81