1/13

 File No.: EXP202204189

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 21, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
transcribe:

<<

File No.: EXP202204189

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) on March 16,
2022 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
forward, the claimed party or Vodafone). The reasons on which the claim is based
are the following:

The claimant, user of a mobile phone line contracted with Vodafone,
has been a victim of malicious actions by unknown third parties,
consisting of requesting without your consent a duplicate of your SIM card, and, after
be granted the same, access your bank information and make a
fraudulent bank transfer.

Specifically, the claimant states that, on February 25, 2022,
began to receive calls from abroad on his mobile terminal, to which he did not
answered and then received several SMS from his bank informing of movements
in your bank account and in your online banking application, being able to verify that
Both his account and the aforementioned application had been blocked.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

Thus, after taking steps with Vodafone, he revealed that "they had
provided to an unknown male, the data of my SIM card, as well as the deviation
of said services to the phone ***TELEPHONE.1>>. Apparently, said third party only
He identified himself with his first name, then gave the claimant's information
indicating that the SIM card had been damaged and requested the diversion to another
terminal, without the requested entity carrying out any type of verification
additional.

And, provide the following relevant documentation:

Copy of the complaint filed with the Police, on February 26, 2022, as well
as an extension of it.

Extract of bank movements.

Written complaint addressed to your financial institution.

Printed screenshots provided by the telephone operator, relating to the details of
the disputed interaction and what was subsequently indicated by the complainant.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on May 4, 2022 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On June 9, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating:
 
<<That after analyzing the claim and investigating what happened, Vodafone has been able to
verify that, on February 25, 2022, the forwarding of calls from
line ***TELEPHONE.2, owned by the claimant, to the telephone number of a
third.

To request said call forwarding, said third party provided all the information of the
claimant, thus exceeding the Vodafone Security Policy.

Once the claimant became aware of the abnormal operation of her mobile line,
contacted Vodafone, which forwarded the incident to the Department of
Fraud. After investigating what happened, Vodafone's Fraud Department returned the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

control of line ***TELEPHONE.2 to the claimant and declared the incident as
fraudulent, implementing security measures in the client account of the claimant
additional security necessary in order to avoid similar incidents.

This part wants to point out that the effective management of a call forwarding entails the
overcoming the security policies that Vodafone has implemented in order to
prevent fraudulent practices on the personal data of their
customers. In this sense, and having processed said management subject to said policy
security, my client understood at all times that they were
lawful, real and truthful efforts.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, on February 26, 2022, just one day after
of suffering the call forwarding, the Vodafone Fraud Department reversed the
call forwarding, giving the claimant back control over her mobile line.

Likewise, the fraud victim check was activated in the claimant's customer ID.

In this sense, as a consequence of the application of the fraud victim check,
a security notice was inserted into the claimant's customer account with the
legend:

“Do not provide information, make changes, activate products, orders, etc.,
if the customer calls from lines other than those contracted with Vodafone,
call concealment and international origin. You should always consult and follow the
security policy".

With regard to carrying out bank transactions of a
fraudulent evidence revealed by the claimant in her claim, it is opportune
express that carrying out a call forwarding implies only receiving
of incoming calls in a third terminal and not an access to the accounts
bank of the owner.

Therefore, it does not seem possible that there is a correlation between the events that occurred in
relationship with my client and what happened with the bank of which he is a client

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

the claimant. In this sense, the bank movements that he alleges in his
claim do not have their origin, nor have they been caused by invoices for
Vodafone services that he had contracted, but are due to accesses
made through your bank account. Therefore, Vodafone cannot
be responsible for the accesses and banking movements that could have been
made fraudulently.

With all this, we can confirm that currently my client has carried out
all pertinent actions to resolve the claim, estimating that
has been correctly resolved prior to the receipt of this
written.>>

THIRD: On June 13, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

RESULT OF INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

It is on record that a call diversion has been made on the claimant's line in
dated February 25, 2022, which was reversed the following day, having been qualified
fraudulent by the fraud department of the claimed party.

There is a contact dated February 25, 2022 in which the customer service agent
telephone company recorded the following annotation: "reason: customer who wants to forward
because the SIM is broken. management: I inform him that it has to be with the code but he
He says that they have done it other times before I consult but it cannot be done while
management is cut off I call again but they don't answer”.

There is another contact minutes later in which the telephone service agent
recorded the following annotation: "B.B.B.[...] client provides all the policy data and
request a diversion."

The representatives of the claimed party have stated that they do not have the
Evidence that allows confirming the personal data that was requested from the applicant
of call forwarding on February 25, 2022, while said calls
they were not recorded.
The representatives of the claimed party have confirmed that the claimant did not
He had a customer service access code on the date of the facts.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

The representatives of the claimed party indicate that, from the investigations
practiced, have been able to verify that the referred incident took place because the
The agent who carried out the contracting described did not follow the procedure established in
the security policy to properly identify the applicant for the procedure and
make sure it was the owner of the phone line.

They state that the agent, contrary to the established procedure, did not verify
properly that the calling telephone did not correspond to a telephone line to
name of the claimant nor did it subsequently verify the adequacy of the procedure
contacting the number of the claimant. They indicate that, consequently,
breached the Security Policy implemented by Vodafone and action was taken against
the guidelines provided by the entity to its agents for contracting services
by phone call.

They do not mention, therefore, that according to the security policy they provide, if a caller
person other than the owner (and in this case it is clear to state that Juan José called), the
The applicant must provide the telephone service code, which was not activated, being
Therefore, it was impossible for him to provide it and the process could not be carried out. The acting
correct according to the supplied policy (the second supplied policy) would be the one followed by
the agent who answered the first call on the day of the events, who according to what has been
commented, denied the request without having the active password or without providing the password.

It is established that the claimant has been marked in the entity's information system,
as a result of the facts and to avoid their recurrence, with the following notice
pop-up in your customer file that is shown to the manager of telephone attention "No
provide information, make changes, product activation, orders, etc., if
the client calls from lines other than the ones he has contracted with Vodafone,
call concealment and international origin. You should always consult and follow the
security policy".

FIFTH: According to the report collected from the AXESOR tool, the entity
VODAFONE SPAIN, S.A.U. is a large company established in 1994, and with
a turnover of 2,028,817,000 euros in the year 2022.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Breached Obligation

Well then, the defendant is accused of committing an offense for violation of the
Article 6 of the GDPR, "Legacy of the treatment", which indicates in its section 1 the
cases in which the processing of third-party data is considered lawful:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled
conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply.
application to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions”.

II

Classification and classification of the offense

 The infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

The LOPDGD, for the purposes of the prescription of the infringement, qualifies in its article 72.1
very serious infringement, in this case the limitation period is three years, "b)
The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

In the present case, it is proven that a third party requested a change of services
to the claimed party, that is, the activation of call forwarding due to fracture,
supposedly, from the SIM card.

Well, in your responses dated June 9 and October 28, 2022, the part
The defendant acknowledges that there was identity theft in the activation of the
call forwarding of the line owned by the complaining party.

It is clear that calls were diverted on the claimant's line on the day
September 25, 2021, which was requested by a third party.

Vodafone acknowledges that it cannot prove the data that the customer service agent
phone asked the requester when he activated the diversion and also that the manager did not continue
the procedure provided for in the security policy to properly identify the
applicant, and states in its response to the requirement of this Agency dated
October 28, 2022, the following: <<Vodafone has been able to verify that the
referred incident occurred because the agent who carried out the contracting
described did not follow the procedure provided in the Security Policy to identify
properly to the applicant of the procedure and make sure that it was the holder of the
telephone line. The agent, contrary to the established procedure, did not verify
properly that the calling telephone did not correspond to a telephone line
in the name of the claimant nor did it subsequently verify the adequacy of the procedure
contacting the number of the claimant>>.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, the
diligence used by the defendant to identify the person who requested
call forwarding.

In any case, the procedure implemented by the claimed party was not followed, since,
if it did, the diversion activation should have been denied
of calls.

In view of the foregoing, the claimed party fails to prove that this
procedure and therefore there was an illegal treatment of the personal data of
the complaining party, thereby contravening article 6 of the GDPR.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

"(40) For processing to be lawful, personal data must be processed with the
consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established in accordance
a Law, either in this Regulation or under other Union law
or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation, including the
the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller or the
need to execute a contract to which the interested party is a party or for the purpose of
take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of a
contract."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

IV.

Sanction proposal

The determination of the sanction that should be imposed in the present case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the GDPR, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:
"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”
"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to certification mechanisms.
fications approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

as the financial benefits obtained or the losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

 Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled "Sancio-
and corrective measures”:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of
the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the fine to
impose on the entity claimed as responsible for an infringement classified in the
article 83.5.a) of the GDPR and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD, in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

As aggravating circumstances:

-

The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
treatment of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD).
   The Judgment of the National Court of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006), in which,
with respect to entities whose activity entails the continuous processing of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

10/13

customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court has understood that
recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is
that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the
assessment of the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now
examined, when the appellant's activity is constant and abundant
handling of personal data must insist on rigor and exquisite
Be careful to comply with the legal provisions in this regard.”

As mitigations:

The claimed party proceeded to resolve the incident that is the subject of the claim
effective (art. 83.2 c).

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the defendant and set it at the amount of 70,000
€ for the alleged violation of article 6.1) typified in article 83.5.a) of the
cited GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397, for the alleged violation of article 6.1) typified in the
Article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned GDPR.
SECOND: APPOINT as instructor D.C.C.C. and as secretary to Ms. D.D.D.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
co of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be for the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.5 a) of the GDPR, the sanction that would correspond would be a
fine for an amount of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros) without prejudice to what is
of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A80907397 granting a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed other than a fine, may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to the present initiation agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% for the sanction that should be imposed
in this proceeding, equivalent in this case to fourteen thousand euros (€14,000).
With the application of this reduction, the amount of the sanction would be established in
fifty-six thousand euros (€56,000), resolving the procedure with the imposition
of this sanction.
In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, in
accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a
reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to fourteen thousand
euros (€14,000), for the alleged offence. With the application of this reduction, the
amount of the sanction would be established at fifty-six thousand euros (€56,000) and
Your payment will imply the termination of the procedure, without prejudice to the imposition of
the corresponding measures.
The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at forty-two thousand euros (€42,000).
In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.
In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated, 56,000 euros or 42,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for reducing the amount to which
welcomes.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

>>

SECOND: On May 8, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 56,000 euros making use of one of the two reductions
provided for in the Startup Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there has not been
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202204189, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

937-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

