 
 
 
 
 
Our ref.: 11.17.001.010.007 
 

 

4 October 2023 

Decision 

Requesting Excessive Identification Information to Comply to a Subject 

Access Request by Technius Ltd 

 

A  complaint  was  lodged  with  the  Netherlands  DPA  against  Technius  Ltd  (the 
controller), whose main establishment is in Cyprus. Moreover, the complaint was 
subsequently  transmitted  to  the  Office  of  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data 
Protection (Cyprus SA) on 23/12/2021, in line with Article 56 of the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR). 
 
2.  On  the  basis  of  the  above,  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection 
(the Commissioner) is acting as the lead authority in this matter. In the course of 
the investigation, other EU countries were identified as being concerned by this 
case. 
 
 
Description of the case 
 
3.  The  complaint  was  filed  against  Technius  Ltd  which  manages  the  website 
stripchat.com that sells live access to nude models. The complaint included the 
following information: 
 
3.1.  The  complainant  was  informed  through  online  media  that  the  website 
StripChat  had  suffered  a  data  breach.  Following  this,  he  searched  his  mailbox 
and  discovered 
than  himself, 
registered/created an account at StripChat using his personal email account. He 
then  contacted 
the  support  email  address 
help@stripchat.com on 17/11/2021, requesting to receive a copy of his personal 
data  held  by  the  company,  following  the  provisions  of  Article  15  GDPR. 
Additionally,  he  enquired  whether  his  personal  data  was  affected  by  the  above 
data breach.  
 
3.2. On 01/12/2021, the controller replied via email address legal@stripchat.com, 
informing  him  that  in  order  to  proceed  with  his  request,  he  had  to  submit  a 
government  issued  identification  document,  to  verify  the  identity  of  the  person 
requesting  the  data.  In  his  reply,  the  complainant  insisted  that  requesting  a 
government ID would be excessive since he has made a request using his email 
address and thus no further identification would be required. 
 
3.3. The complainant was further informed that the data which was processed by 
the  controller  and  was  related  to  his  email  address,  was  the  IP  address  and 
username that was collected during the account registration. The controller also 

that  on  22/10/2019,  someone  other 

the  controller 

through 

mentioned  that  if  the complainant  wanted  to  receive  a  copy  of  these  data,  they 
need to identify him, or alternatively, they could remove the said data completely 
from their system.  
  
3.4.  The  complainant  replied  and  stated  that  someone  else  had  created  the 
account on StripChat using his email and also that he was not notified of the data 
breach  He  also  refused  to  provide  any  copy  of  identification  document.  The 
controller in their response, informed the complainant that the account would be 
deleted as it was created fraudulently and also referred him to the notification of 
the data breach on the website’s blog post. 
  
3.5.  The controller also informed him that due to the nature of the incident, they 
were not in a position to identify the exact data that was affected by the breach. 
The  complainant  responded  that  he  could  confirm  that  his  personal  data  was 
affected by the breach through an alert he got by the SpyCloud service.  
 
4. In summary, on the basis of the allegations of the complainant, the controller:  
  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

informing  him 

through  email,  and 

only  made  a  public  announcement  through  a  blog  post,  instead  of 
personally 
the  blog 
announcement  he  could  not  determine  whether  his  personal  data  was 
affected by the incident, 
has  processed  incorrect  personal  data  and  stored  it  for  more  than  two 
years, 
requested  him  to  submit  an  identification  document  in  order  to  fulfill  his 
access request. 

through 

 
Investigation by Cyprus SA 
 
5.1.  The  Commissioner’s  Office  contacted  the  Controller  on  11/2/2022,  and 
requested  their  views  on  the  matters  raised  by  the  complainant  and,  among 
others:  
 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

The  reason  for  not  informing  each  data  subject  individually  about  the 
breach. 
The  legal  basis  under  which  an  identification  document  is  required  to 
respond to a data subject’s access request, or any other right (e.g., right 
to erasure, to rectification, etc.). 
The  reason  for  not  satisfying  the  data  subject’s  request  by  providing  the 
information directly to the connected email. 

 
5.2. In their reply, the controller stated the following: 
 

i. 

The data breach was deemed is likely to result in a high risk to the rights 
and freedoms of the affected data subjects. Moreover, the controller 
chose to inform their registered users through the website blog post taking 
into consideration: 
  That there was no indication of how many and which users were 

affected by the breach and 

 

2 

 

the very large number of registered emails which would take 
approximately 5 months to inform by individual emails. 

 

ii.  As regards the identification documents requested, 

 

 
 
 
 

 

the  procedure  for  requesting  identification  documents  is  only  for 
data subject access requests, 
the purpose is to protect user data from unauthorized disclosure, 
the identification documents are deleted after verifying the identity, 
the email address is not a sufficient security measure, 
the 
the 
document with existing records or billing information, 
the  procedure  follows  the  GDPR  requirement  of  using  reasonable 
measures  to  verify  the  identity  of  the  data  subject  (Recital  64 
GDPR). 

is  authenticated  by  comparing 

identification 

identity 

 

iii. 

The  complainant’s  access  request  was  considered  as  satisfied  since  the 
controller  provided  all  the  necessary  information  and  explanations  with 
regards to the account opened under his email address as well as all the 
information that could be provided about the incident.  

 
5.3.  The  Commissioner’s  Office  took  into  account  the  above  facts  and 
information,  the  comments  from  concerned  supervisory  authorities,  and  noted 
the below: 
  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

that  a  blog  post  was  not  sufficient 

It  was  considered 
the 
communication of the data breach to the affected data subjects and thus 
the  Commissioner  immediately  instructed  the  controller  to  proceed  with 
sending an email to all registered users regardless of the effort and time 
needed. The controller complied with the instruction without delay. 

for 

The account registered to the complainant’s email address was active and 
thus  the  erasure  of  the  data  was  not  justified  before  the  complainant 
contacted them. 

The registration process requires that the user confirms the registration by 
using  a  single-use  password  that  is  sent  to  his  mailbox  thus  ensuring 
accountability. 

The  complainant’s  email  address  was  confirmed  during  the  registration, 
which  could  only  be  done  by  a  person  with  access  to  the  specific  email 
address.  Considering  that  the  complainant  claims  he  did  not  perform  the 
registration  himself,  it  can  be  deduced  that  his  email  address  was 
accessed by a non-authorized person.   

v.  When the complainant informed the controller that someone else used his 
email address to register, the controller informed him that in this case, the 
Username  and  IP  address  were  personal  data  of  the  third  party  who 
opened 
the 
complainant  was  informed  about  what  type  of  data  were  related  to  the 

the  account  by  using  his  email  address.  Moreover, 

3 

 

 

 

 

 

account associated with his email address and was also informed that the 
account  and  the  connected  personal  data  would  be  deleted  from  the 
website database since the account was fraudulently opened. 

 
 
Preliminary Decision 
 
6. On 15 June 2023, the Commissioner issued a Preliminary Decision regarding 
the  above  investigation.  In  the  said  Preliminary  Decision,  the  Commissioner 
concluded that: 
 

a.  The  complainant’s  account  was  active  and  the  controller  was  not  aware 
that it was opened fraudulently. Therefore, the controller had no reason to 
erase the data before the incident. 

b.  There is a breach of Article 5(1)(c) GDPR (principle of data minimization) 
since  the  controller  did  not  have  a  plausible  reason  to  ask  for  a 
government ID from the complainant, specifically considering that: 

i.  the controller requested the identification before they were notified by 

the complainant that the account was opened fraudulently, 

ii.   the controller could not have used any government ID to identify the 
DS,  since  the  controller  does  not  already  process  any  of  the  data 
types included in any government issued ID, 

iii.  the complainant could have been identified through the linked email 
address without the need for additional identification documentation, 
and 

c.  there  is  an  infringement  of  Article  34(1)  GDPR  since  the  controller  did 

not communicate the personal data breach in an appropriate way. 
 

7.1. The controller responded on 26 June 2023 to the Preliminary Decision and 
stated, inter alia, that: 
 

a.  The  company  has  implemented  further  organizational  and  technical 

measures to guarantee full compliance with the GDPR. 

b.  With regards to the infringement identified under Article 5(1)(c) of the 
GDPR, the collection of identification documents procedure was only 
applicable to “access requests” and the intention was strictly to protect the 
data of the users from any unauthorized disclosure in accordance with 
Recital 64 of the GDPR. Nevertheless, this procedure has been 
abandoned and the email verification will be used as a sufficient measure 
to verify the ownership of the personal data in question. 

c.  With regards to the infringement identified under Article 34(1), at that time 
it was considered the public announcement through the website blog was 
the  most  suitable  and  efficient  measure  to  inform  the  affected  users.  In 
addition, the process of contacting each user personally through an email 
would  have  taken  at  least  5  months  to  be  completed  in  comparison  with 
the  mass  and  immediate  notice  through  the  blog.  Despite  this,  the 
controller  complied  with  the  Commissioner’s  instructions  and  proceeded 
with  personal  email  notification  as  it  was  not  their  intention  to  avoid 
informing the affected users. 

 

 

4 

7.2.  In  addition  to  the  above,  the  controller  included  the  following  mitigating 
factors to be taken into account by the Commissioner: 

a.  The controller immediately informed the Commissioner about the incident 

and took all reasonable steps to mitigate the impact on its users. In 
addition, it was and as of today is still in constant communication with the 
Commissioner. 

b.  Even though the company has been operating since 2016, it is the first 

time that the Commissioner or any other DPA authority receives a 
complaint about the company procedures regarding GDPR. 

c.  The controller complied with all the requests of the Office of the 

Commissioner for Personal Data Protection without any delay and 
consulted the Commissioner during all steps to ensure compliance with 
GDPR. 

d.  Actively improved its security measures and internal processes as per the 

guidance and recommendations of the Commissioner. It informed its 
users through direct email communication in addition to the public 
announcement initially made and changed its procedure regarding the 
access requests of the data subjects. 

e.  It is clearly evidenced from its immediate compliance with the 

Commissioner’s requests that there was no intention to infringe either 
article 5(1)( c) or article 34(1) of the GDPR. 

 
Legal framework 
 
8.1. Pursuant to Article 5(1)(c) of the GDPR “Personal Data shall be: 
… 
(c)  adequate,  relevant  and  limited  to  what  is  necessary  in  relation  to  the 
purposes for which they are processed ('data minimisation');  
…” 
 
8.2. Pursuant to article 34(1) of the GDPR “When the personal data breach is 
likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons,  the 
controller  shall  communicate  the  personal  data  breach  to  the  data  subject 
without undue delay.” 
 
8.3. Pursuant to Article 58(2) GDPR, Each supervisory authority shall have all 
of the following corrective powers: 
…(b)to  issue  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  a  processor  where  processing 
operations have infringed provisions of this Regulation; 
…(d)  to  order  the  controller  or  processor  to  bring  processing  operations  into 
compliance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Regulation,  where  appropriate,  in  a 
specified manner and within a specified period; 
…(i)  to  impose  an  administrative  fine  pursuant  to  Article  83,  in  addition  to,  or 
instead  of  measures  referred 
the 
circumstances of each individual case; 
 
8.4. Recital 86 of the GDPR states that the need to mitigate an immediate risk 
of damage would call for prompt communication with data subjects. 

this  paragraph,  depending  on 

to 

in 

 

5 

 
 
 
 
Views of the Commissioner 
 
 
9. Following the above facts and the response to my Preliminary Decision I note 
the below: 
 
9.1.  I  recognise  that  the  controller’s  intention  for  requesting  an  identification 
document was to protect any unauthorized disclosure. Despite this, as it is stated 
in recital 64, a controller should not retain personal data for the sole purpose of 
being  able 
identification 
documents  solely  for  satisfying  data  subject  rights  is  excessive,  regardless  of 
when the data is collected.  
 
9.2. Additionally, I hold the position that the controller should have informed the 
affected  data  subjects  more  directly  taking  into  consideration  the  nature  of  the 
breach and the categories of personal data affected. This is also strengthened by 
the fact that the controller regularly processes data concerning the sex life of its 
registered users. 
 
 
 
Decision 

to  potential  requests.  Thus,  collecting 

to  react 

10. Having regard to all the above information, and based on the powers vested 
in me by Articles 58 and 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and article 24(b) of 
National Law 125(I)/2018, I conclude that there is an infringement by  Technius 
Ltd of Article 5(1)(c) and 34(1) of the GDPR, for the reasons mentioned above. 

11.  Moreover,  following  an  infringement  of  Article  5(1)(c)  and  34(1)  GDPR,  as 
explained  above,  under  the  provisions  of  Article  83  of  the  GDPR,  I  take  into 
account the following mitigating (1-3) and aggravating (4-6) factors: 
 
1. That there is no previous violation by the controller of the GDPR. 
2. The controller complied with all the requests of the Commissioner without any 
delay. 
3. The measures taken after the incident to ensure that all staff is appropriately 
trained in handling GDPR matters. 
4. The controller should have taken appropriate and prompt measures in 
effectively communicating the breach to its users. 
5. The complainant should have been identified using other less excessive 
means. 
6. The controller should have implemented more appropriate procedures and 
measures considering the processing of special categories of data. 
 
 

 

6 

 
 
 
 
14. In view of the above and on the basis of the powers conferred on me by the 
provisions of subparagraph (b) of paragraph (2) of Article 58 of the GDPR, I have 
decided to issue a reprimand to Technius Ltd for the infringement mentioned in 
paragraph 10 above. In the event of a recurrence of a similar infringement within 
12 months from today, this Decision may be counted against the company. 
 
 
 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 

 

7 

