1/5

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00108/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 13, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, motivated by
the processing of data carried out through cameras of a video surveillance system
whose presumed owner is B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter the claimed) installed
at PROPERTY ENTRANCE ***ADDRESS.1.

The reasons on which the claim is based are "installation of a security camera
video-surveillance" without just cause in the entrance area of a property for private use.
shared, without having any information poster.

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (photographs No. 1 and 2) that

accredit the installation of some type of device.

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, in accordance with the evidence
that is available, the Data Inspection of this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data considers that the treatment of personal data that is carried out by the
denounced through the chambers to which the complaint refers, does not meet the
conditions imposed by the regulations on data protection, for which reason the
opening of this sanctioning procedure.

THIRD: On June 7, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 06/25/19, this Agency received a written statement of allegations from the
defendant stating the following:

“It is true that in 2014, three video cameras were installed-

surveillance at “***LOCAL.1”, property of the appearing party (…).

The complainant is the niece of the appearing party and co-owner of the property in
which the cameras are installed. The complainant has full knowledge
from the very installation of the security cameras, that these were never
were going to be connected, also knowing the reasons for their installation and
agreeing with them.

The bad relations that arose subsequently between the claimant and the
appearing, have given rise to the Ordinary procedure indicated with the number
505/2018, followed up before the Court of First Instance No. 2 of Santoña.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

In view of the foregoing, only the Archive of these

actions, as no infraction has been committed.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On 02/13/19 a claim is received at this Agency through the
which is transferred as the main fact "installation of camera (s) without just cause"
being able to affect the right to privacy of the complainant.
 
Second. It is identified as the main person in charge Doña B.B.B., which does not
denies the facts, acknowledging the installation of "three cameras" for reasons of
property security.

Third. It is proven that the camera system denounced is not operational,
attached documentary evidence (Doc. 2) technical report that accredits such end.

Fourth. It has not been verified that any image of the complainant or of a third party
has been obtained from the denounced system.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

In the present case, we proceed to analyze the claim dated 02/13/19 by
means of which the main fact is transferred as "installation of a camera of
video-surveillance” without just cause.

The facts described above may imply an affectation of art. 5.1 c)
RGPD, which provides:

“Personal data will be: c) adequate, pertinent and limited to the
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")".

Cameras installed by individuals

 must be oriented
preferably towards their private space, with the distinctive mandatory
informative for the appropriate legal purposes.

3/5

The individual responsible for the installation must be able to accredit before
this Control Authority that it complies with all legal requirements
required, indicating where appropriate the reason for the installation.

The party denounced in a pleadings brief (06/25/19) acknowledges the
installation of a video-surveillance system, although it states that it has never
operational state.

Provides documentary evidence (Doc. No. 2) that certifies that the camera system
is not operational, being the same signed by the Technician responsible for the
installation of it.

It should be remembered that the lack of "data processing" of a personal nature makes
that we are not faced with an administrative infraction within the framework of the matter
that concerns us, given that the system is not operational, fulfilling a function
merely "dissuasive".

It is the responsibility of everyone who installs a security camera system
because it conforms to the regulations in force, and in the case of
false or non-operative cameras that they do not affect the sphere of rights of
third parties that can be seen "intimidated" by this type of device in the belief
of being watched and recorded.

The conduct described above, although it is not administratively sanctionable,
may be subject to prosecution in a civil court, where the parties can
if it deems it appropriate, put forward the pertinent allegations and evidence.

This body reminds the accused party that the camera (located in the
interior of the building) with shared access, must be installed in such a way that it does not
harms the opposing party (complainant), and must try to the extent possible
possible an installation that allows it to fulfill the dissuasive function that is
pretends and simultaneously not to bother the complainant, who is "intimidated" by
the same in the belief of being subject to recording and / or control in the access / exit of the
property.

III

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the same of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
most favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

IV

In accordance with the foregoing and analysis of the allegations made and the evidence
provided, it can be concluded that the denounced system is not operational, fulfilling a
mere dissuasive function, so that there is no "processing of data of
personal character".

Finally, the parties are reminded of the transcendence of the rights in
game, and must avoid instrumentalizing this body for "family" disputes or
well by resolving them in the appropriate judicial instances (vgr. SAN 04/01/11
Rec. 2223/2010).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to decree the ARCHIVE of this procedure, since
verify the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Doña B.B.B. and REPORT the
result of the actions to the denouncing party Ms. A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly

5/5

contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

