

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Check of the legal title for addressing persons by the intermediary of the sale of electricity and natural gas (UOOU-02219/21)
Intermediary in the sale of electricity and natural gas


The Office carried out an inspection on the basis of the Office's Control Plan for 2021, the subject of which was compliance with the obligations set by the general regulation in connection with the processing of personal data when offering mediation or the sale of energy. .The inspection also did not reveal that the inspected person collects or processes personal data for other than explicitly established and legitimate purposes, which are mainly pre-contract negotiations, performance of the contract, fulfillment of the legal obligations of the controller, protection of the legitimate interests of the controller and sending commercial messages, marketing and verification creditworthiness or payment morale of the customer in the SOLUS debtor register. It was not found that the processors of the controlled person process personal data contrary to the purposes set by the controlled person in the contracts for the processing of personal data. The control found that the controlled person processes relevant and adequate personal data, to the extent necessary for the individual processing purposes that have been determined . It was not found that the controlled person kept the personal data of the data subjects for a longer period of time than is necessary for these purposes. However, the inspectors noted a violation of the general regulation, as the controlled person for a certain period provided incorrect information about approximately 50 processors on its website in the list of processors , who, according to the content of the concluded personal data processing contracts, are personal data administrators, not processors. This error was corrected by the inspected person during the inspection. The fulfillment of the obligations of the controlled person within the framework of processing relations was also checked, while no misconduct was detected in this connection. Furthermore, among other things, compliance with the obligations regarding the security of personal data was checked, while no violation was detected in this connection either. Considering that there was a correction defective condition already during the inspection, no administrative proceedings were initiated with the inspected person to impose remedial measures. Following the detected violation, however, a fine was imposed on the inspected person, which he paid.

Links
Anonymized inspection report (UOOU-02219/21) [PDF, 472 KB]


ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Intermediaries of the sale of electricity and natural gas > Inspection of the legal title for addressing persons by an intermediary of electricity and natural gas sales (UOOU-02219/21)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



