Ms Mairead McGuiness
European Commissioner for Financial services,
financail stability and Capital Markets Union
Mr Didier Reynders
European Commissioner for Justice
by e-mail only

Dear Commissioner McGuinness,
Dear Commissioner Reynders,

Brussels, 19 May 2021
Ref: OUT2021-0088

This letter follows the adoption by the EDPB, on 15 December 2020, of a Statement on the protection
of personal data processed in relation with the prevention of the use of the financial system for the
purposes  of  money  laundering  and  terrorist  financing1,  as  well  the  adoption  by  the  European
Commission of an Action Plan2 for a comprehensive Union policy on preventing money laundering and
terrorist financing and the launch of a public consultation3 in May 2020.

The Commission aims to present new legislative proposals in 2021, inter alia, establishing a single
rulebook on these topics (i.e. a Regulation or a more detailed revised Directive), ensuring EU level
supervision  (either  by  granting  new  powers  to  an  existing  EU  Agency  or  by  establishing  a  new
dedicated body), and creating a support and coordination mechanism for Financial Intelligence Units.

The core purpose and function of the AML Directives and their subsequent transposition into EU
member  state  domestic  laws  are  for…. “the  prevention  of  the  use  of  the  financial  system  for  the
purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing”. It is important to keep this statement in mind
when  considering  the  data protection  implications  of  AML  laws,  because  the  key  method  for
monitoring AML is to follow the monetary transactions in order to detect suspicious money flows.

for

the  purposes  of  money 

1 Statement on the protection of personal data processed in relation with the prevention of the use of the
financial  system 
financing,  available  at
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_statement_20201215_aml_actionplan_en.pdf.
2 Action plan for a comprehensive Union policy on preventing money laundering and terrorism financing, 7 May
2020,  available  at https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/200507-anti-money-laundering-terrorism-financing-
action-plan_en.
3 The  consultation  can  be  accessed at: https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-
say/initiatives/12176-Action-Plan-on-anti-money-laundering/public-consultation.

laundering  and 

terrorist 

Considering  that  the  EDPB,  and  before  it  the  Article  29  Working  Party,  has  repeatedly  noted  the
privacy and data protection challenges related to the AML-CFT framework4, the EDPB wish to advise
the Commission on this subject matter before the presentation of the legislative proposals, pursuant
to Article 70 GDPR. Indeed, a fair balance has to be struck between the interest to prevent money
laundering and terrorist financing, on the one hand, and the interests underlying the fundamental
rights to data protection and privacy, on the other.

Furthermore, the EDPB recommends the Commission to include specific provisions in the upcoming
legislative proposals in order to specify the application of the GDPR in the context of the AML-CFT
legal framework, pursuant to Article 6 (3) of the GDPR. The EDPB notes that the current AML-CFT
legislation already contains a provision on the purpose limitation principle5, which effectivity is crucial
and  should  be  carefully  assessed  by  authorities.  To  promote  compliance  and  create  more  legal
certainty  for  obliged  entities,  the EDPB recommends  that  the  new  AML-CFT  instruments  contain
specific provisions with regard to the general conditions governing the lawfulness of processing by
obliged entities and the personal data that is provided by third parties (see section 3 below); the types
of data which are subject to the processing of personal data in the context of AML-CFT obligations;
the data subjects concerned; the entities to, and the purposes for which the personal data may be
disclosed; the specifications of storage periods, and processing operations and processing procedures,
including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing.

Moreover, the EDPB recommends the inclusion in the legislative proposals of appropriate safeguards
to ensure the respect of the data protection by design and by default obligations in the AML-CFT
framework pursuant to Article 25 GDPR, including through techniques such as data avoidance (i.e. to
avoid processing personal data altogether when this is possible for the relevant purpose), separation
(i.e. to separate the processing of personal data as much as possible), abstraction (i.e. to limit as much
as possible the detail in which personal data are processed) and security measures such as access
restriction, obfuscation (i.e. to make data incomprehensible), encryption or dissociation of personal
data (i.e. to break the link and the correlation between events, persons and data)6.

Additionally, the EDPB recalls that the following personal data protection principles are of utmost, and
equal, importance in the AML-CFT context. They should be taken into account, at each stage, to ensure
that  the  anti-money  laundering  measures  are  compatible  with  the  rights  to  privacy  and  data
protection enshrined in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.

1. Proportionality and efficient risk-based approach

at

available 

financing, 

4 See for instance Opinion 14/2011 on data protection issues related to the prevention of money laundering and
terrorist 
https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2011/wp186_en.pdf.
5 See Article 41(2) of the Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015
on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing.
6 See  EDPB Guidelines4/2019 on  Article  25 Data  Protection  by  Design  and  by  Default,  available  at  :
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_201904_dataprotection_by_design_an
d_by_default_v2.0_en.pdf.  See  also Jaap-Henk  Hoepman, Privacy  design  strategies,  January  27,  2020. pds-
booklet.pdf (ru.nl)

2

The  EDPB  recalls  that,  pursuant  to  Articles  7  and  8  of  the  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights  of  the
European Union as interpreted by the case law of the European Union, the AML-CFT framework shall
respect the principles of necessity and proportionality. It implies that different cases should be treated
differently, proportionately to their relevant differences.

Pursuant  to  Article  52  of  the  Charter,  any  limitation  on  the  exercise  of  the  rights  and  freedoms
recognised by this Charter must be provided for by law and respect the essence of those rights and
freedoms.  Subject  to  the  principle  of  proportionality,  limitations  may  be  made  only  if  they  are
necessary and genuinely meet objectives of general interest recognised by the Union or the need to
protect the rights and freedoms of others7. This means that legislative measures that limit the right to
privacy and data protection have to be specific in order to correspond to objectives of general interest
pursued and should not constitute disproportionate and unreasonable interference undermining the
substance of those rights.8

The EDPB highlights that the GDPR is the general data protection framework, and does not contain
sector specific data protection rules; therefore, for specific areas, it is important that the legislator
lays down these specific data protection rules in the law in accordance with Article 6(3) of the GDPR.

Under the AML-CFT legislation, obliged entities must identify and report suspicious transactions, that
is, the situations where the financial system could be used to launder the proceeds of crimes or to
fund terrorist activity. This has proven difficult to do, as the standard for ensuring that the transaction
is legitimate is based on a reasonable risk-based approach9, which is a standard that is not clearly
enough quantified or defined in legislation or through guidance from regulatory bodies. Consequently,
the monitoring of financial transactions produces a large quantity of false positive alarms, where the
transaction  is  not  associated  with  money  laundering  or  terrorist  financing  and  therefore it is  not
reported to the FIU.

The  Board  therefore  recommends that  the  specifics  as  to  what  the  obliged  entities  should  be
monitoring should be clearly defined and guidance provided as to what exactly is required from a
reasonable risk-based approach.

Furthermore, the EDPB recommends that the trigger events as to when further investigation should
occur,  should  be  distinct and  clear  so  as,  to  avoid  any  disproportionate  and therefore  unlawful
processing of personal data of any individual.

Moreover, the  processing  operations carried  out  by  the  AML  officers of  obliged  entities, when
suspicious financial or monetary transactions are detected and require further investigation as to the
individuals  concerned, should  be  accompanied by  rigorous  safeguards  from  a  data  protection
perspective. It is important to state that it should not be a “one size fits all” approach as the scrutiny
of  an  individual's  financial  movements should  only really  happen  where  there  is  suspicious
transactions  or  activity  occurring.  Otherwise,  if such  close  individual  scrutiny occurred  on  all

7 See also Article 23 GDPR and the EDPB Guidelines 10/2020 on restrictions under Article 23 GDPR.
8 See ECJ judgement of 13 April 2000, Case C-292/87, para. 45.
9 See Article 18(2) of the Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015
on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing.

3

individuals  in  the  customer  databases  of  obliged  entities,  there  could  be  unnecessary  and
disproportionate  processing  of  their  personal  data  and  probably  not  proportionate  under  data
protection laws and possibly ultra vires to the legal requirements under AML-CFT.

Moreover, concerning Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD), it is important that obliged entities establish
clear and transparent criteria of the individuals following into such category. Indeed, the EDD involves
inter alia, the request and review by the obliged entity of extensive information about the individual
falling within this process, as well as multiple person access to the data (i.e. before establishing a
business relationship, approval from the obliged entity's senior manager is required in line with Article
19 of the AML D4). The Board therefore recommends that the parameters as to when EDD occurs are
strict so as to avoid disproportionate and therefore excessive processing of personal data.

2. Data minimisation

Pursuant to the data minimization principle provided by Article 5(1) (c) of the GDPR, obliged entities
must process only the personal data that are necessary to comply with the AML-CFT framework.

The  EDPB therefore  recommends  that  the  AML-CFT  legislation  specify  what  is  necessary  and
proportionate to comply with its obligations. From a data protection perspective, it is crucial to insert
language in every AML obligation that clarifies whether the personal data necessary to comply with a
specific obligation should (only) be collected from the data subject or whether other sources (e.g. third
party) can/must be used (public / non-public). It is also necessary to specify whether or not and, if yes,
which types of special categories of personal data and/or personal data relating to criminal convictions
and offences can/must be processed to comply with that specific obligation.

Additionally, defensive behaviour of obliged entities – which leads them to send large quantities of
non-material suspicions, generating a high number of false positive reports – should be avoided. The
EDPB recommends  that  the  new  AML-CFT  legislation  explicitly  contain  requirements  that  only
accurate  and  relevant  data  can  be  used  for  reports.  These  requirements  should  also  specifically
prohibit  the  inclusion  of  personal  data  relating  to  criminal  convictions  and  offenses  that  are  not
connected to AML-CFT.

3. Data accuracy

The accuracy and reliability of data is an important aspect, not only from a data protection perspective
as enshrined in Article 5(1) (d) of the GDPR, but also for the effectiveness of AML-CFT obligations.
Therefore, the EDPB recommends that the AML-CFT legislation states that personal data processed by
obliged  entities  shall  be  accurate,  reliable,  and  up  to  date  in  order  to  comply  with  the  AML-CFT
obligations.

The  EDPB  observes  that  the  applicable  AML-CFT  measures  include  very  broad  and  far-reaching
obligations  on  financial  services  providers  and  other  obliged  entities  to  identify  and  know  their

4

customers,  to  monitor  transactions  undertaken  using  their  services,  and  to  report  any  suspicious
transactions10.

The Board therefore recommends to include a legal obligation in the coming legislative proposals for
obliged entities to implement appropriate data protection policies with regard to the processing of
personal data for AML-CFT purposes, within the meaning of Article 24(2) of the GDPR, as this would
be appropriate and proportionate in relation to the processing activities that take place in this context,
considering their nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risks of varying
likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons. The Board also recommends to
specify  that  these  policies  shall  include  the  collection  of  personal  data  from  third  parties  whose
services  are  used  or  the  processing  by  third  parties  to  whom  certain  processing  activities  are
outsourced.

More specifically,  obliged  entities  are  increasingly  dependent  on  external  sources  known  as
“watchlists”, which are provided by third parties. These “watchlists” are commonly used by obliged
entities to screen their databases and verify relevant information about their clients, in order to fulfil
their legal obligations, and notably to assess the risk of the business relationship. The providers of
these “watchlists” are in general controllers under the GDPR and do not fall under the current AML-
CFT legislation. Nevertheless, the data processing performed in the context of these watchlists raise
serious concerns, considering the quantity and sensitive nature of personal data they process which
could lead to serious damage to the rights and freedoms of data subjects. Moreover, the fact that
obliged entities make use of these databases provided by third parties does not exempt them from
ensuring the accuracy of personal data that they process.

The EDPB therefore recommends to seize to create a specific legal framework for “watchlists” and, in
particular,  to  clarify  the  responsibilities  between  obliged  entities  and  the  watchlists  providers
regarding GDPR obligations, to provide guarantees especially regarding the compilation of sensitive
data, as well as to regulate the consultation of those lists by obliged entities and specify how data
subject rights are respected in this context. .

4. Storage limitation

Pursuant to Article 5(1) (e) of the GDPR, all personal data processed for AML-CFT purposes must not
be retained unnecessarily and indiscriminately. The EDPB therefore recommends that the AML-CFT
legislation specify which personal data has to be retained and for how long, taking into account the
necessity11 and proportionality12 principles. For instance, a distinction in the applicable storage period
could be made between, on the one hand, data related to executed or intended transactions which

and 

terrorist 

10 See Statement  on  the  protection  of  personal  data  processed  in  relation  with  the  prevention  of  money
laundering 
at:
available
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_statement_20201215_aml_actionplan_en.pdf.
11 See EDPS, Assessing the necessity of measures that limit the fundamental right to the protection of personal
data: A Toolkit, 11 April 2017.
12 See EDPS, Assessing the proportionality of measures that limit the fundamental rights to privacy and to the
protection of personal data, 19 December 2019

15/12/2020, 

financing, 

adopted 

on 

5

have been deemed suspicious and reported to the financial intelligence unit and, on the other hand,
data related to unsuspicious transactions.

5. Processing of special categories of personal data and processing of personal data relating to

criminal convictions and offences

Processing of special categories of personal data, within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR, and
processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offenses, are prohibited except if one
of the exceptions provided by the GDPR applies, or, in the case of personal data regarding criminal
convictions and offences, the processing shall be laid down in specific legal provisions. In the AML-CFT
context, the only applicable derogation to the processing of special categories of personal data is the
one provided by Article 9(2) (g) of the GDPR, which allows such processing if it is necessary for reasons
of substantial public interest, on the basis of Union or Member State law which shall be proportionate
to the aim pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide for suitable and
specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject. Similarly,
Article 10 of the GDPR required that processing of personal data relating to criminal conviction and
offences  by  obliged  entities  should  be  authorised  by  Union  or  Member State  law  providing  for
appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects

The EDPB noticed that there are currently wide differences between Member States laws regarding
the provision of such derogations and safeguards. Therefore, the EDPB considers that there is a need
for harmonization to enhance both the legal certainty and the EU citizens’ right to data protection.

In addition, according to Articles 9(2) (g) any law allowing the processing of the special categories of
personal data shall contain suitable and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and
the interests of the data subject. According to Article 10 of the GDPR, personal data regarding criminal
convictions and offenses, shall be carried out only under the control of official authority or when the
processing is authorised by Union or Member State law providing for appropriate safeguards for the
rights and freedoms of data subjects. Therefore, the GDPR requires that the legislator specifies the
general  data  protections  principles  of  the  GDPR  into  these  new  AML-CFT  instruments.  Indeed,
appropriate and specific safeguards are necessary to comply with the GPDR. For instance, regarding
the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offenses, it could be provided that
obliged entities should only be allowed to process criminal convictions and offences related to money
laundering and terrorist financing handed down in countries where the rule of law, and especially the
presumption  of  innocence,  the  right  of  defence  and  right  of  a  fair  trial  are  respected. Another
appropriate safeguard could be to ensure the training and expertise of staff that deal with sensitive
personal data in the context of AML-CFT obligations. All safeguards should be accompanied by serious
corrective measures, including penalties, for the controller (obliged entity or FIU as the case may be)
in case of non-compliance.

6.

Independent supervisory authorities

To ensure the application of the data protection principles in the AML-CFT context, a cooperation
between AML-CFT supervisory authorities and data protection authorities should be laid down in the
texts.  The  EDPB  therefore  recommends  to  specify  in  the  AML-CFT  framework  that  the  European
Commission  and  the  European  supervisory  authorities  should  consult  the  EDPB  prior  enacting

6

delegated act, guidelines or recommendations involving additional processing of personal data or
affecting  the  right  to  data  protection. Similarly,
in  those  cases, the  Member  States  AML-CFT
competent authorities should consult the national data protection authorities.

Conclusion

To conclude, the EDPB urges the European Commission to propose specific provisions in the future
AML-CFT legal framework in order to adapt the application of rules of the GDPR for obliged entities .
If the AML-CFT legislation is not designed in a balanced and proportionate manner, that respects every
individuals’ fundamental rights to data protection, legal uncertainties for obliged entities will continue
to exist and the AML-CFT framework would be vulnerable. Data Protection Authorities will be forced
to use their powers in order to bring the activities of the obliged entities in accordance with the GDPR
through corrective measures.  European  citizens  will  also  likely  exercise  their  right  to  an  effective
remedy before a tribunal, enshrined in the Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the
European Union.

Thus, the EDPB deems crucial to correctly articulate the interplay between the two legal frameworks,
since such articulation is necessary to ensure the compatibility between personal data protection and
the  prevention of  money laundering  and  terrorist  financing.  When  properly  addressed,  the  data
protection principles could, moreover, lead to more efficiency of the AML-CFT framework, excluding
inaccurate personal data from processing operations.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

CC:

Ms Raluca PRUNA, Head of Unit, Unit D.2, DG FISMA

Mr Olivier MICOL, Head of Unit, Unit C.3, DG JUST

7

