
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    11/11/2020
                                Kick-off for student competition on the State Transparency Act - Kugelmann: The earlier you demand transparency, the betterFor students in Rhineland-Palatinate, a competition on the State Transparency Act is taking place for the first time. The title reads: "Students promote transparency". Boys and girls in grades 7 to 13 can take part. From today until May 31, 2021, schoolchildren can send interesting inquiries to government agencies or obtain information on the state’s transparency platform and then contact the state commissioner for the knowledge gained in this way for data protection and freedom of information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate. The most exciting inquiries and the most creative evaluations of the information are rewarded: the winner or the winning class receives 500 euros. The second place(s) get 300 euros and the third place(s) 200 euros. Examples of questions that can be asked within the framework of the State Transparency Act are: How many public WLAN access points have been set up in a city and what bandwidth do they have? What is the paper consumption per student in a city's schools? How many trees have been planted in recent years? Professor Dieter Kugelmann, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, says: "The aim of the state transparency law, which must be applied in full from January 1, 2021, is to grant every citizen access to official information and to environmental information in order to increase the transparency and openness of the administration. This should make it easier for everyone to understand and control government actions and political decisions. Certain prerequisites must be met are not available for inquiries: Everyone, including students, can ask them without giving reasons. Our task is to make the state transparency law more widely known. With the competition, we want to encourage young people to make inquiries and make them aware what government agencies have to tell them: The sooner you insists on the openness of the administration, all the better. The sooner you demand transparency, the better." Within the framework of the competition, the students are free to choose the source from which they obtain the information. This can be, for example, via the website of an authority, via the transparency platform of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate or through an application to a public body for access to information in accordance with the State Transparency Act of Rhineland-Palatinate.If the application is unsuccessful or only partially successful, the state representative can mediate between the requesting students and the requested body.
Further information:- Letters to the students about the competition and FAQs.- Useful information on the application for access to information and on the transparency platform of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate- Transparency platform of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate
                                return
                            



