 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 1/2020 on the Spanish data protection supervisory 
authority  draft  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of 
conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

Adopted on 28 January 2020 

 

 

Adopted 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary of the facts ....................................................................................................................... 4 

ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the ES accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies ..... 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS .......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ................................................................................................................ 6 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST .................................................................................................... 7 

EXPERTISE ......................................................................................................................... 8 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................... 8 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING........................................................................... 9 

COMMUNICATING WITH THE AEPD............................................................................... 10 

CODE REVIEW MECHANISMS ......................................................................................... 10 

LEGAL STATUS ................................................................................................................ 10 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................................................................... 11 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................. 12 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, as last modified 
and adopted on 10 September 2019 
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter  “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its  opinion by: firstly, requesting 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  to  provide  written  guidance  explaining  the 
accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting them to adopt these  requirements in line with 
this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term ‘accreditation’. However, article 
41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. There 
are a number of requirements, which  should  be met in order to  satisfy the competent supervisory 
authority to accredit a monitoring body. Code owners are required to explain and demonstrate how 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

 

3 

Adopted 

their  proposed  monitoring  body  meets  the  requirements  set  out  in  article  41  (2)  to  obtain 
accreditation. 

 (4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The Spanish Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “ES SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 25 October 2019.  

 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure,2 due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Board decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

3. 

 
All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 

2 Version 3, as last modified and adopted on 10 September 2019. 

 

Adopted 

4 

section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

4. 

5. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises.”  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

ES SA to take further action.  

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the ES SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation.  The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the ES accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all  codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

 
The wording in the ES SA’s accreditation requirements is not in line with the terminology used in the 
Guidelines. For the sake of consistency and clarity, the EDPB encourages the ES SA to use the Guidelines 
terminology in the draft accreditation requirements. Examples include: “Accreditation requirements’ 
instead  of  “Accreditation  criteria”  in  the  title,  “code  owners”  instead  of  “code  sponsor  or  code 
promoter”,  “code  members”  instead  of  “supervised  bodies”,  “monitoring  body”  instead  of 

Adopted 

5 

“supervisory body”, “internal body” instead of “inside body”, “establishment [of the monitoring body]” 
instead of “seat [of the monitoring body]”.  The paragraphs concerned are 1, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 2, 3, 3.1, 
3.2, 5.2, 5.3, 6.2, 6.3, 7.1, 8, and 8.2. 

11.  Whereas the Board acknowledges that reference to “should” might be due to the translation of the 
Spanish terms used to express obligation, the Board recommends that the ES SA amends the wording 
throughout the draft accreditation requirements, and replaces it with either “shall” or “must” in order 
to ensure the enforceability of the requirements.  

12. 

The  Board  notes  that  there  is  no  reference  to  the  duration  of  the  accreditation  or  accreditation 
withdrawal  procedures.  Whilst  the  Board  accepts  that  these  areas  fall  into  the  area  of  guidance 
supporting the accreditation requirements, the Board considers them to be important areas in terms 
of ensuring that the whole accreditation process is transparent. Therefore, the Board encourages the 
ES  SA  to  clarify  accreditation  duration  and  withdrawal  procedures  in  supporting  guidance  for  the 
accreditation requirements. 

13. 

 Finally, the Board understands that, unless explicitly stated otherwise, the ES SA draft accreditation 
requirements apply to both internal and external monitoring bodies. 

 

 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

14.  With regard to the introduction of section 1 of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board takes 
note  of  all  the  elements  demonstrating  the  monitoring  body’s  independency  and  impartiality  of 
function in relation to the code members and the profession, industry  or sector to  which the code 
applies. However, there seems to be a contradiction between the third and fourth paragraphs of this 
section. In the third paragraph it is stated that the monitoring body should not have “any dependency 
of any kind (organisational, economic, professional or personal) on the affiliated entity”, which seems 
to exclude the possibility of accrediting internal monitoring bodies on the basis of the fulfillment of 
this  requirements.    At  the  same  time,  in  the  last  paragraph,  there  is  mention  of  cases  where  the 
monitoring body is internal. Therefore, the Board recommends to the ES SA to clarify the relationship 
between  these  two  paragraphs,  and  explain  how  independence  can  be  achieved  by  an  internal 
monitoring  body,  as  well  as  to  redraft  the  third  paragraph  so  that  internal  monitoring  bodies  are 
suitably covered.  

15.  With regard to requirement 1.1, third bullet point, the Board considers that the wording “[...] are being 
supervised [...] by the sponsor of the code of conduct, when the monitoring body is  an inside body” 
seems to weaken the separation between the code owners and the code members on the one hand, 
and the monitoring body on the other. Indeed, according to the Guidelines (paragraph 65, page 22), 
where  an  internal  monitoring  body  is  proposed,  there  should  be  separate  staff  and  management, 
accountability  and  function  from  other  areas  of  the  code  owners’  organisation.  In  addition,  the 
monitoring body, even if it is an internal one, should ensure adequate impartiality and independence 
on the basis of a risk management approach. Consequently, the Board recommends that the ES SA 
deletes the sentence “or by the sponsor of the code of conduct, when the monitoring body is an inside 
body”, or otherwise clarify it, in line with the Guidelines. 

16.  As for the financial requirements (section 1.3 of the ES SA draft accreditation requirements), the Board 
acknowledges  that  monitoring  bodies  should  be  provided  with  the  financial  stability  and  resources 

Adopted 

6 

17. 

18. 

necessary for the effective performance of their tasks. The means by which a monitoring body receives 
financial support should not adversely affect the independence of its task of monitoring compliance of 
a code. The funding of the monitoring body and the transparency of such funding constitute a decisive 
element to assess the independence of the monitoring body. For this reason, the Board recommends 
that the ES SA deletes the phrase “where appropriate” and replaces “should” by “must be” or “have 
to be provided” in section 1.3 of the ES SA draft accreditation requirements. 

Furthermore, section 1.4 of the ES SA draft accreditation requirements expressly refers to the “cases 
where the monitoring body is an inside body [internal body]”. The Board encourages the ES SA to clarify 
that the means of financing would not adversely affect the independence of the internal monitoring 
body.  

The  Board  notes  the  requirement  for  the  monitoring  body  to  provide  a  description  of  resources 
available to it, in order to meet its liabilities as a result of its failure to perform its tasks (section 8.3 of 
the  ES  SA  draft  accreditation  requirements).  However,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  a 
requirement might appear disproportionately burdensome for small and medium entities that might 
be discouraged from applying for accreditation. In this regard, the Board recommends that the ES SA 
softens  the  wording  of  this  section,  referring  to  the  monitoring  body’s  responsibilities  in  a  general 
manner. 

19.  Regarding the publication of the monitoring body’s report of annual activities (section 6.1), the Board 
recommends that, for the sake of clarity, the ES SA specifies the information that is deemed relevant 
for publication, as well as the level of detail of information that needs to be included in such reports.  

20. 

The Board observes that there are no references to accountability as one of four areas in which the 
monitoring body shall demonstrate independence. According to the Opinion 9/2019 on the Austrian 
data  protection  supervisory  authority  draft  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring  body  pursuant  to  article  41  GDPR,  “the  monitoring  body  shall  be  able  to  demonstrate 
“accountability” for its decisions and actions in order to be considered to be independent” (paragraph 
24).  In  this  regard,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  ES  SA  includes  the  obligation  to  demonstrate 
independence in relation to the accountability of the monitoring body. For example, the ES SA should 
clarify  what  kind  of  evidence  is  expected  from  the  monitoring  body,  in  order  to  demonstrate  its 
accountability. This could be accomplished through such things as setting out the roles and decision-
making  framework  and  its  reporting  procedures,  and  by  setting  up  policies  to  increase  awareness 
among the staff about the governance structures and the procedures in place. 

 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

21. 

 
The Board takes note of all the requirements included in the ES SA accreditation requirements in order 
for the monitoring body to demonstrate that the exercise of its tasks and duties does not result in a 
conflict of interest. However, the introduction under section 2 does not provide enough clarity as to 
which  situations  may  result  in  a  conflict  of  interest.  The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that,  for  practical 
reasons, examples of cases where a conflict of interest could arise might be helpful. An example of a 
conflict of interest situation would be the case where personnel conducting audits or making decisions 
on  behalf  of  a  monitoring  body  had  previously  worked  for  the  code  owner,  or  for  any  of  the 

Adopted 

7 

organisations adhering to the code. Therefore, the Board encourages the ES SA to add some examples, 
similar to the one provided in this paragraph. 

  EXPERTISE 

22. 

 
Section 3 of the ES SA accreditation requirements refers to the “promoters of the code of conduct” and 
“sponsor  of  the  code”  (understood  as  code  owners)  and  the  monitoring  body,  who  need  to 
demonstrate that “the persons in charge of taking decisions have the necessary knowledge in relation 
to  data  protection  legislation  and  practice  [...]”.  The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  reference  to  the 
obligation  of  the  code  owners  to  demonstrate  the  expertise  of  the  monitoring  body  could  be 
misleading.  Indeed,  it  might  be  appropriate  in  case  of  an  internal  monitoring  body  applying  for 
accreditation, whereas in the case of an external monitoring body, it would be the body itself, applying 
for accreditation, that would need to demonstrate its expertise. Therefore, the Board encourages the 
ES SA to delete the phrases “promoters of the code of conduct” and “sponsor of the code” in order to 
refer to both internal and external monitoring bodies.  

23. 

Furthermore,  the  Board  encourages  the  ES  SA  to  align  the  first  paragraph  of  this  section  to  the 
Guidelines,  by  including  reference  to the  required  expertise  in  “[...]  data  protection  legislation  and 
practice in the processing activities of the sector [...]”. Finally, the Board encourages the ES SA to clarify 
the  third  paragraph  of  this  section  by  indicating  that  the  requirement  for  expertise  applies  to  the 
monitoring body as a whole and not to every staff member. 

24.  As required by the Guidelines, every code must fulfil the monitoring mechanism criteria (in section 6.4 
of  the  Guidelines),  by  demonstrating  “why  their  proposals  for  monitoring  are  appropriate  and 
operationally  feasible”  (paragraph  41,  page  17  of  the  Guidelines).  In  this  context,  all  codes  with 
monitoring  bodies  will  need  to  explain  the  necessary  expertise  level  for  their  monitoring  bodies  in 
order to deliver the code’s monitoring activities effectively.  Section 3.1 of the ES SA draft accreditation 
requirements refers to the “means to demonstrate the necessary skill, knowledge and experience”. A 
reference to the level of experience as required by the code itself is missing. The Board encourages the 
ES SA to add examples so that the data protection expertise, experience and knowledge required, are 
reflected in the Code itself.  

25. 

Section 3.2 of the ES SA draft accreditation requirements provides only a general description of the 
expertise  requirements.    The  Board  encourages  the  ES  SA  to  provide  a  detailed  description  of  the 
expertise requirements and clarify whether the requirements set in paragraph 69 of the Guidelines are 
covered.  

26. 

Finally, in order for these requirements to be actual requirements, rather than guidance, the Board 
encourages the ES SA redraft all three requirements to start with “the monitoring body shall…”. 

 

 

 

 ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

27. 

The  Board  notes  that  requirement  5.2  of  the  ES  SA  accreditation  requirements  states  that  the 
complaint  handling  procedure  will  be  transparent  and  easily  accessible  to  the  public.  The  Board 
acknowledges that this wording is based on the Guidelines. Nonetheless, the Board is of the opinion 
that, for the sake of clarity, the requirements should specify the meaning of “public” and whether it 
also includes code members. Therefore, the Board encourages the ES SA to amend requirement 5.2 
accordingly. 

Adopted 

8 

28. 

The Board observes that among the factors to consider when assessing the details of the procedures 
aiming  at  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  code  members  with  the  code  of  conduct  (section  4.1, 
second  bullet  point  of  the  ES  SA  draft  accreditation  requirements)  the  requirement  refers  to  “the 
number of members”. It is unclear, how the assessment of the ES SA could be based on this criterion, 
considering that the numbers of the code members might not be known when the monitoring body 
applies  for  accreditation  and  might  change  considerably  after  the  accreditation  has  been  granted. 
Among the said factors, there is also a reference to “the number of complaints received”. Whereas the 
number of complaints could be relevant, the focus thereof is probably more relevant as a criterion, but 
it  is  not  included.  Furthermore,  the  Board  considers  that  other  elements,  such  as  the  focus  of  the 
complaints, might have a greater significance. In this regard, the Board encourages the ES SA to replace 
the  term  “the  number  of  members”  with  “expected  number  and  size  of  members”  and  to  delete 
reference to the “number” of complaints, and keep it more general, such as “the received complaints”.  

 

 
 

 TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

29.  Regarding  the  complaints  about  code  members  (section  5.2  of  the  ES  SA  draft  accreditation 
requirements), the Board acknowledges that the complaints handling process requirements should be 
set at a high level and reference reasonable time frames for answering complaints. In this regard, the 
Board  notes  that  the  ES  SA  draft  accreditation  requirements  state  that  the  complaints  procedure 
should be resolved “within a reasonable period of time not exceeding three (3) months”. In the event 
that,  by  the  term  “resolve”,  the  ES  SA  refers  to  the  final  decision  of  the  investigation,  the  Board 
recommends the ES SA to take a more flexible approach, by stating that the monitoring body will have 
to provide the complainant with progress reports or the outcome within a reasonable timeframe, such 
as three months. If the ES SA refers to another kind of resolve, different from the final decision of the 
investigation, the Board recommends the ES SA to clarify what kind of information it is referring to.  

30. 

31. 

Furthermore,  the  Board  takes  note  of  the  fact  that  the  three  months  deadline  could  be  extended 
where necessary, considering the size of the company under investigation, as well as the difficulty of 
the investigation.  

The Board observes that section 5.2, fifth bullet point of the ES SA draft accreditation requirements 
only  refers  to  “penalties”.  In  the  Board’s  opinion,  this  requirement  seems  to  restrict the  margin  of 
manoeuver of the monitoring body with regard to the kind of measures it can apply. In addition, those 
measures must be determined in the code of conduct, as per article 40(4) GDPR. The Board considers 
that a more comprehensive wording would include reference to remedies and corrective measures 
and encourages the ES SA to replace “penalties” with “sanctions”. Those corrective measures must be 
determined in the code of conduct, as per article 40(4) GDPR.  Therefore, for the sake of clarity, the 
Board recommends the ES SA to add a reference to the list of sanctions set out in the code of conduct 
in cases of infringements of the code by a controller or processor adhering to it. 

32. 

The Board observes that the ES SA decides, for the purpose of transparency of the complaints handling 
procedure, to require that the monitoring body publishes  the decisions taken in the context of the 
complaint handling procedure (section 5.2). Publication of final decisions could have the same effect 
of an accessory sanction for the code member to which the decision is addressed. However, the Board 
acknowledges  that  general  information  on  the  actions  taken  by  the  monitoring  body  in  case  of 

Adopted 

9 

infringement of the code of conduct would enhance transparency.  Thus, for the sake of clarity, the 
Board recommends that the ES SA specifies the kind of relevant information that the monitoring body 
is obliged to publish.  For example, the monitoring body could publish, on a regular basis, statistical 
data with the result of the monitoring activities, such as the number of complaints received, the type 
of infringements and the corrective measures issued.  

 

  COMMUNICATING WITH THE AEPD 
  

33. 

The  Board  observes  that  there  is  no  reference  to  a  deadline  by  which  the  monitoring  body  should 
inform  the  AEPD  in  the  event  of  a  substantial  change  (section  6.2  of  the  ES  SA  draft  accreditation 
requirements). Therefore, the Board recommends that the ES SA rephrases the requirement to cover 
appropriate time expectations for the communication to the AEPD. For example, a substantial change 
shall be communicated to the ES SA “without undue delay”. Furthermore, the “scope of accreditation” 
is amongst the substantial changes that shall be reported to the SA (section 6.2, fourth bullet point). 
The Board considers this inclusion misleading, since the monitoring body cannot change the scope of 
the accreditation. Therefore, the Board recommends that the ES SA deletes reference to the scope of 
accreditation or, alternatively, clarify the meaning thereof.  

34. 

 The Board observes that section 6.3 of the ES SA accreditation requirements refers to the elements 
that communication to the AEPD should contain; the reasons for the decision as well as the criteria on 
which  the  suspension  is  based.  For  reasons  of  clarity,  the  Board  recommends  that  reference  to 
“exclusion” is added as well.   

 

 
 

 CODE REVIEW MECHANISMS 

35. 

The Board considers that the requirements under section 7.1 appear to be too strict and might lead to 
excessive standards for the monitoring body, especially the third and fourth bullet points. It should be 
sufficient that the monitoring body shall inform the code owner and recommend that the relevant 
parts of the code are revised in accordance with the evaluation. In addition, this requirement should 
envisage the possibility that the information listed in it is not provided to the code owner, but to any 
other entity referred to in the code of conduct, in order to give some margin of manoeuvre to the code 
owners in designing the procedure for assessing the necessity of a revision of the code. In this regard, 
the  Board  encourages  the  ES  SA  to  rephrase  the  last  two  bullet  points,  so  that  they  appear  less 
restrictive, as well  as include information to  remedy the identified shortcomings. Furthermore, the 
Board  considers  that  more  flexibility  should  be  allowed,  and  encourages  the  ES  SA  to  take  into 
consideration that the information listed in the requirement may be not be provided to either the code 
owner,  or  to  any  other  entity  referred  to  in  the  code  of  conduct  and  add  the  above-mentioned 
reference. 

 

 LEGAL STATUS 

 
 

36. 

Section 8.1 of the ES SA draft accreditation requirements includes reference to the legal personality of 
the monitoring body; however, an internal monitoring body is unlikely to have a legal personality. This 

10 

Adopted 

requirement  would  in  fact  impede  an  internal  monitoring  body  from  applying  for  accreditation. 
Consequently, the Board recommends to the ES SA to delete reference to the  “legal personality” in 
order to clarify that internal monitoring bodies are not excluded. 

37. 

Finally,  the  Board  notes  that  the  ES  SA’s  requirements  or  explanatory  notes  do  not  reference 
subcontracting, leaving this area open for monitoring bodies applying for accreditation to decide upon. 
The  Board  recommends  that  ES  SA  clarifies  whether  the  monitoring  body  may  have  recourse  to 
subcontractors  and  on  which  terms  and  conditions  and  that these  are  reflected  in  the  explanatory 
notes  or  ordinance  accordingly.  If  ES  SA  indicates  that  subcontracting  is  allowed,  the  Board 
recommends  that  the  ES  SA  indicates,  in  the  requirements,  that  the  obligations  applicable  to  the 
monitoring body are applicable in the same way to subcontractors.   

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

38. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Spanish Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

39.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the ES SA: 

     1. replaces “should” with “shall” or “must” throughout the text, in order to ensure the enforceability    

of the requirements. 

40.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the ES SA: 

1.  clarifies  and  explains  how  independence  can  be  achieved  by  an  internal  monitoring  body  in 
section 1; 

      2. deletes the following sentence “or by the sponsor of the code of conduct, when the monitoring 
body is an inside body” from requirement 1.1, third bullet point, or otherwise clarify it, so that the 
requirements of independence and impartiality, as set in the Guidelines, are met; 

3. adjusts the wording in requirement 1.3, in order to ensure that the funding of the monitoring 
body does not affect its independency; 

4. softens the wording of requirement 8.3, referring to the monitoring body’s responsibilities in a    
general manner so that this requirement appear less burdensome for small and medium entities 
applying for accreditation; 

5.  specifies  which  information  of  the  monitoring  body’s  report  on  annual  activities  is  deemed 
relevant for publication, as well as the level of detail of information that needs to be included in 
such reports; 

6.  includes  the  obligation  to  demonstrate  independence  in  relation  to  the  accountability  of  the 
monitoring body.  

41.  Regarding transparent complaint handling the Board recommends that the ES SA: 

1.  adopts  a  more  flexible  approach  in  requirement  5.2,  regarding  the  timeline  for  resolving 
complaints; 

2. includes reference to remedies and corrective measures in requirement 5.2; 

Adopted 

11 

3. specifies the kind of  relevant information that the monitoring body is obliged to publish with 
regards to the final decisions adopted.  

42.  Regarding communication with the AEPD  the Board recommends that the ES SA: 

1.  rephrases  requirement  6.2  in  order  to  cover  appropriate  time  expectations  for  the 
communication to the AEPD; 

2. deletes reference to the scope of accreditation or, alternatively, clarify the meaning thereof in 
requirement 6.2, fourth bullet point;  

3. adds reference to “exclusion” in requirement 6.3, for reasons of clarity. 

43.  Regarding legal status the Board recommends that the ES SA: 

1. deletes reference to the “legal personality” in requirement 8.1 in order to clarify that internal 
monitoring bodies are not excluded; 

2. clarifies whether the monitoring body may have recourse to subcontractors and on which terms 
and  conditions  and  that  these  are  reflected  in  the  requirements  or  explanatory  notes.  If 
subcontracting is allowed, amend the requirements or explanatory notes, so that the obligations 
applicable to the monitoring body are applicable in the same way to subcontractors. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

44. 

This opinion is addressed to the  Spanish supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

45.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by 
electronic means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its 
draft decision. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does 
not intend to follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does 
not intend to follow this opinion, in whole or in part. The supervisory authority shall communicate the 
final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, which have been subject to the 
consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

12 

