 

Olivier Micol 

 

 

 

Head of Unit European Commission 
DG for Justice and Consumers 
Unit C.3 – Data protection 
Belgium 
 

 

Dear M. Micol,  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brussels, 14 April 2020 

Ref: OUT2020-0028  

Thank you very much for liaising and seeking the advice of the EDPB on the draft Guidance on apps 
supporting the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Indeed, the EDPB has been keen to work fast on this 
issue by publishing a statement on March 19th and plans to issue additional guidance next week on 
tracing,  scientific  research  and  teleworking.  Some  National  Supervisory  Authorities  are  also 
developing guidelines at national level to advise their governments and telecoms operators on the 
best  way  to  comply  with  data  protection  rules.  The  EDPB  welcomes  the Commission’s  initiative  in 
developing a pan-European and coordinated approach, where mobile applications may become one 
of the proposed measures to empower individuals in the response to fight the pandemic. The EDPB 
has  repeatedly  stated  that  the  implementation  of  data  protection  principles  and  the  respect  of 
fundamental rights and freedoms is not only a legal obligation, but also a requirement to reinforce the 
effectiveness of any  data-based initiatives for combating the spread of the COVID-19 virus and  for 
informing de-escalation strategies. 

The  EDPB  is  aware  that  no  one-size-fits-all  solution  applies  to  the  matter  at  stake,  and  that  the 
available options require many factors to be considered, including the fact that individuals’ health may 
be impacted. This is why envisaged technical solutions need to be examined in detail, on a case-by-
case basis. In addition, the EDPB believes that it is a step in the right direction to highlight the essential 
need to consult with data protection authorities to ensure that personal data is processed lawfully, 
respecting the rights of the individuals, in accordance with data protection law.  

The  development  of  the  apps  should  be  made  in  an  accountable  way,  documenting  with  a  data 
protection  impact  assessment  all  the  implemented  privacy  by  design  and  privacy  by  default 
mechanisms, and the source code should be made publicly available for the widest possible scrutiny 
by the scientific community. 

At this stage, and on the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the EDPB can only 
focus on the overall goal of the envisaged apps, to verify whether they are in line with data protection 
principles,  and  on  the  mechanisms  provided  for  the  exercise  of  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the 
population.  Doing  so,  the  EDPB  believes  that  the  Commission  will  draw  elements  for  a  further 
reflection in order to adjust, where needed, the choices represented in the document, or to explore 

 

1 

 

new  technical  options.    In  any  case,  the  EDPB  will  investigate  further  this  issue  in  its  upcoming 
guidelines. 

In this answer, the EDPB would like to address specifically the use of apps for the contact tracing and 
warning functionality, because this is where increased attention must be paid in order to minimise 
interferences with private life while still allowing data processing with the goal of preserving public 
health. 

further 

illustrating  the 

In the case where such applications would prove relevant in the implementation of some public health 
policy, they may only achieve their maximum efficiency if used by the largest possible share of the 
population,  in  a  collective  effort  to  fight  the  virus.  Any  functional  heterogeneity,  lack  of 
interoperability or even individual difference in the use of the app may create negative externalities 
on  others,  resulting  in  a  reduced  sanitary  effect.  The  EDPB  strongly  supports  the  Commission’s 
proposal for a voluntary adoption of such apps, a choice that should be made by individuals as a token 
of  collective  responsibility.  It  should  be  pointed  out  that  voluntary  adoption  is  associated  with 
individual  trust,  thus 
importance  of  data  protection  principles.  
 
The EDPB notes that the mere fact that the use of the contact tracing takes place on a voluntary basis, 
does not mean that the processing of personal data by public authorities necessarily be based on the 
consent. When public authorities provide a service, based on a mandate assigned by and in line with 
requirements laid down in law, it appears that the most relevant legal basis for the processing is the 
necessity for the performance of a task for public interest.  The enactment of national laws, promoting 
the voluntary use of the app without any negative consequence for the individuals not using it, could 
be  a  legal  basis  for  the  use  of  the  apps.  Such  legislative  interventions  should  accordingly  not  be 
intended as a means to push for compulsory adoption, and the individuals should be free to install 
and  uninstall  the  app  at  will.  These  laws  could  be  accompanied  by  appropriate  communications 
activities at national level to promote such tools, with awareness-raising campaigns and assistance to 
minors,  to  the  impaired,  or  to  less  skilled  or  educated  parts  of  the  population,  in  order  to  avoid 
scattered adoption, or blurred knowledge of the evolution of the epidemics and any potential health 
divide. Indeed, any lack of data, due to individuals’ inattentive use of the app or even to battery fault 
of the device may seriously undermine the overall public usefulness of these instruments. 
 
Contact tracing apps do not require location tracking of individuals users. Their goal is not to follow 
the movements of individuals or to enforce prescriptions. The main function of such apps is to discover 
events (contacts with positive persons), which are only likely and for the majority of users may not 
even  happen,  especially  in  the  de-escalation  phase.  Collecting  an  individual’s  movements  in  the 
context of contact tracing apps would violate the principle of data minimisation. In addition, doing so 
would create major security and privacy risks. 

Health authorities and scientists are well placed to identify what constitutes an event to be shared if, 
where  and  when  it  happens,  under  a  strict  necessity  test  as  required  by  the  law,  and  they  should 
define some of the functional requirements of the app. Another debated issue is the storage of such 
events. Two main options are envisaged: local data storage within individuals’ devices, or centralised 

 

2 

 

storage. The EDPB is of the opinion that both can be valid alternatives, provided that adequate security 
measures are in place, and that different entities may also be considered as controllers depending on 
the  ultimate  objective  of  the  app  (e.g.  the  controller  and  data  processed  may  be  different  if  the 
objective is to provide in-app information or to contact the person on the phone, for instance). In any 
case, the EDPB wants to underline that the decentralised solution is more in line with the minimisation 
principle. 

Finally,  these  apps  are  not  social  platforms  for  spreading  social  alarm  or  giving  rise  to  any  sort  of 
stigmatisation. In fact, they should be tools for empowering people to do their part. Quoting the draft 
Guidance, their sole objective is “for public health authorities to identify the persons that have been in 
contact with a person infected by COVID-19 and ask him/her to self-quarantine, rapidly test them, as 
well as to provide advice on next steps, if relevant, including what to do if developing symptoms”. The 
quality of the processed data is of paramount importance in this effort. The steps that need to be 
taken “to identify the persons that have been in contact with a person infected by COVID-19” are not 
easy or straightforward. Informing a person, via an in-app notification, may be done in such a way that 
the  application  processes  only  random  pseudonyms.  In  addition,  a  mechanism  should  ensure  that 
whenever a person is declared as COVID-positive, the information entered in the app is correct, since 
this may trigger notifications to other people concerning the fact that they have been exposed. Such 
mechanism could be based, for instance, on a one-time code that can be scanned by the person when 
the result of a test is given to him/her. Every individual contact must be performed only by health 
authorities after assessing strong data evidence, with the least amount of inference. In addition, the 
role of the “contact list of the person owning the device”, as envisaged in the Guidance, should be 
clarified by the Commission. 

Algorithms used in contact tracing apps should work under the strict supervision of qualified personnel 
in order to limit the occurrence of any false positives and negatives, and by no means the task “to 
provide advice on next steps” should be fully automated. It is advisable that a call-back mechanism is 
put  in  place  where  the  person  is  given  a  telephone  number  or  a  contact  channel  to  get  more 
information  from  a  human  agent.  Also,  in  order  to  avoid  stigmatisation,  no  potential  identifying 
element of any other data subject should be part of this “advice”, nor should the use of the app, or 
part of it (like dashboards, configuration settings etc.), allow the re-identification of any other persons, 
infected by COVID-19 or not. The EDPB strongly suggests not to store any directly identifying data in 
users’ device and that such data be in any case deleted as soon as possible. 

The EDPB strongly supports the concept in the Recommendations that once this crisis is over, such 
emergency system should not remain in use, and as a general rule, the collected data should be erased 
or anonymised. 

Finally, the EDPB and its Members, in charge of advising and ensuring the correct application of the 
GDPR and the e-Privacy Directive, should be fully involved in the whole process of elaboration and 
implementation  of  these  measures.  The  EDPB  recalls  that  it  intends  to  publish  Guidelines  in  the 
upcoming days on geolocation and other tracing tools in the context of the COVID-19 out-break. 

 

3 

 

In all circumstances, the EDPB remains available to provide further guidance to the EU institutions and 
to all stakeholders involved in the development and use of those mobile apps for the fight against 
COVID-19. 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

