State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt

dr Harold von Bose

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

press release

dated March 26, 2019

 

 

Entry into the new data protection law largely successful -

Data protection still has to become part of everyday routine –

the digital society needs humane data protection

 

 

 

Today, the state commissioner for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt, Dr. Harold from

Bose, his XV. Activity report presented. This report covers the period from

May 6, 2018 to December 31, 2018. The activity report was submitted to the state parliament for

tion (LT-Drs. 7/4095).

 

The report is an order from the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

GMO) fulfilled. The state commissioner has been a completely independent supervisory authority since May 2018

according to European law. The report will therefore also be submitted to the new European data

Protection Committee and the European Commission.

 

The reporting period was largely due to the need for advice with regard to the

application of the new European data protection law (see nos. 1.2 and 2.1). Of the

State Commissioner continued to work in many ways as a consultant for the state government, for authorities

den, companies and associations, and last but not least for the people in Saxony-Anhalt. the

Challenges of the new law also related to legal policy issues in the

Adaptation of state law.

 

2

The authority of the state representative is due to the increase in tasks, also in the cooperation

ration of the European supervisory authorities (see No. 2.1), is still heavily used. Tough-

len and facts (for the period from June 15 to December 31, 2018) result from

Chapter 3

 

As with the 2017/18 budget, the budget decided in 2018 will remain

for 2019 the authorized staffing of the supervisory authority behind the actual

required (see No. 2.2). Data protection, which is mostly valued by state politics

but also deserves greater importance when it comes to staffing.

 

Despite this, thanks to the performance of the office staff,

to ensure that the GDPR has passed its first tests with flying colours. "I

have more tasks and more powers, the authority acts in a practical way and

with a sense of proportion,” emphasized the state representative, “Smart data protection is important for those responsible

a literal task and an opportunity at the same time.”

 

The main focus of the activities of the authority of the state commissioner concerned in addition to the many

Individual consultations, especially for small and medium-sized companies (No. 13.2):

 Adaptation of state law including the SOG (No. 4.1.1, 4.1.2, 7.1),

 Application of the GDPR in the judiciary (No. 9.2),

 Application of the GDPR in medical practices (No. 11.1.2) and non-medical practitioners (No. 11.1.3),

 Video surveillance cases, including a lengthy process in Halle (Saale) (No. 14),

 Processing of reports of data breaches (No. 13.3).

 

In conclusion, the state representative states: "The entry into the new European data

protection law has largely succeeded. Now it is important to put data protection into practice

To realize routine in the everyday life of companies and authorities.”

 

The strategic question of the future of private

in the democratic society of the digital age, the work of the country

the commissioner. Digitization and data protection belong together. That applies to

Economy and society, but also in the area of the state. New business

3

in the field of artificial intelligence, for example, will only

find trust and acceptance if data protection is included from the outset

is obtained. Human dignity and informational self-determination remain zen -

tral standards in the digital age. Digitization must serve as a means of

be understood for the good of man. State surveillance without cause

(e.g. in the case of automatic face recognition as part of video surveillance)

remain inadmissible.

 

The activity report is available on the website of the state commissioner and

can also be ordered by telephone or in writing.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt

dr Harold von Bose

 

ladder street 9, 39104 Magdeburg, postal address: PF 1947, 39009 Magdeburg

Telephone: 0391 81803-0, fax: 0391 81803-33

www.datenschutz.sachsen-anhalt.de

www.informationsfreiheit.sachsen-anhalt.de

Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

