
Program of the EU Data Protection Day 2022 conference
We invite all managers/executors of processing, data protection officers, data protection experts, citizens and all interested parties to free online participation in the conference on the occasion of the European Day of Personal Data Protection. Places for live participation are full, but you can follow us online:
Link to follow the conference
YOU CAN PARTICIPATE IN THE CONFERENCE FOR FREE WITHOUT REGISTRATION!


On January 28, 2022, the Agency for Personal Data Protection is commemorating the European Day of Personal Data Protection for the 16th time in a row. Namely, in order to raise public awareness of the fundamental human right - the right to the protection of personal data and privacy, the Council of Europe, with the support of the European Commission, declared January 28 as European Data Protection Day in 2006, also known as Privacy Day in the world. .
On this occasion, the Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Association of Employers and IAPP KnowledgeNet chapter Croatia, is organizing the conference "GDPR - the cornerstone of the digital future of the EU", which will be held on January 28, 2022 at the Westin Hotel.
The conference will be organized in a hybrid format, and participants will have the opportunity to follow the conference live and online. Putting the health and well-being of each participant first, the physical part of the conference will be organized in compliance with all epidemiological measures.
The focus of this year's conference is the EU's digital strategy and the impact of key proposals for digital regulation - the Digital Markets Act (DMA), the Digital Services Act (DSA) and the Data Management Act (DGA) on fundamental human rights and freedoms, primarily the right of the individual. on the protection of personal data and on the necessity of harmonizing the aforementioned legislative acts with the existing rules on the protection of personal data established by the General Regulation on Data Protection. Also, in April of this year, the European Commission presented the Act on Artificial Intelligence, which for the first time attempts to establish rules for the use of artificial intelligence, a technology that is a central element of the digital industrial revolution.
In the first part of the conference, representatives of the European Commission, the European Data Protection Supervisor, the European Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will hold introductory speeches regarding the success of the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union and the changes that need to be introduced in order to improve the implementation of the Regulation and present his thoughts on the compliance of the new digital regulation with the General Data Protection Regulation.
Furthermore, in order to ensure a secure digital future for EU citizens, the EU is taking measures to face challenges in the field of cybersecurity. Although digitization offers great opportunities and solutions for numerous challenges facing Europe, it also exposes the economy and society to various cyber threats, which we are especially witnessing during the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
In the second part of the conference, representatives of the most successful Croatian companies that develop innovative technological solutions, placing the protection of personal data and privacy high on the list of priorities, will present their experiences and challenges they face when implementing the General Data Protection Regulation. Participants of the first panel discussion entitled "Quo vadis, GDPR?" it will also address numerous criticisms of the basic EU regulation on data protection, which are primarily related to the insufficient efficiency and slowness of the implementation of the Regulation by the supervisory authorities. Also, critics point out that it is an outdated regulation that slows down and prevents technological development and innovation and is unable to respond to the challenges of the modern age.
The participants of the second panel discussion entitled "How the EU is shaping the digital world: European data strategy, regulation of artificial intelligence and (non)compliance with GDPR" will focus on new EU legislative acts that will soon change our digital environment, with a special emphasis on the key role of personal data protection in the new digital future of Europe.

Don't miss the most relevant event on personal data protection this year and follow us at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WB173rndibs




