	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

Opinion	14/2019	on	the	draft	Standard	Contractual	Clauses	

submitted	by	the	DK	SA	(Article	28(8)	GDPR)	

Adopted	on	9	July	2019	

	

Adopted	

	

1	

1  CONTENTS	

2	
3	

4	
5	
	

	

3.1	
3.2	

Summary	of	the	Facts	....................................................................................................................	4	
Assessment	....................................................................................................................................	5	
General	reasoning	of	the	Board	regarding	the	set	of	standard	contractual	clauses	..............	5	
Analysis	of	the	draft	standard	contractual	clauses	................................................................	5	
General	remark	on	the	whole	SCCs	................................................................................	5	
3.2.1	
Data	Processing	Preamble	(Clause	2	of	the	SCCs)	..........................................................	6	
3.2.2	
The	rights	and	obligations	of	the	data	controller	(Clause	3	of	the	SCCs)	.......................	6	
3.2.3	
The	data	processor	acts	according	to	instructions	(Clause	4	of	the	SCCs)	.....................	7	
3.2.4	
Confidentiality	(Clause	5	of	the	SCCs)	............................................................................	7	
3.2.5	
Security	of	processing	(Clause	6	of	the	SCCs)	.................................................................	8	
3.2.6	
Use	of	Sub-Processors	(Clause	7	of	the	SCCs)	................................................................	8	
3.2.7	
Transfer	of	data	to	third	countries	or	international	organisations	(Clause	8	of	the	SCCs)
3.2.8	
10	
	
3.2.9	
Assistance	to	the	data	controller	(Clause	9	of	the	SCCs)	..............................................	11	
3.2.10	 Notification	of	personal	data	breach	(Clause	10	of	the	SCCs)	......................................	13	
Erasure	and	return	of	data	(Clause	11	of	the	SCCs)	.....................................................	13	
3.2.11	
3.2.12	
Inspection	and	audit	(Clause	12	of	the	SCCs)	...............................................................	14	
The	parties’	agreement	on	other	terms	(Clause	13	of	the	SCCs)	.................................	15	
3.2.13	
3.2.14	
Commencement	and	termination	(Clause	14	of	the	SCCs)	..........................................	15	
3.2.15	 Appendix	A	...................................................................................................................	15	
Conclusions	..................................................................................................................................	15	
Final	Remarks	..............................................................................................................................	15	

	

Adopted	

	

2	

The	European	Data	Protection	Board	

Having	regard	to	Article	28(8),	Article	63	and	Article	64(1)(d),	(3)	-	(8)	of	the	Regulation	2016/679/EU	
of	the	European	Parliament	and	of	the	Council	of	27	April	2016	on	the	protection	of	natural	persons	
with	regard	to	the	processing	of	personal	data	and	on	the	free	movement	of	such	data,	and	repealing	
Directive	95/46/EC	(hereafter	“GDPR”),	

Having	 regard	 to	 the	 EEA	 Agreement	 and	 in	 particular	 to	 Annex	 XI	 and	 Protocol	 37	 thereof,	 as	
amended	by	the	Decision	of	the	EEA	joint	Committee	No	154/2018	of	6	July	2018,1	

Having	regard	to	Article	10	and	22	of	its	Rules	of	Procedure	of	25	May	2018,	

Whereas:	

(1)	 The	 main	 role	 of	 the	 European	 Data	 Protection	 Board	 (hereafter	 the	 Board)	 is	 to	 ensure	 the	
consistent	application	of	the	GDPR	throughout	the	European	Economic	Area.	To	this	effect,	it	follows	
from	Article	64(1)(d)	GDPR	that	the	Board	shall	issue	an	opinion	where	a	supervisory	authority	(SA)	
aims	to	determine	standard	contractual	clauses	(SCCs)	pursuant	to	Article	28(8)	GDPR.	The	aim	of	this	
opinion	is	therefore	to	contribute	to	a	harmonised	approach	concerning	cross	border	processing	or	
processing	which	can	affect	the	free	flow	of	personal	data	or	natural	person	across	the	European	
Economic	Area	and	the	consistent	implementation	of	the	GDPR’s	specific	provisions.		

(2)	 In	 the	 context	 of	 the	 relationship	 between	 a	 data	 controller	 and	 a	 data	 processor,	 or	 data	
processors,	 for	 the	 processing	 of	 personal	 data,	 the	 GDPR	 establishes,	 in	 its	 Article	 28,	 a	 set	 of	
provisions	 with	 respect	 to	 the	 setting	 up	 a	 specific	 contract	 between	 the	 parties	 involved	 and	
mandatory	provisions	that	should	be	incorporated	in	it.	
	
(3)	According	to	Article	28(3)	GDPR,	the	processing	by	a	data	processor	shall	be	governed	by	a	contract	
or	other	legal	act	under	Union	or	Member	State	law	that	is	binding	on	the	processor	with	regard	to	the	
controller,	setting	out	a	set	of	specific	aspects	to	regulate	the	contractual	relationship	between	the	
parties.	These	include	the	subject-matter	and	duration	of	the	processing,	its	nature	and	purpose,	the	
type	of	personal	data	and	categories	of	data	subjects,	among	others.		
	
(4)	Under	Article	28(6)	GDPR,	without	prejudice	to	an	individual	contract	between	the	data	controller	
and	the	data	processor,	the	contract	or	the	other	legal	act	referred	in	paragraphs	(3)	and	(4)	of	Article	
28	GDPR	may	be	based,	wholly	or	in	part	on	standard	contractual	clauses.	These	standard	contractual	
clauses	are	to	be	adopted	for	those	matters	referred	to	in	paragraphs	(3)	and	(4).		

(5)	Furthermore,	Article	28(8)	GDPR	determines	that	a	SA	may	adopt	a	set	of	standard	contractual	
clauses	in	accordance	with	the	consistency	mechanism	referred	to	in	Article	63.	That	is	to	mean	that	
SAs	 are	 required	 to	 cooperate	 with	 other	 members	 of	 the	 Board	 and,	 where	 relevant,	 with	 the	
European	 Commission	 through	 the	 consistency	 mechanism.	 SAs	 are	 required,	 pursuant	 to	 Article	
64(1)(d)	to	communicate	to	the	Board	any	draft	decision	aiming	to	determine	standard	contractual	
clauses	pursuant	to	Article	28(8).	In	this	context,	the	Board	is	required	to	issue	an	opinion	on	the	
matter,	pursuant	to	Article	64(3),	where	it	has	not	already	done	so.		

																																																													

1	References	to	“Member	States”	made	throughout	this	opinion	should	be	understood	as	references	to	“EEA	
Member	States”.		

Adopted	

	

3	

	
(6)	Adopted	standard	contractual	clauses	constitute	a	set	of	guarantees	to	be	used	as	is,	as	they	are	
intended	 to	 protect	 data	 subjects	 and	 mitigate	 specific	 risks	 associated	 with	 the	 fundamental	
principles	of	data	protection.		
	

HAS	ADOPTED	THE	OPINION:	

2  SUMMARY	OF	THE	FACTS		

1. 

2. 

3. 

The	competent	supervisory	authority	of	Denmark	has	submitted	its	draft	standard	contractual	clauses	
(hereafter	SCCs)	to	the	Board	via	the	IMI	system	requesting	an	opinion	from	the	Board	pursuant	to	
Article	64(1)(d)	for	a	consistent	approach	at	Union	level.	The	decision	on	the	completeness	of	the	file	
was	taken	on	the	4th	of	April	2019.	The	Board	Secretariat	circulated	the	file	to	all	members	on	behalf	
of	the	Chair	on	the	4th	of	April.	
The	Board	has	received	the	draft	SCCs	from	the	Danish	SA2	along	with	a	letter	explaining	the	structure	
of	 the	 standard	 contractual	 clauses.	 These	 two	 documents	 were	 provided	 by	 the	 Danish	 SA	 in	 an	
English	version.	The	Board	hereby	gives	its	opinion	on	the	English	version	of	the	document	although	
the	Board	notes	that	the	SCCs	is	also	available	in	Danish	on	the	website	of	the	Danish	SA.	The	Danish	
SA	shall	take	utmost	account	of	the	opinion	of	the	Board.	
In	compliance	with	Article	10(2)	of	the	Board	Rules	of	Procedure3,	due	to	the	complexity	of	the	
matter	at	hand,	the	Chair	decided	to	extend	the	initial	adoption	period	of	eight	weeks	by	a	further	
six	weeks	(until	the	9th	of	July	2019).	
	

	

	

																																																													

2	“Data	Processing	agreement”	is	the	term	used	by	the	Danish	SA	in	the	document	provided	to	the	Board	to	refer	
to	Standard	Contractual	Clauses.	
3	Version	2,	as	last	modified	and	adopted	on	23	November	2018.	

Adopted	

	

4	

3  ASSESSMENT	

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

3.1  General	reasoning	of	the	Board	regarding	the	set	of	standard	contractual	clauses	

Any	set	of	standard	contractual	clauses	submitted	to	the	Board	must	further	specify	the	provisions	
foreseen	in	Article	28	GDPR.	The	opinion	of	the	Board	aims	at	ensuring	consistency	and	a	correct	
application	of	Article	28	GDPR	as	regards	the	presented	draft	clauses	that	could	serve	as	standard	
contractual	clauses	in	compliance	with	Article	28(8)	GDPR.		

The	Board	notes	that	that	the	document	presented	to	the	Board	is	a	draft	SCCs	containing	two	parts:		

1)  a	general	part	containing	general	provisions	to	be	used	as	is;	and	
2)  a	specific	part	that	has	to	be	completed	by	the	parties	with	regard	to	the	specific	

processing	which	the	contract	seeks	to	govern.	

In	addition,	the	Danish	SA	explains,	in	its	letter,	that	the	clauses	of	the	SCCs	which	are	in	bold	are	
mandatory	 and	 constitute	 the	 minimum	 requirements	 of	 a	 contract	 under	 Article	 28	 GDPR.	 The	
remaining	clauses,	although	advisable	to	include	in	a	SCCs,	are	voluntary	and	may	be	included	in	the	
SCCs	at	the	discretion	of	the	parties.	

The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	clauses	which	merely	restate	the	provisions	of	Article	28(3)	and	(4)	
are	inadequate	to	constitute	standard	contractual	clauses.	The	Board	has	therefore	decided	to	analyse	
the	document	in	its	entirety,	including	the	appendices.	In	the	opinion	of	the	Board,	a	contract	under	
Article	28	GDPR	should	further	stipulate	and	clarify	how	the	provisions	of	Article	28(3)	and	(4)	will	be	
fulfilled.	It	is	in	this	light	that	the	SCCs	submitted	to	the	Board	for	opinion	is	analysed.	

8.  When	this	opinion	remains	silent	on	one	or	more	clauses	of	the	SCCs	submitted	by	the	Danish	SA,	it	
means	that	the	Board	is	not	asking	the	Danish	SA	to	take	further	action	with	regards	to	this	specific	
clause.	Clauses	6.4,	9.3	and	14.3	of	the	Danish	SCCs	are	not	required	by	article	28	and	are	related	to	
commercial	aspects	and	the	Board	therefore	does	not	see	these	clauses	as	being	part	of	the	SCCs.	It	
is	up	to	the	Parties	whether,	and	how,	to	enter	into	agreement.			
3.2  Analysis	of	the	draft	standard	contractual	clauses	

3.2.1  General	remark	on	the	whole	SCCs	

9. 

10. 

The	 Board	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 if	 the	 SCCs	 only	 contained	 the	 sections	 in	 bold,	 it	 would	 not	 be	
sufficient	as	SCCs,	since	some	of	the	non-bold	sections	relate	to	mandatory	provisions	under	Article	
28(3)	GDPR.	Therefore,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	avoid	this	distinction	by	clearly	
stating,	either	in	the	clauses	or	in	a	separate	document	instructing	on	the	use	of	these	clauses,	that	all	
clauses	of	the	SCCs	together	with	the	appendices	should	be	included	in	the	SCCs	concluded	by	the	
parties.		

In	addition,	the	Board	recalls	that	the	possibility	to	use	Standard	Contractual	Clauses	adopted	by	a	
supervisory	authority	do	not	prevent	the	parties	from	adding	other	clauses	or	additional	safeguards	
provided	that	they	do	not	contradict,	directly	or	indirectly,	the	adopted	standard	contractual	clauses	
or	 prejudice	 the	 fundamental	 rights	 or	 freedoms	 of	 the	 data	 subjects.	 Furthermore,	 where	 the	
standard	 data	 protection	 clauses	 are	 modified,	 the	 parties	 will	 no	 longer	 be	 deemed	 to	 have	
implemented	adopted	standard	contractual	clauses.	

Adopted	

	

5	

11. 

The	Board	notes	that	the	wording	of	several	clauses	of	the	SCCs	are	not	in	line	with	to	the	relevant	
provisions	of	the	GDPR.	The	Board	has	indicated	this	in	its	opinion	below	and	recommends	that	the	
Danish	SA	align	the	wording	of	those	clauses	with	the	relevant	provisions	of	the	GDPR.	

3.2.2  Data	Processing	Preamble	(Clause	2	of	the	SCCs)	

12.  Regarding	clause	2.3	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	relationship	between	the	data	
processing	agreement	and	the	“master	agreement”	could	be	more	flexible.	There	may	be	cases	where	
the	standard	contractual	clauses	are	a	distinct	document	part	of	the	master	agreement	and	as	such,	
there	is	no	need	for	distinct	SCCs.	There	may	also	be	situations	where	the	data	processing	governed	
by	the	SCCs	is	not	part	of	a	master	agreement.	The	Board	therefore	encourages	the	Danish	SA	to	
redraft	this	clause	to	reflect	this	flexibility.	This	specific	change	needs	to	be	implemented	in	each	
occasion	where	the	SCCs	refers	to	the	master	agreement.	

13.  Regarding	clause	2.4	of	the	SCCs,	first	sentence,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	in	some	situations,	
the	 data	 processing	 agreement	 might	 be	 terminated	 before	 the	 “main	 agreement”.	 The	 Board	
recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	adds,	at	the	end	of	the	first	sentence,	that	the	agreement	“cannot,	in	
principle,	be	terminated	separately,	except	where	the	data	processing	ends	before	the	termination	of	
the	master	agreement,	or	where	other	conditions	for	separate	termination	of	the	standard	contractual	
clauses,	as	specified	under	its	termination	clauses,	are	met	(see	also	recommendation	on	clause	14.4	
below)”.	

3.2.3  The	rights	and	obligations	of	the	data	controller	(Clause	3	of	the	SCCs)	

14.  Regarding	clause	3.1	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	wording	“shall	be	responsible	to	
the	outside	world”	is	misleading.	Indeed,	it	could	be	understood	as	placing	obligations	towards	data	
subjects	or	other	stakeholders	solely	on	the	data	controller.	The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	this	clause	
would	be	clearer	if	a	reference	to	Article	24	GDPR	and	its	accountability	principle	is	made.	The	Board	
subsequently	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	adds	such	a	reference.		

15. 

Further,	regarding	the	clause	3.1,	it	would	be	better	to	refer,	in	general,	to	the	applicable	legislation	
in	data	protection	matter,	where	relevant,	instead	of	to	a	specific	act.	The	Board	recommends	that	
the	Danish	SA	amend	the	reference	to	the	Data	Protection	Act.	Finally,	the	Board	suggests	replacing	
the	words	“in	the	framework	of”	by	“in	compliance	with”.	

Therefore	the	Board	would	suggest	the	following	wording	as	an	example:	

“1.	The	Data	Controller	is	responsible	for	ensuring	that	the	processing	of	personal	data	takes	place	in	
compliance	with	the	General	Data	Protection	Regulation	(see	Article	24	GDPR	),	the	applicable	EU	or	
Member	States	data	protection	provisions	()	and	this	standard	contractual	clauses.”	

16.  Regarding	clause	3.2	of	the	SCCS,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	this	clause	is	unclear,	since	the	data	
controller	has	already	defined	the	purposes	and	means	of	the	processing	activity	subject	to	the	SCCs.	
The	Board	recommends	the	Danish	SA	to	modify	this	clause	as	follows:	

17. 

“The	data	controller	has	the	right	and	obligation	to	make	decisions	about	the	purposes	and	means	of	
the	processing	of	personal	data”.	

18.  Regarding	clause	3.3	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	its	meaning	is	unclear.	The	Board	
assumes	that	the	idea	behind	this	clause	is	to	make	sure	that	the	processing	activities	for	which	the	
data	 controller	 wishes	 to	 engage	 a	 data	 processor	 have	 a	 legal	 basis.	 If	 it	 is	 the	 case,	 the	 Board	
recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	clarifies	the	clause	accordingly.		

Adopted	

	

6	

Finally,	the	Board	notes	that	in	clause	3.1	of	the	SCCs	the	wording	“processing	of	personal	data”	is	
used.	In	clause	3.3	of	the	SCCs,	the	word	“processing”	is	used.	The	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	
SA	use	the	same	terminology	in	order	to	avoid	confusion.	

As	an	example,	the	Board	would	therefore	suggest	the	following	wording:	

“3.	The	data	controller	shall	be	responsible,	among	others,	for	ensuring	that	the	processing	of	personal	
data	which	the	data	processor	is	instructed	to	perform	has	a	legal	basis.”	

3.2.4  The	data	processor	acts	according	to	instructions	(Clause	4	of	the	SCCs)	

19.  Regarding	clause	4.1	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	a	reference	should	be	made	to	
appendices	 A	 and	 C	 as	 they	 further	 specify	 the	 data	 controller’s	 instructions.	 The	 Board	 is	 of	 the	
opinion	that	additional	instructions	can	be	given	by	the	data	controller	throughout	the	duration	of	the	
contract	but	such	instructions	shall	always	be	documented.		

Further,	 the	 Board	 notes	 that	 this	 clause	 is	 inspired	 by	 Article	 28(3)(a)	 GDPR.	 The	 Board	 would	
therefore	encourage	the	Danish	SA	to	use	the	same	wording	as	in	the	GDPR.		

20.  Regarding	clause	4.2	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	in	case	of	unlawful	instructions,	

parties	should	foresee	consequences	and	provide	solutions.		

3.2.5  Confidentiality	(Clause	5	of	the	SCCs)	

21. 

The	Board	understands	clause	5	of	the	SCCs	as	the	specification	of	Article	28(3)(b)	GDPR	which	states	
that	“the	processor	ensures	that	persons	authorised	to	process	the	personal	data	have	committed	
themselves	to	confidentiality	or	are	under	an	appropriate	statutory	obligation	of	confidentiality”.	

22.  Regarding	clause	5.1	of	the	SCCs,	the	word	“currently”	is	understood	by	the	Board	as	the	necessity	to	
keep	the	status	of	“authorised	persons”	under	review.	Further,	it	is	unclear	to	the	Board	who	is	giving	
the	authorisation	to	those	persons	in	particular	since	access	to	personal	data	has	to	be	provided	on	a	
“need-to-know”	basis.		

23.  Regarding	clause	5.2	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	this	clause	relates	to	the	principle	of	
the	access	to	the	personal	data	on	a	“need-to-know”	basis.	The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	clauses	
5.1	and	5.2	of	the	SCCs	can	be	combined	as	follows:		

“It	is	the	responsibility	of	the	data	processor	to	grant	access	to	persons	under	its	authority	to	the	
personal	data	being	processed	on	behalf	of	the	data	controller	only	on	a	need	to	know	basis	and	who	
have	 committed	 themselves	 to	 confidentiality	 or	 are	 under	 an	 appropriate	 statutory	 obligation	 of	
confidentiality.	The	list	of	persons	to	whom	access	has	been	granted	needs	to	be	kept	under	periodic	
review.	On	the	basis	of	the	said	review,	access	to	personal	data	can	be	withdrawn	and	in	this	case,	
personal	data	cannot	be	accessible	anymore	to	those	persons.”	

24.  Regarding	 clause	 5.3	 of	 the	 SCCs,	 the	 Board	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 it	 is	 covered	 by	 the	 suggested	

wording	above	and	clause	5.3	can	therefore	be	deleted.	

25.  Regarding	clause	5.4	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	delete	the	wording	“be	
able	 to“	 since	 the	 data	 processor	 has	 to	 demonstrate	 compliance	 with	 the	 confidentiality	
requirements.	 Further,	 the	 Board	 encourages	 the	 Danish	 SA	 to	 adopt	 a	 broader	 wording	 when	
referencing	to	“employees”	as	there	may	be	other	persons	than	employees	processing	personal	data	

Adopted	

	

7	

under	the	authority	of	the	processor.	Wording	such	as	“person	under	the	authority	of	the	processor”	
or	“persons	employed	directly	or	indirectly	by”	would	be	more	appropriate.	

3.2.6  Security	of	processing	(Clause	6	of	the	SCCs)	

26.  Regarding	clause	6.1	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	replace	the	words	“with	
consideration	for	the	current	level”	in	the	beginning	of	the	sentence	by	the	words	“taking	into	account	
the	state	of	the	art”,	which	is	the	wording	of	Article	32(1)	GDPR.		This	specific	wording	is	used	in	the	
GDPR	to	make	sure	that	the	level	of	security	applied	to	the	processing	of	personal	data	is	always	in	
line	with	the	latest	technological	evolutions.	The	wording	suggested	by	the	Danish	SA	makes	reference	
to	a	current	level	which	will	not	be	the	state	of	the	art	in	2	years.	

27.  Regarding	clause	6.2	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	understands	that	this	provision	relates	to	Article	28(3)(c)	
of	 the	 GDPR	 and	 that	 clause	 9.2	 relates	 to	 Article	 28(3)(f)	 of	 the	 GDPR.	 However,	 the	 distinction	
between	the	two	clauses	and	the	different	tasks	of	the	data	processor	in	not	very	clear.	The	Board	
recalls	that	Article	28(3)(f)	GDPR	states	that	the	data	processor	assists	the	data	controller	in	ensuring	
compliance	 with	 the	 obligations	 under	 Articles	 32	 to	 36	 GDPR	 taking	 into	 account	 the	 nature	 of	
processing	and	the	information	available	to	the	data	processor.	

The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	“risk	assessment”	referred	to	in	the	first	sentence	of	clause	6.2	
has	to	be	performed	on	the	processing	activities,	which	the	data	controller	will	entrust	to	the	data	
processor.	The	data	controller	should	therefore	provide	the	data	processor	with	all	the	information	
necessary	so	that	the	data	processor	can	comply	with	Article	28(3)(c)	and	(f)	of	the	GDPR.	The	Board	
would	like	to	emphasize	that	this	does	not	exempt	the	data	controller	from	the	responsibility	to	be	in	
compliance	with	its	own	obligations	under	Article	25,	32	or	35-36	GDPR.	

In	addition,	the	end	of	the	first	sentence	of	clause	6.2	needs	to	be	redrafted	in	order	to	be	more	in	
line	with	clause	9.2	and	appendix	C2	as	it	is	not	clear	for	the	Board	how	the	wording	“thereafter	
implement	measures	to	counter	the	identified	risk”	in	clause	6.2	is	related	to	clause	9.2	and	appendix	
C2.	The	Board	has	noticed	that	clause	9.2.a	and	appendix	C2	address	the	topic	of	risk	assessment	but	
not	in	the	same	way	as	clause	6.2.	Under	clause	6.2,	the	risk	assessment	is	to	be	performed	by	the	
data	processor,	whereas	under	clause	9.2	and	appendix	C2,	the	risk	assessment	is	to	be	performed	by	
the	data	controller.	Appendix	C2	further	sets	out	that	the	data	processor	shall	implement	measures	
that	have	been	agreed	with	the	data	controller.		

Regarding	appendix	C2,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	wording	“The	level	of	security	shall	reflect”	
could	be	changed	into	“The	level	of	security	shall	take	into	account”.	Regarding	the	elements	to	be	
taken	into	account,	Articles	32(1)	and	32(2)	GDPR	mentions	the	nature,	scope,	context	and	purposes	
of	the	processing	activity	as	well	as	the	risk	for	the	rights	and	freedoms	of	natural	persons.	These	could	
be	elements	to	mention	in	order	to	clarify	what	is	expected	by	“Describe	elements	that	are	essentials	
to	the	level	of	security”.	

Therefore,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	clarifies	and	aligns	clauses	6.2,	9.2	and	Appendix	
C2.		

3.2.7  Use	of	Sub-Processors	(Clause	7	of	the	SCCs)	

28.  Regarding	clauses	7.2	and	7.5	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	replace	the	

word	“consent”	by	“authorisation”,	as	this	is	the	wording	of	Article	28(2)	GDPR.	

Adopted	

	

8	

Furthermore,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	it	would	be	more	practical	to	create	options	in	this	clause	
as	follows:	

“2.	The	data	processor	shall	therefore	not	engage	another	processor	(sub-processor)	for	the	fulfilment	
of	these	standard	contractual	clauses	without	the	prior	[Choice	1]	specific	authorisation	of	the	data	
controller	/	[Choice	2]	general	written	authorisation	of	the	data	controller.”	

29.  Regarding	clauses	7.3	and	7.4	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	finds	it	important	to	add	the	fact	that	the	list	of	
sub-processors	which	are	accepted	by	the	data	controller	at	the	time	of	the	signature	of	the	contract	
should	be	included	as	an	appendix	to	the	SCCs,	be	it	on	the	basis	of	a	general	authorisation	or	a	specific	
one.	 The	 purpose	 of	 this	 list	 is	 to	 ensure	 that	 even	 in	 cases	 of	 a	 general	 authorization,	 the	 data	
controller	remains	informed	about	the	list	of	sub-processors	as	well	as	further	changes.	The	Board	
recommends	that	the	SCC	clarifies	that	the	list	of	sub-processors	in	appendix	B2	has	to	be	provided	
both	in	cases	of	general	and	specific	prior	authorisation.			

Further,	in	appendix	B1	of	the	SCCs,	there	are	examples	of	clauses	that	the	parties	can	choose	in-
between.	The	Board	considers	that	it	would,	however,	be	better	to	included	such	clauses	in	the	SCCs	
itself	instead	of	in	the	appendices.	

Finally,	as	regards	the	general	prior	authorisation,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	any	conditions	that	
the	data	processor	might	set	for	the	data	controller	to	object	to	changes	of	sub-processor(s)	must	
allow	the	data	controller	to,	in	practice,	exercise	its	freedom	of	choice	and	enable	the	data	controller	
to	remain	in	control	over	the	personal	data.	This	implies	also	that	the	data	controller	should	have	
sufficient	time	to	object	to	such	a	change.	

The	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	redraft	clause	7.3	to	create	options	within	the	clause	that	
can	be	chosen	by	the	parties	within	the	SCCs	and	to	incorporate	the	content	of	clauses	7.4	and	7.5	
within	7.3.		

Clause	7.3	could	be	drafted	as	follow:		

“3.	 In	 case	 of	 general	 written	 authorisation,	 the	 data	 processor	 shall	 inform	 in	 writing	 the	 data	
controller	of	any	intended	changes	concerning	the	addition	or	replacement	of	sub-processors	in	at	least	
[specify	time	period],	and	thereby	giving	the	data	controller	the	opportunity	to	object	to	such	changes	
prior	to	the	engagement	of	any	sub-processor.	Longer	time	periods	of	prior	notice	for	specific	sub-
processing	services	can	be	provided	in	the	Appendix	B.	The	list	of	sub-processors	already	accepted	by	
the	data	controller	can	be	find	in	appendix	B.”	

In	case	of	specific	prior	authorisation,	the	data	processor	shall	engage	sub-processor	solely	with	the	
prior	 authorisation	 of	 the	 data	 controller.	 The	 data	 processor	 shall	 submit	 the	 request	 for	 specific	
authorisation	at	least	[specify	time	period]	prior	to	the	engagement	of	any	sub-processor.	The	list	of	
sub-processors	already	accepted	by	the	data	controller	can	be	found	in	appendix	B.”	

As	the	option	is	created	in	the	draft	SCCs	itself,	appendix	B1	can	be	deleted.	In	addition,	the	Board	
recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	adds	a	possibility	to	have	a	longer	period	of	prior	notice	in	appendix	
B.		

30.  Regarding	clause	7.6	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	understands	this	clause	as	a	reference	to	Article	28(4)	
GDPR.	As	previously	mentioned,	it	would	be	better	to	refer	to	the	exact	wording	of	the	text	of	the	
GDPR	to	avoid	any	confusion.	

Regarding	clause	7.8	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	would	like	to	underline	the	fact	that	its	content	is	not	
required	by	Article	28	GDPR.	The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	words	“third	party”	are	unclear.	If	

Adopted	

	

9	

the	intention	is	to	create	a	“third	party	beneficiary	right”	for	the	data	controller	within	the	contract	
between	the	data	processor	and	the	sub-processor,	this	should	be	specified.		

As	such,	the	Board	sees	an	added	value	in	having	such	a	clause	as	part	of	a	standard	contractual	
clauses.	Indeed,	it	preserves	the	rights	of	the	data	controller,	including	liability.	For	this	reason,	the	
Board	encourages	the	Danish	SA	to	make	it	clearer	that	the	intention	is	to	create	a	third	beneficiary	
right	for	the	data	controller.	This	would	imply	for	instance	that	the	sub-processor	would	accept	to	be	
liable	to	the	data	controller	in	case	of	the	initial	data	processor	is	bankrupt	or	the	possibility	for	the	
controller	to	directly	order	the	sub-processor	to	return	the	data.		

31.  Regarding	clause	7.9	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	it	is	important	to	make	a	reference	
to	the	rights	of	the	data	subject.	This	reference	can	be	made	as	follows:	“This	does	not	affect	the	rights	
of	the	data	subjects	under	the	GDPR	-	in	particular	those	foreseen	in	Articles	79	and	82	GDPR	-	against	
the	data	controller	and	the	data	processor,	including	the	sub-processor.”	

3.2.8  Transfer	of	data	to	third	countries	or	international	organisations	(Clause	8	of	the	SCCs)	

32.  Regarding	the	title	of	the	clause,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	it	should	be	clarified	that	the	words	
“third	 countries”	 refers	 to	 countries	 outside	 of	 the	 EEA	 and	 not	 outside	 of	 Denmark.	 The	 Board	
encourages	the	Danish	SA	to	clarify	this.	

33. 

The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	section	8	should	clarify	that	the	data	controller	has	to	decide	whether	
a	transfer	is	allowed	under	the	contract	or	if	it	should	be	prohibited.	The	Board	recommends	to	the	
Danish	SA	that	this	is	made	clear	in	the	standard	contractual	clauses	and	encourages	it	to	specify	this	
in	appendix	C5.		

34.  Regarding	clause	8.1	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	notes	that	the	Danish	SA	has	added	parentheses	after	the	
word	“transfer”	as	following	“(assignment,	disclosure	and	internal	use)”.	The	Board	wonders	whether	
this	aims	at	giving	a	definition	of	the	word	“transfer”.	If	this	is	the	intention,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	
that	as	there	is	no	such	definition	of	the	notion	of	transfer	in	the	GDPR,	it	is	better	to	delete	these	
terms	in	parentheses.	

Finally,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	start	its	clause	8.1	by	adding	“In	compliance	with	
Chapter	V	GDPR	...”	Indeed,	the	Board	recalls	that	for	any	transfer	outside	of	the	EU,	all	provisions	of	
Chapter	V	GDPR	need	to	be	complied	with.	It	should	be	clarified	under	clause	8	that	these	SCCs	cannot	
be	understood	as	SCCs	fulfilling	the	requirements	of	Art.	46	GDPR	and	therefore	cannot	be	used	as	a	
tool	to	carry	out	international	transfers	within	the	meaning	of	Chapter	V	of	the	GDPR.	This	could	be	in	
addition	reflected	in	the	title	of	clause	8,	which	otherwise	may	give	the	impression	that	transfers	can	
be	carried	out	on	the	basis	of	these	SCCs.	

35.  Regarding	clause	8.2	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	has	several	remarks.	

First,	 in	 the	 beginning	 of	 the	 sentence,	 the	 Board	 encourages	 the	 Danish	 SA	 to	 add	 the	 word	
“documented”	 before	 “instructions”	 to	 ensure	 legal	 certainty	 and	 alignment	 with	 Article	 28(3)(a)	
GDPR	and	to	change	the	word	“approval”	to	“authorisation”	in	line	with	the	terms	used	under	Article	
28	 GDPR.	 The	 beginning	 of	 the	 sentence	 should	 be	 “Without	 the	 documented	 instructions	 or	
authorisation	of	the	data	controller”.	

Second,	on	clause	8.2.a,	the	word	“disclose”	might	create	confusion	with	the	notion	of	transfer.	In	
addition,	personal	data	can	be	transferred	to	a	data	controller	(as	already	mentioned	in	the	clause)	
but	also	to	a	data	processor	in	a	third	country.	The	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	drafts	clause	

Adopted	

	

10	

8.2.a	as	follows:	“transfer	personal	data	to	a	data	controller	or	a	data	processor	in	a	third	country	or	
in	an	international	organisation”.	

Third,	on	clause	8.2.b,	the	word	“assign”	might	also	create	confusion	with	the	notion	of	transfer.	The	
Board	recommends	that	Danish	SA	replace	the	word	“assign”	by	the	word	“transfer”.	

Finally,	on	clause	8.2.c,	it	is	unclear	to	the	Board	what	the	meaning	of	the	word	“divisions”	is.	The	
Board	encourages	the	Danish	SA	to	replace	clause	8.2.c	by	the	following	sentence:	“have	the	data	
processed	by	the	Data	Processor	outside	the	EEA”.	

36.  Regarding	clause	8.3	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	understands	that	it	is	a	way	to	have	the	instructions	of	
the	data	controller	documented	in	the	appendix	C5.	As	already	stated	in	the	beginning	of	its	opinion,	
the	Board	sees	the	appendices	as	mandatory.	However,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	mentioning	
the	choice	of	the	tool	for	transfer	could	have	a	benefit,	in	addition	to	the	instructions	as	it	contributes	
demonstrating	 compliance	 of	 the	 parties	 with	 Chapter	 V	 of	 the	 GDPR.	 The	 Board	encourages	 the	
Danish	SA	to	amend	clause	8.3	as	follow:	

37. 

“The	data	controller’s	instructions	regarding	transfers	of	personal	data	to	a	third	country	including,	if	
applicable,	the	transfer	tool	on	which	they	are	based,	shall	be	set	out	in	appendix	C5	of	these	standard	
contractual	clauses.	The	same	procedure	shall	be	applied	for	the	approval	of	transfers	of	personal	data	
to	a	third	country.”		

3.2.9  Assistance	to	the	data	controller	(Clause	9	of	the	SCCs)	

38.  Clause	9.1	of	the	SCCs	reflects	the	content	of	Article	28(3)(e)	of	the	GDPR.	The	obligation	of	the	data	
processor	under	this	clause	is	to	assist	the	data	controller	to	respond	to	requests	for	exercising	data	
subject’s	rights.	The	assistance	can	take	various	forms.	The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	SCCs	needs	
to	give	details	on	the	manner	in	which	the	processor	is	required	to	provide	assistance	and	not	only	
the	list	of	possible	rights	to	be	exercised.	

Notably,	the	SCCs	should	set	out	the	steps	to	be	taken	by	the	data	processor	in	case	the	latter	directly	
receives	a	request	from	a	data	subject	relating	to	the	exercise	of	his/her	rights.	For	example,	it	has	to	
be	clear	in	the	agreement	in	such	a	case	as	to	whether	the	data	processor	is	not	allowed	to	have	any	
contact	with	the	data	subjects,	and	how	the	processor	needs	to	inform	the	controller	when	it	comes	
to	data	subjects’	rights	(e.g.	forwarding	the	request	to	the	controller	within	a	specified	timeframe	or	
other	appropriate	measures).	In	this	case,	the	assistance	is	provided	only	through	an	exchange	of	
information	between	the	data	controller	and	the	data	processor.	Another	scenario	could	be	that	the	
data	 controller	 instructs	 the	 data	 processor	 to	 answer	 to	 data	 subject’s	 requests	 according	 to	
instructions	 given.	 Another	 option	 could	 be	 that	 the	 data	 processor	 would	 make	 the	 technical	
implementations	 instructed	 by	 the	 data	 controller	 with	 respect	 to	 data	 subject	 rights.	 The	 Board	
recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	reflect	on	the	possibility	to	include	the	following	sentence	under	
clause	9.1	of	the	SCCs:	

“The	parties	shall	define	in	appendix	C	the	appropriate	technical	and	organisational	measures	with	
which	the	data	processor	is	required	to	assist	the	data	controller	as	well	as	the	scope	and	the	extent	of	
the	assistance	required.	This	applies	to	the	obligations	foreseen	in	clauses	9.1	and	9.2	of	the	standard	
contractual	clauses.”	

A	new	point	in	appendix	C	needs	to	be	created	in	order	to	have	the	technical	and	organisational	
measures	specified.	

Adopted	

	

11	

Further,	on	clause	9.1.a	and	9.1.b	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	use	the	words	“right	to	
be	 informed”	 instead	 of	 the	 word	 “notification”,	 as	 follow:	 “Right	 to	 be	 informed	 when	 collecting	
personal	 data	 from	 the	 data	 subject”	 -	 “Right	 to	 be	 informed	 when	 personal	 data	 have	 not	 been	
obtained	from	the	data	subject”.	

Regarding	clause	9.1.j,	the	Board	would	prefer	to	have	the	exact	wording	of	the	GDPR.	The	Board	
therefore	encourages	the	Danish	SA	to	redraft	it	as	follow	“the	right	not	to	be	subject	to	a	decision	
solely	based	on	automated	processing,	including	profiling”.	

39.  Clause	 9.2	 of	 the	 SCCs	 reflects	 the	 content	 of	 Article	 28(3)(f)	 of	 the	 GDPR.	 Hence	 the	 Board	
recommends	replacing	“data	made	available”	by	“information	available”.	The	obligation	of	the	data	
processor	under	this	clause	is	to	assist	the	data	controller	for	the	fulfilment	of	the	legal	duties	relating	
to	the	security,	the	data	protection	impact	assessment	and	prior	consultation	of	SAs.	Here	again,	the	
Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	SCCs	needs	to	give	details	on	the	manner	in	which	the	data	processor	
is	required	to	provide	assistance	to	the	data	controller.	

As	already	stated	in	paragraph	27	of	this	opinion,	the	Danish	SA	should	clarify	the	relationship	between	
clause	9.2	and	clause	6	on	security	of	the	processing.	The	Board	understands	the	relationship	between	
those	two	clauses	as	referring	to	Article	28(3)(c)	of	the	GDPR	for	clause	6	and	to	Article	28(3)(f)	for	
clause	9.2.		Indeed,	clause	9.2.a	and	to	a	certain	extent	clause	9.2.b	are	obligations	that	need	to	be	
fulfilled	in	all	cases	by	the	data	processor	subject	to	the	GDPR.	This	follows	from	Article	32(1)	and	
Article	33(2)	GDPR.	For	clause	9.2.a	to	be	kept,	some	further	alignments	with	Article	32(1)	GDPR	would	
be	required.	The	Board	recommends	to	the	Danish	SA	to	make	clear	that	the	risk	would	be	the	risk	
“for	the	rights	and	freedoms	of	natural	persons”.	Furthermore,	not	only	is	the	nature	of	the	processing	
to	be	taken	into	account,	but	also	the	state	of	the	art,	the	costs	of	implementation,	the	scope,	the	
context	and	the	purposes	of	the	processing.	The	Board	understands	that	the	parties	should	specify	in	
Appendix	C2	the	minimum	level	of	security	and	measures	to	be	implemented	by	the	data	processor.	
The	Board	considers	it	important	that	details	on	assistance	to	the	data	controller	as	regards	security	
of	the	processing	be	included	in	the	instructions	under	appendix	C2.	

The	Board	has	provided	a	drafting	suggestion	covering	clauses	9.1	and	9.2	above.	

On	 clause	 9.2.b,	 the	 Board	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 any	 reference	 to	 a	 specific	 national	 supervisory	
authority	in	a	model	contract	should	be	avoided.	In	addition,	the	words	“report”	should	be	replaced	
by	“notify”	and	“discovering”	should	be	replaced	by	“after	becoming	aware”	to	be	in	line	with	Article	
33(2)	GDPR.		

Clause	9.2.b	could	be	drafted	as	follow:	“b.	its	obligation,	unless	the	personal	data	breach	is	unlikely	
to	result	in	a	risk	to	the	rights	and	freedoms	of	natural	persons,	to	report	personal	data	breaches	to	
the	competent	supervisory	authority,	[PLEASE	INDICATE	the	competent	SA],	without	undue	delay	and	
where	feasible,	no	later	than	72	hours	after	having	become	aware	of	such	breach”.	

On	clause	9.2.e,	here	again,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	reference	to	the	Danish	SA	should	be	
removed.	 Clause	 9.2.e	 could	 be	 drafted	 as	 follow:	 “e.	 the	 obligation	 to	 consult	 the	 competent	
supervisory	 authority,	 [PLEASE	 INDICATE	 the	 competent	 SA],	 prior	 to	 processing	 where	 a	 data	
protection	impact	assessment	indicates	that	the	processing	would	result	in	a	high	risk	in	the	absence	
of	measures	taken	by	the	Data	Controller	to	mitigate	the	risk”.	

The	Board	considers	important	to	have	this	clause	further	detailed	in	appendix	C	or	D	to	ensure	that	
the	parties	make	arrangements	on	the	manner	this	assistance	will	be	provided	in	practice.	

Adopted	

	

12	

3.2.10  Notification	of	personal	data	breach	(Clause	10	of	the	SCCs)	

40.  Regarding	clause	10.1	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board,	as	already	stated,	favours	the	wording	of	the	GDPR	in	
order	to	avoid	any	confusion.	In	this	clause,	the	word	“discovery”	should	be	changed	into	“after	having	
become	 aware”.	 In	 addition,	 the	 Board	 encourages	 the	 Danish	 SA	 to	 add	 the	 word	 “any”	 before	
personal	data	breach	in	order	to	make	clear	that	it	is	not	up	to	the	data	processor	to	assess	whether	
or	 not	 the	 data	 breach	 has	 to	 be	 notified	 to	 the	 competent	 SA.	 This	 is	 the	 data	 controller’s	
responsibility4.			

The	sentence	could	be	changed	as	follow:	“1.	In	case	of	any	personal	data	breach,	the	data	processor	
or	 sub-processor	 shall,	 without	 undue	 delay	 after	 having	 become	 aware	 of	 it,	 notify	 the	 data	
controller.”	

The	Board	recommends	deleting	“at	the	data	processor’s	facilities	or	a	sub-processor’s	facilities”	which	
would	limit	the	notification	obligation	to	cases	where	the	breach	occurs	in	these	facilities,	whereas	
such	limitation	does	not	stem	from	the	GDPR.		

Regarding	the	second	part	of	clause	10.1,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	it	can	be	completed	as	
follows:	

“The	data	processor’s	notification	to	the	data	controller	shall,	if	possible,	take	place	with-in	[number	
of	 hours]	 after	 the	 data	 processor	 has	 become	 aware	 of	 the	 breach	 in	 order	 to	 enable	 the	 data	
controller	to	comply	with	his	obligation	to	report	personal	data	breaches	already	mentioned	in	clause	
9.2.b.	“		

41.  Regarding	clause	10.2	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	words	“taking	into	account	the	
nature	of	the	processing	and	information	available”	could	be	further	specified	in	appendix	D	in	order	
to	be	more	concrete	and	tailor-made.	The	following	wording	could	be	added	in	a	new	paragraph	at	
the	end	of	clause	10.2:	

“The	parties	shall	define	in	appendix	D	the	elements	to	be	provided	by	the	data	processor	to	assist	the	
data	controller	in	the	reporting	of	a	breach	to	the	supervisory	authority.”	

In	addition,	in	the	beginning	of	the	second	sentence	of	clause	10.2,	the	draft	SCCs	states	“This	may	
mean	-	on	the	basis	of	the	information	available	to	the	Processor	-	(...)”.	The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	
that	-	for	the	sake	of	legal	certainty	-	it	is	better	to	avoid	this	kind	of	formulation.	The	Board	encourages	
the	Danish	SA	to	amend	this	wording	by	deleting	the	word	“may”.	

3.2.11  Erasure	and	return	of	data	(Clause	11	of	the	SCCs)	

42.  Regarding	clause	11	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	it	would	be	more	practical	to	create	
a	real	option	in	this	clause.	The	Board	encourages	the	Danish	SA	to	amend	this	clause	in	order	to	create	
two	concrete	options	to	be	chosen	by	the	Data	Controller.	

The	clause	could	be	drafted	as	follows:		

																																																													

4	See	Guidelines	on	data	breach	notification	(p.	13)	“It	should	be	noted	that	the	processor	does	not	need	to	first	
assess	the	likelihood	of	risk	arising	from	a	breach	before	notifying	the	controller;	it	is	the	controller	that	must	
make	this	assessment	on	becoming	aware	of	the	breach.	The	processor	just	needs	to	establish	whether	a	breach	
has	occurred	and	then	notify	the	controller.”	

Adopted	

	

13	

“On	termination	of	the	processing	services,	the	data	processor	shall	be	under	obligation	[Option	1]	to	
delete	all	personal	data	processed	on	behalf	of	the	data	controller	[Option	2]	to	return	all	the	personal	
data	to	the	Data	Controller	and	to	erase	existing	copies.		

[Optional]	The	following	EU	or	Member	states	law	applicable	to	the	processor	requires	storage	of	the	
personal	 data	 after	 the	 termination	 of	 the	 processing	 services:	 ............................	 The	 processor	
commits	to	exclusively	process	the	data	for	the	purposes	provided	by	this	law	and	under	the	strict	
applicable	conditions.“	

More	 information	 could	 be	 provided	 in	 the	 appendix	 C3,	 including	 the	 possibility	 for	 the	 data	
controller	to	modify	the	option	chosen	at	the	signature	of	the	contract.	This,	as	a	consequence,	affects	
the	content	of	appendix	C3.	The	Board	encourages	the	Danish	SA	to	better	distinguish	the	storage	
period	 from	 the	 erasure	 procedures	 under	 appendix	 C3	 and	 to	 reflect	 the	 possibility	 for	 the	 data	
controller	to	change	the	choice	made.	

Finally,	 the	 Board	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 the	 words	 “processing	 services”	 need	 to	 be	 specified	 for	
instance	by	“after	the	end	of	the	provision	of	services	relating	to	processing”.	This	can	be	done	in	the	
appendix	D.	

3.2.12  Inspection	and	audit	(Clause	12	of	the	SCCs)	

43.  Clause	12.1	of	the	SCCs	reflects	the	content	of	Article	28(3)(h)	of	the	GDPR.	The	Board	recommends	
to	use	the	same	terminology	of	paragraph	1	“audits,	including	inspections”	within	paragraphs	2	and	3	
which	only	refer	to	inspection.		

44.  Regarding	clause	12.3	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	understands	it	as	covering	audit	and	inspections	towards	
the	sub-processor.	In	accordance	with	Article	28(4)	of	the	GDPR,	the	same	obligations	as	set	out	in	the	
contract	or	another	legal	act	between	the	controller	and	the	processor	shall	be	imposed	on	the	sub-
processor.	This	includes	the	obligation	under	Art.	28(3)(h)	to	allow	for	and	contribute	to	audits	by	the	
data	controller	or	another	auditor	mandated	by	the	data	controller.	The	drafting	of	clause	12.3	seems	
to	limit	this	right	of	the	data	controller	vis-a-vis	the	sub-processor	(“if	applicable”	and	“performed	
through	the	Data	processor”).	The	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	redrafts	clause	12.3	in	order	
to	be	in	full	compliance	with	the	GDPR.	This	can	be	done	by	merging	clauses	12.2	and	12.3	as	follows:	
“Procedures	applicable	to	the	data	controller’s	audits,	including	inspections	of	the	data	processor	and	
the	data	sub-processor	are	specified	in	appendices	C6	and	C7	to	these	standard	contractual	clauses.”	

45. 

46. 

	Regarding	 appendices	 C6	 and	 C7,	 the	 Board	 recommends	 the	 Danish	 SA	 to	 change	 the	 following	
sentence	 “The	 inspection	 report	 shall	 without	 delay	 be	 submitted	 to	 the	 Data	 Controller	 for	
information	purposes”	to	make	it	clear	that	the	controller	is	be	able	to	contest	the	scope,	methodology	
and	the	results	of	the	inspection.	The	controller	should	also	be	able	to	request	measures	to	be	taken	
following	the	results	of	the	inspection.	

In	addition,	the	reference	is	appendix	C6	to	“Data	Processor’s	facilities”	and	C7	to	“Sub-Processor’s	
facilities”	need	to	be	broaden.	Indeed,	rights	of	the	data	controller	in	the	framework	of	inspections	
and/or	 audit	 should	 not	 be	 limited	 to	 the	 facilities	 of	 the	 processor	 or	 sub-processors.	 The	 data	
controller	should	have	access	to	the	places	where	the	processing	is	being	carried	out.	This	includes	
physical	facilities	as	well	as	systems	used	for	and	related	to	the	processing.	

Adopted	

	

14	

3.2.13  The	parties’	agreement	on	other	terms	(Clause	13	of	the	SCCs)	

47.  Regarding	clause	13	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	bear	in	mind	that	if	a	
paragraph	specifying	liability,	governing	law,	jurisdiction	or	other	terms	is	included,	it	cannot	lead	to	
any	 contradiction	 with	 the	 relevant	 provisions	 of	 the	 GDPR	 or	 undermine	 the	 level	 of	 protection	
offered	by	the	GDPR	or	the	contract.	

3.2.14  Commencement	and	termination	(Clause	14	of	the	SCCs)	

48.  Regarding	 clause	 14.4	 of	 the	 SCCs,	 the	 Board	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 a	 specific	 provision	 on	 the	
termination	of	the	contract	might	also	be	relevant	for	the	SCCs.	As	the	position	of	the	Board	is	that	
the	relationship	between	the	data	processing	agreement	and	the	master	agreement	should	be	more	
flexible,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	includes	a	provision	on	the	termination	within	the	
SCCs.	

49.  Regarding	clause	14.5	of	the	SCCs,	the	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	this	clause	might	be	in	contradiction	
with	clauses	2.4	or	14.4.	The	Board	recommends	that	the	Danish	SA	clarifies	the	relationship	between	
those	three	clauses.	

3.2.15  Appendix	A	

50.  Appendix	A	aims	at	giving	details	about	the	processing	activities	undertaken	by	the	data	processor	on	
behalf	of	the	data	controller.	To	this	end,	the	Board	recommends	that	the	purpose	and	the	nature	of	
the	processing	are	described,	as	well	as	the	type	of	personal	data	processed,	the	categories	of	data	
subjects	concerned	and	the	duration	of	the	processing.	This	description	should	be	made	in	the	most	
detailed	possible	manner,	and,	in	any	circumstance,	the	types	of	personal	data	must	be	specified	
further	than	merely	“personal	data	as	defined	in	article	4(1)”	or	stating	which	category	(Article	6,	9	or	
10)	of	personal	data	is	subject	to	processing.	The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	it	should	be	clear	that	in	
case	 of	 several	 processing	 activities,	 these	 elements	 have	 to	 be	 completed	 for	 each	 of	 them.	 In	
addition,	 the	 Board	 is	 not	 convinced	 by	 the	 two	 first	 examples,	 as	 it	 is	 difficult	 to	 distinguish	 the	
purpose	to	the	nature	of	the	processing.	

4  CONCLUSIONS		

51. 

52. 

The	Board	very	much	welcomes	the	Danish	initiative	to	submit	their	draft	SCCs	for	an	opinion	which	
aim	at	contributing	to	an	harmonized	implementation	of	the	GDPR.		

The	Board	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	draft	SCCs	of	the	Danish	Supervisory	Authority	submitted	for	an	
opinion	need	further	adjustments	in	order	to	be	considered	as	standard	contractual	clauses.		The	
Board	 made	 several	 recommendations	 in	 its	 opinion	 here	 above.	 If	 all	 recommendations	 are	
implemented,	the	Danish	SA	will	be	able	to	use	this	draft	agreement	as	Standard	Contractual	Clauses	
pursuant	to	article	28.8	GDPR	without	any	need	for	a	subsequent	adoption	from	the	EU	Commission.	

5  FINAL	REMARKS	

53. 

This	opinion	is	addressed	to	Datatilsynet	(the	Danish	Supervisory	Authority)	and	will	be	made	public	
pursuant	to	Article	64	(5b)	GDPR.	

Adopted	

	

15	

54.  According	to	Article	64	(7)	and	(8)	GDPR,	the	supervisory	authority	shall	communicate	to	the	Chair	by	
electronic	means	within	two	weeks	after	receiving	the	opinion,	whether	it	will	amend	or	maintain	its	
draft	SCCs.	Within	the	same	period,	it	shall	provide	the	amended	draft	SCCs5	or	where	it	does	not	
intend	to	follow	the	opinion	of	the	Board,	it	shall	provide	the	relevant	grounds	for	which	it	does	not	
intend	to	follow	this	opinion,	in	whole	or	in	part.		

	

For	the	European	Data	Protection	Board		

The	Chair		

(Andrea	Jelinek)	

																																																													

5	The	supervisory	authority	shall	communicate	the	final	decision	to	the	Board	for	inclusion	in	the	register	of	
decisions,	which	have	been	subject	to	the	consistency	mechanism,	in	accordance	with	article	70	(1)	(y)	GDPR.	

Adopted	

	

16	

