28.03.2022
Penalty for GDPR violation

In March 2022, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the operator Condor SA and found a violation of the provisions of art. 32 para. (1), (2) and (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
As such, the operator was fined in the amount of 9,897.4 lei (equivalent to 2,000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of a notification through which it was complained that the operator Condor SA disclosed personal salary data of the employees or former employees of this operator to unauthorized persons.
During the investigation carried out, it was found that there was unauthorized access to some non-parole documents that contained a series of personal data of employees or former employees, such as: workplace, name, first name, position, employment salary, amount for advance payment, bank account, personal numerical codes.
Consequently, the National Supervisory Authority found that the operator Condor SA did not present evidence to show that it adopted sufficient technical and organizational measures to ensure the confidentiality of the processed personal data of its employees or former employees. At the same time, it was noted that the operator did not present evidence to show that the persons who process data under his authority were trained, which led to the unauthorized access of some documents. Thus, the provisions of art. 32 para. (1), (2), (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
At the same time, as part of the investigation, two corrective measures were applied to the operator, as follows:

 the corrective measure to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation of personal data processing operations, by implementing appropriate technical and organizational measures, including the training of persons who process data under its authority;
 the corrective measure to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation of personal data processing operations, by contacting the person who had unauthorized access to the respective personal data, in order to delete or destroy them, as the case may be.


Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.