Organisations asked to update the contact details of their Data Protection Officers


   


Publication date 
12.6.2025
 12.01


Type:Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";



 The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman is requesting organisations to check that the contact details of their Data Protection Officers communicated to the Office are up to date. If we do not receive updated details or a confirmation that the details are up to date by 13 July 2025, we will erase the data. The controller and processor of personal data are obliged to communicate the contact details of the Data Protection Officer to the supervisory authority. The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman maintains a list of the contact details so that we can contact the Data Protection Officers directly in matters related to the processing of personal data. As the controller of the data protection officers’ contact details, we are required to ensure that inaccurate and incorrect personal data are erased or rectified without delay. The Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman has sent a request to Data Protection Officers to confirm that their contact details are up to date or communicate any changes to the Office by 13 July. The request has been sent to the e-mail address provided to the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman on 12 and 13 June. If you have not received the request, you can contact our registry at tietosuoja(at)om.fi. If the data is not confirmed or updated, we will erase it. More detailed instructions for the organisation that appointed the Data Protection Officer and its management More information on the processing of Data Protection Officers’ personal data Additional information: the registry of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, tietosuoja(at)om.fi Updated 13 June 2025 at 11.05: Complementary information on the request and instructions for action. 












contact information
data
data protection officers
information
knowledge
occupations
occupations


