1/12

 File No.: PS/00467/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 10, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against UNIÓN
FINANCIERA ASTURIANA S.A. E.F.C. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the
Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: PS/00467/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated May 17,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against Unión Financiera Asturiana S.A. E.F.C. with CIF
A33053984 (hereinafter the claimed part). The grounds on which the claim is based
are the following.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

The claim states that the claimed entity has consulted your data in
the Asnef file without any contractual relationship.

Together with the claim, it provides, to prove these facts, the following
documentation:

-

Report from the credit information system with the query made by the
claimed on February 24, 2021.

- Response of the party complained against to its suppression request of April 26,
2021 in which they inform that they do not carry out any treatment of their data
personal and that your data is blocked, not reporting the reason for the
consultation in February 2021.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The respondent, in his brief dated July 7, 2021, has submitted the following
information: that the claimant was the holder of two commercial loan agreements
canceled in advance by him with dates 05/05/2017 and 03/28/2018. attach
as document number one, a copy of the applications for both credits,
duly signed by the claimant.

They add that in addition to the information provided in the credit application, in
both commercial loan contracts, its ninth clause (9th) enables Unión
Financiera Asturiana for the treatment of the minimum necessary data of the holder,
to send you information about the entity itself, by establishing that "the data may be
kept in the files of the FINANCING COMPANY even once all
contractual relationship with the BORROWER/S exclusively for remittance of the
information, carrying out the prospecting previously planned and, in all
case, during the legally established periods, or disposition of authorities

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

administrative or judicial. Attach as document number two, a copy of the
general conditions of both contracts.

On the other hand, they point out that on February 24, 2021, and within the framework of a selection
of clients of the Asturian Financial Union, proceeded to consult the DNI of the
complainant in the Asnef file, in order to send you information, in relation to the
possibility of accessing new credit operations, commercial information that
final was not sent, since the promotion was withdrawn.

On the other hand, they indicate that on April 22 of this year, they received the request for
deletion of claimant data. Attach a copy of this, as document number
three.

Likewise, they state that having verified that it did not maintain any operation
in force, and that the operations of which he was the holder were duly cancelled,
erroneously proceeded to inform him that no treatment of
your data, as the data derived from the operations is duly blocked.

They state that said request was answered by human error, without verifying that
By virtue of clause 9 of the contracts, Asturian Financial Union,
was authorized to process the minimum necessary data of the owner,
to send you information about the entity itself. And that, with that authorization,
proceeded to consult the credit information file, in order to
update your creditworthiness and feasibility of being included in a general campaign of
Commercial information.

However, they point out that said procedure was finally not carried out.

They indicate that they replied to the claimant that the data was blocked, without
warn you of the treatment carried out, and accessing according to your request, to
also suppress any treatment for commercial purposes.

On the other hand, they state that the Asturian Financial Union has proceeded to correct the
response erroneously sent to the claimant last April, review the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

access profiles to the internal applications of the Asturian Financial Union to the
employees who, within the Customer Service Department, must attend to the
exercises of law derived from the specific data protection regulations,
refresh such staff, the obligations of a data controller
personal data, before the exercise of a right by a holder and to review the
circuit to follow before the exercise of a right of suppression by the owner of the
personal data to know if you are or have been a client, if there are requests for
suppression and/or cancellation, previous, if there are previous requests, the meaning of the
same, and if the holder has opposed or revoked the consent for the treatment
of your data, for purposes other than those strictly derived from the relationship
contract from which the processing of your data derives.

Finally, they state that there has been no intention on the part of the defendant
in the incident that gives rise to this claim, due to an error
human in the processing of the request for deletion of the owner. mistake that was
communicated to the holder himself by telephone, and which is reiterated in writing,
attending to your request and also proceeding to block your data, without
they may be treated for purposes other than those listed in article
32 of LO 3/2018 of December 5.

THIRD: On September 21, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

          Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the party

claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD.

Whenever it does not prove the legitimacy for the treatment of the data of the

claimant.

It is stated in the statements made by the respondent in his brief
dated July 7, 2021 to this Agency that processed the claimant's data without
legitimacy for it, given that they were already blocked. As it
confirmed in the answer given to the claimant on April 26, 2021, in response to his request for
deletion of your personal data. However, despite being blocked
consulted the Asnef common credit information file on February 24,
2021.

They allege that said query was due to a human error in the
processing of the request for deletion of the owner to make an offer because there was
been a client of the respondent party, but it is found that the respondent party did not offer
the possibility of being able to oppose the use of your data for advertising purposes. Namely,
consent to the processing of data for commercial purposes
independent of the rest of the treatments derived from the loan contract.

Respect for the principle of legality that is in the essence of the fundamental right
of protection of personal data requires that it be accredited that the
responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that
extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

v

          In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

          "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of

the infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to be imposed
in the present case, the party claimed is considered responsible for an infringement
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, in an initial assessment, concurrent
the following factors.

As aggravating the following:

-
The intentionality or negligence in the infringement. Since they consulted the data of the
claimant despite being blocked and not given the option to object to the use
of your data for advertising purposes (article 83.2 b).

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the person claimed and

set it at the amount of €15,000 for the infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

1.

START SANCTION PROCEDURE a FINANCIAL UNION
ASTURIANA S.A. E.F.C. with CIF A33053984, for the alleged infringement of the
article 6.1. of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

2. APPOINT D.B.B.B. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of 1
October, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

3.

INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, the
information requirements that the General Subdirectorate of Inspection of
Data sent to the claimed entity.

4. THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the sanction that could correspond would be 15,000 euros
(fifteen thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

5. NOTIFY this agreement to UNIÓN FINANCIERA ASTURIANA S.A.
E.F.C. with CIF A33053984, granting a hearing period of ten days
able to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that
deem convenient. In your statement of arguments, you must provide your
NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading of this
document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

established at 12,000 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 12,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 9,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts

indicated above, 12,000 euros or 9,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On November 18, 2021, the claimed party has proceeded to
payment of the sanction in the amount of 9,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00467/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the ASTURIAN FINANCIAL UNION
S.A. E.F.C.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

936-160721

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

