 

     Brussels, 12 September 2022 
Ref.: OUT2022 -0068 

 
 
Dear President Metsola,  
Your Excellency Hrdá,  
 
We,  the  Members  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  and  the  European  Data 
Protection Supervisor (EDPS),  are writing to you regarding the  2023 budget, to  call upon your 
support.  We  are  deeply  concerned  that  this  budget,  if  not  substantially  increased,  would  be 
significantly too low to allow the EDPB and the EDPS to fulfil their tasks appropriately, as required 
by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Regulation 2018/1725  (EUDPR). 
 
The EDPB budget forms part of the broader budget of the EDPS*. The budget devoted to the EDPB 
for 2022 represents 6 812 000 euros and covers all aspects related to the functioning of the Board. 
This includes and is not limited to expenditure related to EDPB meetings at plenary and subgroup 
level, translation and interpretation costs, IT services, and remuneration of the EDPB Secretariat 
staff.  

 

The EDPB Secretariat supports the Members of the Board by providing analytical, administrative 
and  logistical  support.  In  particular,  it  is  responsible  for  the  settlement  of  disputes  between 
national  data  protection  authorities  (DPAs)  within  the  One-Stop-Shop  mechanism  on  draft 
decisions  concerning  private  sector  practices  that  may  include  fines  amounting  to  several 
hundreds of millions of euros. 
 
During the 2023 budget preparation, the EDPS made two consecutive budget proposals covering 
also  the  activities  of  the  EDPB,  which  were  both  rejected  by  the  European  Commission.  The 
second (reduced) proposal included a request for 8 additional staff members (4 officials and 4 
contractual agents) for the EDPB Secretariat in addition to its current 40 staff members, and 8 
additional staff members for EDPS itself (5 officials and 3 contractual agents). As for the EDPB 
only, the total requested budget for 2023 within this proposal was 7 766 000 euros. Although this 
would  represent an  increase of 14%  compared to  2022,  the budget  remained 17% below the 
ceilings of the EDPS contribution to the Multi-Annual Financial Framework, which was adopted in 
2020.  
 
The EDPB is essential for the implementation of the GDPR, one of the landmark EU legislations of 
the last decades, which regulates a very high number of organisations processing personal data, 
including  large  companies  such  as  big  tech,  SMEs,  and  the  public  sector.  There  are  high 
expectations from society at large regarding the GDPR, especially with regard to its enforcement 
vis-a-vis big tech. However, the EDPB Secretariat is currently understaffed and at risk of no longer 
being able to fulfil its legal duties at the service of the EDPB and of the GDPR.  
 
Should this happen, the enforcement of individuals’ data protection rights would be weakened 
and the credibility of the GDPR undermined.  

 
 

 
 
 
We call for your support in respect of the budget proposal, which aims at strengthening 3 essential 
pillars for the success of GDPR:  

• 

• 

• 

the  credibility of enforcement. As DPAs are developing their enforcement activities, this 
generates more disputes requiring the EDPB’s intervention, a unique responsibility in the 
EU digital regulatory governance landscape. If the EDPB cannot settle a dispute within 2 
months, the unilateral decision of  the Lead Supervisory Authority will prevail, not taking 
into account the objections made by other Concerned Supervisory Authorities;    
the robustness of enforcement, as higher fines will inevitably lead to more litigation. The 
EDPB decisions must therefore meet very high quality standards and be able to withstand 
the legal firing power of technology companies, both of which require sufficient EDPB staff; 
the predictability of the legal framework, as the EDPB must continue to issue guidance to 
ensure and promote the harmonised application of the GDPR.  
 

Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS continue to receive new tasks from the legislator. The EDPB 
will be entrusted with  the  coordination of the supervision of the EU’s large scale systems and 
agencies, while the EDPS is responsible for the actual supervision of the central components of 
the EU’s large scale systems and of the EU agencies. The number of these systems and agencies 
will increase from 4 to date, to 12 by 2023, including Europol’s information system, the Schengen 
system, the Visa information system, Eurodac and Etias. Moreover, the EDPS supervisory role and 
responsibilities on all European Institutions, bodies and agencies has increased considerably, also 
as a result of the expanded mandate of EUIs active in the Area of Freedom Security and Justice 
field (e.g. Europol) and the European Public Prosecution Office operations.  

 
Finally, the EDPB and EDPS are increasingly consulted by the European Commission on legislative 
proposals, a role we consider crucial to ensure that data protection rights are upheld as the EU 
shapes  its  digital  governance  landscape.  In  2021,  the  total  volume  of  legislative  consultations 
requests received by the EDPS essentially tripled in comparison to 2020, a trend which is expected 
to remain and grow in the future.  
 
In light of the above, we  strongly urge your support for our budget requests which include  8 
additional staff members (4 officials and 4 contractual agents) for the EDPB Secretariat and 8 
additional staff members (5 official and 3 contractual agents) for the EDPS Secretariat. 
 
Fundamental  rights  are  not  to  be  taken  for  granted  and  require  the  appropriate  human  and 
financial resources to ensure their protection. We, as data protection authorities, are committed 
to working for the interests of individuals, and we hope you will share this commitment too. 
 
Yours sincerely, 
Dr Andrea Jelinek  
Dr Wojciech Wiewiórowski 
* References to the EDPS budget in this letter should be understood as also covering the EDPB Secretariat.  
 

Cc: 
Mr Didier REYNDERS, Commissioner for Justice 
Mr Johannes HAHN, Commissioner for Budget and Administration 
Mr Johan VAN OVERTVELDT, Chair, Committee on Budgets (BUDG)  
Ms Monika HOHLMEIER, Chair, Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT)  
Mr Juan Fernando LOPEZ AGUILAR, Chair, Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE)  
Mr. Niclas HERBST, Member of the European Parliament, rapporteur on Parliament’s estimates of revenue and 
expenditure for the financial year 2023 
Mr Serge DE BIOLLEY, Director for Justice, Secretariat General of the Council  
Mr Olivier MICOL, Head of data protection unit, Directorate General for Justice and Consumers, EU Commission
  
 
 
 

