 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDPB Plenary Meeting, 22-23 January 2019 

 

 

Opinion  01/2019  on  the  draft 
list  of  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  of  the  Principality  of  Liechtenstein 
regarding 
the 
requirement of a data protection impact assessment (Article 
35.4 GDPR) 

the  processing  operations  subject 

to 

 

 

Adopted on 23 January 2019 

 

Adopted 

 

1 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 5 

2.1 

2.2 

2.3 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list ................................................. 5 

Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list ................................................... 6 

Analysis of the draft list .......................................................................................................... 6 

BIOMETRIC DATA ................................................................................................................................ 6 

GENETIC DATA .................................................................................................................................... 6 

PROCESSING USING INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY ........................................................................................ 6 

SYSTEMATIC TRACKING ........................................................................................................................ 7 

COMBINING  OR  MATCHING  PERSONAL  DATA  OBTAINED  FROM  MULTIPLE  SOURCES  AND  FURTHER  PROCESSING 
THEREOF............................................................................................................................................ 7 

SYSTEMATIC WORKPLACE MONITORING .................................................................................................. 7 

EXCEPTIONS TO INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED TO THE DATA SUBJECT ACCORDING TO ARTICLE 14.5 GDPR ..... 7 

DENIAL OF SERVICE BASED (NOT SOLELY) ON AUTOMATED DECISION-MAKING (INCLUDING PROFILING) .............. 8 

PROCESSING  OF  PERSONAL  DATA  IF  THE  DATA  ARE  EVALUATED,  PROCESSED  AND  USED  BY  THE  AUTHORITIES 
CONCERNED AND FORWARDED TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES ........................................................... 8 

Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................... 8 

Final Remarks ................................................................................................................................. 9 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1a), (3) - (8) and Article 35 (1), (3), (4), (6) of the Regulation 
2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such 
data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having regard to Article 51 (1b) of Directive 2016/680 EU  on the protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, 
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and 
on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Council  Framework  Decision  2008/977/JHA 
(hereafter “Law Enforcement Directive”).  

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, as revised on 23 November 
2018, 

 

Whereas: 

(1)  The main  role  of  the  Board  is to  ensure  the consistent  application of the  Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to adopt a list of processing 
operations  subject  to  the  requirement  for  a  data  protection  impact  assessment  pursuant  to 
article 35.4 GDPR. The aim of this opinion is therefore to create a harmonised approach with regard 
to processing that is cross border or that can affect the free flow of personal data or natural person 
across  the  European  Union.  Even  though  the  GDPR  doesn’t  impose  a  single  list,  it  does  promote 
consistency.    The  Board  seeks  to  achieve  this  objective  in  its  opinions  firstly  by  requesting  SAs  to 
include some types of processing in their lists, secondly by requesting them to remove some criteria 
which the Board doesn’t consider as necessarily creating high risks for data subjects, and finally by 
requesting them to use some criteria in a harmonized manner. 

(2) With reference to Article 35 (4) and (6) GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall establish 
lists of the kind of processing operations which are subject to the requirement for a data protection 
impact assessment (hereinafter “DPIA”). They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism where 
such lists involve processing operations, which are related to the offering of goods or services to data 
subjects or to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States, or may substantially affect 
the free movement of personal data within the Union.  

 (3)  While  the  draft  lists  of  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  this  does  not  mean  that  the  lists  should  be  identical.  The  competent  supervisory 
authorities have a margin of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take 
into account their local legislation. The aim of the EDPB assessment/opinion is not to reach a single 
EU list but rather to avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect the equivalent protection of the 
data subjects. 

Adopted 

 

3 

 

(4) The carrying out of a DPIA is only mandatory for the controller pursuant to Article 35 (1) GDPR 
where  processing  is  “likely  to  result  in  a  high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons”. 
Article 35 (3) GDPR illustrates what is likely to result in a high risk. This is a non-exhaustive list. The 
Working Party 29 in the Guidelines on data protection impact assessment1, as endorsed by the EDPB2, 
has  clarified  criteria  that  can  help  to  identify  when  processing  operations  are  subject  to  the 
requirement  for  a  DPIA.  The  Working  Party  29  Guidelines  WP248  state  that  in  most  cases,  a  data 
controller can consider that a processing meeting two criteria would require a DPIA to be carried out, 
however, in some cases a data controller can consider that a processing meeting only one of these 
criteria requires a DPIA.  

 (5) The lists produced by the competent supervisory authorities support the same objective to identify 
processing operations likely to result in a high risk and processing operations, which therefore require 
a DPIA. As such, the criteria developed in the Working Party 29 Guidelines should be applied when 
assessing  whether  the  draft  lists  of  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  does  not  affect  the 
consistent application of the GDPR.   

(6) Twenty-two competent supervisory authorities received an opinion on their draft lists from the 
EDPB on 5 September 2018. A further 4 SAs received an opinion on their draft lists on 7 December 
2018.  

(7)  The  opinion of  the  EDPB  shall  be  adopted  pursuant  to  Article  64  (3)  GDPR  in  conjunction  with 
Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the 
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision 
of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of 
the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

The competent supervisory authority of the Principality of Liechtenstein has submitted its draft list to 
the EDPB. The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 29 October 2018.  

The period until which the opinion has to be adopted has been extended until 5 February 2019 taking 
into account the complexity of the subject matter, in particular the need to factor in the outcome of 
the review of the twenty-six draft lists previously submitted by competent supervisory authorities and 
the need for a global assessment of all of them.  

 

 

                                                           

1 WP29,  Guidelines  on  Data  Protection  Impact  Assessment  and  determining  whether  processing  is  “likely  to 
result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 (WP 248 rev. 01). 
2 EDPB, Endorsement 1/2018. 

Adopted 

 

4 

 

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list 

Any list submitted to the EDPB has been interpreted as further specifying Art 35.1, which will prevail 
in any case. Thus, no list can be exhaustive.  

In compliance with article 35.10 GDPR, the Board is of the opinion that if a DPIA has already been 
carried out as part of a general impact assessment in the context of the adoption of the legal basis the 
obligation to carry out a DPIA in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 7 of article 35 GDPR does not apply, 
unless the Member State deems it necessary. 

Further, if the Board requests a DPIA for a certain category of processing and an equivalent measure 
is  already  required  by  national  law,  the  Data  Protection  Office  of  the  Principality  of  Liechtenstein 
(hereafter Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority) shall add a reference to this measure. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority, which 
were deemed outside the scope of Article 35.6 GDPR. This refers to items that neither relate “to the 
offering of goods or services to data subjects” in several Member States nor to the monitoring of the 
behaviour of data subjects in several Member States. Additionally, they are not likely to “substantially 
affect  the  free movement of personal data within the  Union”. This is especially the case  for items 
relating to national legislation and in particular where the obligation to carry out a DPIA is stipulated 
in  national  legislation.  Further,  any  processing  operations  that  relate  to  law  enforcement  were 
deemed out of scope, as they are not in scope of the GDPR.  

The Board has noted that several supervisory authorities have included in their lists some types of 
processing  which  are  necessarily  local  processing.  Given  that  only  cross  border  processing  and 
processing that may affect the free flow of personal data and data subjects are concerned by Article 
35.6 GDPR, the Board will not comment on those local processing. 

The Board notes that types of processing which fall within the scope of the Law Enforcement Directive 
are by definition not subject to article 35.6 GDPR, however the Board may issue recommendations 
based on article 51 (1b) of the Law Enforcement Directive.  

The opinion aims at defining a consistent core of processing operations that are recurrent in the lists 
provided by the SAs.  

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

This  means  that,  for  a  limited  number  of  types  of  processing  operations  that  will  be  defined  in  a 
harmonised way, all the Supervisory Authorities will require a DPIA to be carried out and the Board 
will recommend the SAs to amend their lists accordingly in order to ensure consistency.  

11.  When this opinion remains silent on DPIA list entries submitted, it means that the Board is not asking 

the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority to take further action.   

12. 

Finally, the Board recalls that transparency is key for data controllers and data processors. In order to 
clarify the entries in the list, the Board is of the opinion that making an explicit reference in the lists, 
for each type of processing, to the criteria set out in the guidelines could improve this transparency. 
Therefore, the Board considers that an explanation on which criteria have been taken into account by 
the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority to create its list could be added. 

Adopted 

 

5 

 

2.2  Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list 

13. 

The draft list submitted by the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority relates to the offering of goods or 
services to data subjects, relates to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States and/or 
may substantially affect the free movement of personal data within the Union mainly because the 
processing operations in the submitted draft list are not limited to data subjects in this country. 

2.3  Analysis of the draft list 

14. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article 35 (1) GDPR requires a DPIA when the processing activity is likely to result in a high risk 

to the rights and freedoms of natural persons; and  

b.  Article 35 (3) GDPR provides a non-exhaustive list of types of processing that require a DPIA,  

the Board is of the opinion that: 

BIOMETRIC DATA 

15. 

16. 

17. 

The list submitted by the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board states, that 
the extensive processing of biometric data falls under the obligation to perform a DPIA on its own. 
The Board is of the opinion that the processing of biometric data is not necessarily likely to represent 
a high risk per se. However, the processing of biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a 
natural person in conjunction with at least one other criterion requires a DPIA to be carried out. The 
Board is of the opinion that the wording used to describe the type of processing is not clear enough. 
Either the extensive nature of the processing means that the processing is made on a large scale, in 
which case the description should be modified to clearly make a reference to this criterion, or it just 
means that the criterion is systematically used, in which case another criterion should be added to 
ensure consistency. 

GENETIC DATA 

The list submitted by the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board does not 
currently require a DPIA to be done for the processing of genetic data. The Board is of the opinion that 
the processing of genetic data is not necessarily likely to represent a high risk per se. However, the 
processing of genetic data in conjunction with at least one other criterion requires a DPIA to be carried 
out.  Therefore,  the  Board  requests  the  Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  to  amend  its  list 
accordingly, by adding explicitly the processing of genetic data in conjunction with at least one other 
criterion to its list, to be applied without prejudice to article 35(3) GDPR. 

PROCESSING USING INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY 

The list submitted by the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board envisages 
that the use of innovative technology, on its own, requires a DPIA. The Board is of the opinion that the 
use of innovative technology is not necessarily likely to represent a high risk per se. However, the use 
of innovative technology in conjunction with at least one other criterion requires a DPIA to be carried 
out.  Therefore,  the  Board  requests  the  Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  to  amend  its  list 
accordingly,  by  adding  that  the  item  requires  a  DPIA  to  be  carried  out  only  when  it  is  done  in 
conjunction with at least one other criterion. 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

SYSTEMATIC TRACKING 

18. 

19. 

The Board recalls that systematic tracking is a factor in determining the likelihood of high risk, however 
does not necessarily lead to a likely high risk per se. However, where systematic tracking occurs in 
conjunction with at least one other criterion, a DPIA should be carried out. The list submitted by the 
Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board does currently require a DPIA to be 
carried out when systematic tracking of data subjects occurs. The Board requests the Liechtenstein 
Supervisory Authority to amend its list accordingly, by requiring a DPIA to be carried out in cases of 
systematic  tracking  of  data  subjects  only  when  it  is  done  in  conjunction  with  at  least  one  other 
criterion. 

COMBINING  OR  MATCHING  PERSONAL  DATA  OBTAINED  FROM  MULTIPLE  SOURCES  AND  FURTHER 
PROCESSING THEREOF 

The Board recalls that matching or combining datasets is a factor in determining the likelihood of high 
risk, however in its view combining or matching of personal data obtained from multiple sources does 
not lead to a likely high risk per se. The Board further recalls that in its view further processing of 
personal data should not be a criterion leading to an obligation to do a DPIA, alone or with another 
criterion. The list submitted by the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board 
does currently require a DPIA to be carried out when combining or matching of personal data obtained 
from multiple sources and further processing thereof occurs. The Board requests the Liechtenstein 
Supervisory Authority to amend its list accordingly, by requiring a DPIA to be carried out in  case of 
combining  or  matching  of  personal  data  obtained  from  multiple  sources  only  when  occurring  in 
conjunction with at least one other criterion. 

SYSTEMATIC WORKPLACE MONITORING 

20. 

The Board takes note of the inclusion of “systematic workplace monitoring” in the Liechtenstein DPIA 
list. The Board recalls that in its view WP249 of the Article 29 working party remain valid when defining 
the concept of systematic processing of employee data. 

EXCEPTIONS TO INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED TO THE DATA SUBJECT ACCORDING TO ARTICLE 14.5 
GDPR 

21. 

The Board is of the opinion that types of processing activities that could deprive the data subjects from 
their  rights  do  not  represent  a  high  risk  per  se.  Therefore,  a  processing  activity  conducted  by  the 
controller under article 14 GDPR and where the information to be given to the data subjects is subject 
to an exemption under article 14.5 (b) could require a DPIA to be carried out only in conjunction with 
at  least  one  other  criterion.  The  list  submitted  by  the  Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  for  an 
opinion of the Board does currently require a DPIA to be done for the processing of data where article 
14(5), para (b) applies extensively. The Board is of the opinion that the wording used to describe the 
type of processing is not clear enough. Either the extensive nature of the processing means that the 
processing is made on a large scale, in which case the description should be modified to clearly make 
a reference to this criterion, or it just means that the criterion is systematically used, in which case 
another criterion should be added to ensure consistency.  

Adopted 

 

7 

 

22. 

23. 

DENIAL  OF  SERVICE  BASED  (NOT  SOLELY)  ON  AUTOMATED  DECISION-MAKING  (INCLUDING 
PROFILING) 

The list submitted by the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board states, that 
the processing activities which lead to a denial of service, when based, but not solely, on an automated 
decision (including profiling) fall under the obligation to perform a DPIA. The Board is of the opinion 
that the reference to automated decision-making does not count as a second criterion in this case, 
since the description states that the processing which include a human intervention are also included. 
This means that any processing that end up with a denial of service are subject to the obligation to do 
a  DPIA.  The  Board  therefore  requests  the  Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  to  amend  its  list 
accordingly, by adding that the item referencing the processing which may lead to denial of service 
based (not solely) on automated decision-making (including profiling) requires a DPIA to be carried 
out only when it is done in conjunction with at least one other criterion.  

PROCESSING  OF  PERSONAL  DATA  IF  THE  DATA  ARE  EVALUATED,  PROCESSED  AND  USED  BY  THE 
AUTHORITIES CONCERNED AND FORWARDED TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES 

The list submitted by the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority for an opinion of the Board states, that 
the processing activities which are further transmitted to law enforcement fall under the obligation 
to perform a DPIA. The Board takes note that those processing operations will not always fall within 
the scope of the Law Enforcement Directive: whistle blowing processing for example, will fall under 
this criterion and will therefore require a DPIA. The Board acknowledges that the fact that data will 
likely be forwarded to law enforcement authorities can be a factor in determining the likelihood of 
high risk, however it does not necessarily lead to a likely high risk per se. The Board therefore requests 
the  Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  to  amend  its  list  accordingly,  by  adding  that  the  item 
referencing the processing when data are evaluated, processed and used by the authorities concerned 
and forwarded to law enforcement authorities requires a DPIA to be carried out only when it is done 
in conjunction with at least one other criterion.  

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

24. 

The draft list of the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent application of the 
requirement for a DPIA and the following changes need to be made:   

  Regarding  biometric  data:  the  Board  requests  the  Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  to 
amend its list by adding explicitly the processing of biometric data for the purpose of uniquely 
identifying a natural person in conjunction with at least one other criterion to its list; 

  Regarding genetic data: the Board requests the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority to amend 
its list by adding explicitly the processing of genetic data in conjunction with at least one other 
criterion to its list; 

  Regarding  processing  using  new  or  innovative  technology:  the  Board  requests  the 
Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority to amend its list by adding that the item requires a DPIA 
to be carried out only when it is done in conjunction of at least one other criterion; 

  Regarding systematic tracking: the Board requests the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority to 
amend its list by adding that the item requires a DPIA to be carried out only when it is done in 
conjunction with at least one other criterion; 

Adopted 

 

8 

 

  Regarding combining or matching of personal data obtained from multiple sources and further 
processing thereof: the Board requests the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority to amend its 
list by firstly removing the reference to further processing and secondly by adding that the 
item requires a DPIA to be carried out only when it is done in conjunction with at least one 
other criterion; 

  Regarding exceptions to information to be provided to the data subject according to Art. 14.5 
GDPR: the Board request the Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority to amend its list either by 
clarifying that the extensive nature of the processing means that the processing is made on a 
large scale or, if it just means that the criterion is systematically used, by adding that the item 
requires a DPIA to be carried out only when it is done in conjunction with at least one other 
criterion; 

  Regarding  denial  of  service  based  (not  solely)  on  automated  decision  making  (including 
profiling):  the  Board  requests  the  Liechtenstein  Supervisory  Authority  to  amend  its  list  by 
adding that the item requires a DPIA to be carried out only when it is done in conjunction with 
at least one other criterion; 

  Regarding  the  data  evaluated,  processed  and  used  by  the  authorities  concerned  and 
forwarded to law enforcement authorities: the Board requests the Liechtenstein Supervisory 
Authority to amend its list by adding that the item requires a DPIA to be carried out only when 
it is done in conjunction with at least one other criterion 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

25. 

This  opinion  is  addressed  to  the  Data  Protection  Office  of  the  Principality  of  Liechtenstein 
(Liechtenstein Supervisory Authority) and will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5b) GDPR. 

26.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by 
electronic means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its 
draft list. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend 
to follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend 
to follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

 

9 

