

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in the Customs Information System (General Directorate of Customs)



Based on its inspection plan, the Office carried out an inspection pursuant to Act No. 101/2000 Coll., the subject of which was the processing of personal data in the Customs Information System (CIS). The protection of personal data in the CIS is governed in particular by Council Regulation (EC) No. 515/97 of 13 March 1997 on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the Member States and their cooperation with the Commission to ensure the proper application of customs and agricultural regulations and Council Decision 2009/ 917/SVV of November 30, 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes. Pursuant to Article 37(1) of Regulation No. 515/97, each Member State shall designate a national supervisory authority which is obliged to carry out independent supervision of personal data entered in the CIS. The Office carried out a regular audit focused on the fulfillment of the duties of the administrator of personal data processed within CIS and the Identification Database of Customs Files (FIDE), including ensuring the protection of this data and checking the setting of rules for their storage, processing and disposal.



The inspection proved that the inspected person processes personal data of data subjects in CIS and FIDE in accordance with legal regulations. The purpose of the CIS is to help prevent and investigate and prosecute serious breaches of the law through faster access to information that strengthens the effectiveness of Member States' customs cooperation and control procedures. The purpose of FIDE is to enable Member States competent authorities for customs investigations, when they initiate or carry out investigations on certain persons, as well as Europol and Eurojust, to find out which competent authorities of other Member States are conducting or have conducted investigations on certain persons. The existence of the CIS and FIDE database results directly from legal regulations. The rights and obligations of the administrator are also determined by legal regulations. As part of the inspection, the Office evaluated the technical and organizational measures taken by the inspected person to ensure the protection of personal data as sufficient.



The Office did not detect a violation of legal regulations in connection with the processing of personal data in question.


The inspection was conducted by the inspector PhDr. Petr Krejci.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of personal data processing in the Customs Information System (General Directorate of Customs) View Current Documents | document archive | documents including the archive



