1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00398/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated May 22, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against SOLUCIONES Y SERVICIOS ANDUNAS, S.L. with
NIF B72316102 (hereinafter, the claimed).

The grounds on which the claim is based are that, when making a call
interested in the status of an order, the data controller has
proceeded to record said call without previously informing of said circumstance.

The recording is provided in which they are informed that they are recording the call, without making any
type of allusion to the regulations on data protection.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/04049/2020, transfer of
said claim to the claimed party, on June 18, 2020, so that he could proceed with his
analysis and report to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: On February 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
pleadings in which, in summary, it stated the following:

“No legal precept of the RGPD has been infringed, not even article 13 that
This Agency states that the claimed infringes.

The claimed entity is a company dedicated to the online sale of material
therefore, the contracting and processing of data, as well as the
information to the client regarding the processing of personal data is made at the time
to formalize the purchase, in writing and online.

Proof of the moment in which the company obtained from the interested party the
personal data related to this, as well as, at the same time in which it is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

provided all the information required by the aforementioned article 13 of the RGPD. Moment
which in any case was prior to the telephone call, therefore, and by virtue of the
section 4 of article 13 of the RGPD “The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 do not
will be applicable when and to the extent that the interested party already has the
information.”, the company has not violated the data protection regulations, the
data were collected at a time prior to the call made, same
moment in which the legal information is provided to the interested party, which is why the
The interested party already had the mandatory information since the contracting of his order
required by said regulations.”

The entity claimed states that "the same complainant recognizes these extremes
when he expressly states that "he made a call to inquire about the
status of your order” since the customer gets in touch to inquire about a
request, solely and exclusively, not proceeding to carry out data processing
any in said conversation.”

It is also alleged by the respondent that "she does not make recordings because there is no reason
one for which the company needs to record calls
telephone calls with their clients, because the terms of the contract and the sale are
formalized online, and in the same way personal data is collected and informed
the contracting client of all the mandatory information.

However, in the hypothetical case that the telephone conversation had not
adequately provided the interested party with the information required by the regulations
legal, the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD will not be applicable, since, the
The call was after the moment in which the data was actually collected.
information and current legal information on data protection was provided
to the interested party."

FIFTH: On March 16, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/04049/2020, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: On March 22, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that it be imposed on SOLUCIONES Y SERVICIOS ANDUNAS, S.L., with
NIF B72316102, for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: A recording is made in which they are informed that the call is being recorded, without
make any allusion to the regulations on data protection.

SECOND: The claimed entity denies the realization of the recording of the
call, despite the fact that in the recording provided by the claimant, the operator affirms
that it is being recorded.

The respondent company alleges that even if it had recorded the call, it was not
they took personal data, but listening to the recording provided reveals
that the name and surnames of the claimant were provided, and the email was verified
claimant's email.

THIRD: The entity complained against has demonstrated that it provides the information of the
article 13 of the RGPD to your customers on your website when they make a purchase, which
It is the moment in which they obtain the data of their clients.

In addition, it is verified that in the telephone communications the entity claimed did not
obtains new personal data from its customers, so as already
informed of data processing at the time of purchase do not have to
re-report it.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

The defendant was charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of article 13
of the RGPD, because the claimant when making a call inquiring about the situation
of an order, the data controller has proceeded to record said call without
report this circumstance in advance, which entailed a violation of article
83.5 b) of the GDPR.

III

It has been verified that the facts denounced do not imply a violation of article
13 of the RGPD because the claimed entity provides the information required in the
mentioned article to your customers, when they make a purchase through your page
Web.

Therefore, it is stated that in the telephone communications the claimed entity does not
obtains new personal data from its customers, so as already

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

informed of the treatment of the data obtained at the time of purchase was not
requires them to report again.

Therefore, after learning of these facts, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and claimed.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

