Legal Office  
N/REF: 0085/2021  

Having examined your request for a report, submitted to this Legal Office, regarding the Draft Law on Digital Efficiency Measures of the Public Justice Service, which transposes into Spanish law Directive (EU) 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of June 20, 2019, which amends Directive (EU) 2017/1132 concerning the use of digital tools and processes in the field of corporate law, requested urgently from this Spanish Agency for Data Protection (AEPD) in accordance with the provisions of Article 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the protection of personal data and the guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD), in relation to Article 57.1, letter c), of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, and the free movement of such data, and which repeals Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), and 5 b) of the Statute of the Agency, approved by Royal Decree 389/2021, of June 1, I am obliged to inform you of the following:  

Before proceeding to analyze the text submitted for the report, it is necessary to point out that, given the legal basis of the report that will be immediately issued and its mandatory nature, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned regulations, it should be indicated in the Explanatory Memorandum of the regulation that it has been submitted to the prior report of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.  

As stated in the Explanatory Memorandum and the Regulatory Impact Analysis Report, the draft law continues to support the digital transformation initiated by the regulations that preceded it, particularly Law 18/2011, of July 5, regulating the use of information technologies by citizens and professionals in their relations with the Administration of Justice, and whose implementation process has been accelerated as a consequence of the COVID-19 Pandemic, with new measures in areas such as the telematic holding of hearings and other procedural acts, which were included in Law 3/2020, of September 18, on procedural and organizational measures to address COVID-19 in the field of the Administration of Justice.  

With these precedents, the draft law aims to be "a comprehensive, useful, transversal legal tool with sufficient capacity to provide the Courts with a coherent and logical legal framework in which the digital relationship is discovered as an ordinary and habitual relationship, with effective judicial protection being the same, but finding under this coverage of norms and rules, a new channel that is faster and more efficient, which will contribute to a better satisfaction of citizens' rights," thus "it stands as an instrument to promote and facilitate:  
- The intervention of citizens in judicial proceedings through digital immediacy systems, simplifying the relationship with the Administration of Justice.  
- The relationship between the various operators (judicial bodies, professionals, and collaborators) with the Administration of Justice, as they are all responsible, to their extent, for the proper functioning of the Public Justice Service (integrated under the widespread use of the Electronic Judicial File, a central tool for understanding Digital Justice)."  

Furthermore, it aims to reduce the timeframes for issuing a judicial resolution, for which "the technological processing of the file is enhanced through the performance of actions with automated management, subject to appeal and based on objective and public legal criteria."  

On the other hand, another important objective pursued is "the immediate obtaining and intelligent use of data," for which "there is a clear and decisive commitment to the rational use of the same as evidence and certainty in the service of planning and developing strategies that contribute to a better and more effective public policy of Justice."  

In this regard, it is noteworthy that one of the key axes of the reform is the "data orientation," as the Explanatory Memorandum states, "the Electronic Judicial File is enhanced through a paradigm shift, moving from document orientation to data orientation. This represents a significant advance compared to Law 18/2011, of July 5, regulating the use of information and communication technologies in the Administration of Justice, which a decade ago aimed at the transition from paper to digital, now aiming to achieve substantial improvements already in the digital environment."  

In summary, as outlined in the MAIN, "the draft law stands as an instrument to:  
ü Establish the rules and provide legal coverage for the digital transformation of the Public Justice Service, ensuring the existence of a plurality of digital services accessible to citizens, orienting the data systems of Justice and reinforcing digital legal security."  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
2
Legal Office
ü Enable remote work for Judges, Prosecutors, Legal Advisors of the Administration of Justice, Forensic Doctors, and other officials serving the Administration of Justice.
ü Ensure interoperability, both within the Administration of Justice and between it and the other Public Administrations; ensuring the processing of data for judicial statistics, decision-making, and publicity in open data format.
ü Guarantee the right of access to Justice for all citizens.
ü Provide the best possible public service to citizens, reducing the difficulties that may arise from the use of technology itself.

On the other hand, the draft bill proceeds with the incorporation into our Law of Directive (EU) 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of June 20, 2019, which amends Directive (EU) 2017/1132 regarding the use of digital tools and processes in the field of company law, known as the “Company Digitalization Directive” or “Digital Tools Directive,” which requires the modification of the current telematic constitution regime in our legal system in certain aspects, in order to comply with the mandate of the European legislator to contemplate a fully online procedure, applicable both at the time of incorporation and to subsequent corporate modifications and the registration of branches by applicants who are citizens of the European Union. This is addressed by the modifications introduced in the Commercial Code, in the consolidated text of the Capital Companies Act (TRLSC), and in the Regulation of the Commercial Registry (RRM).

Finally, it is particularly important to highlight, due to its impact on this Agency, the modifications that the fourteenth final provision introduces in certain provisions, all of them of ordinary rank, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights, due to the correction of errors of the European Regulation on Data Protection published in the Official Journal of the European Union on March 4, 2021, and consequently the elimination of the warning from the catalog of sanctions to be imposed on controllers and processors, replacing it with the issuance of a requirement. Additionally, the reform introduces a new article that enables and regulates the conduct of investigative actions through digital systems, and increases the maximum duration of the sanctioning procedure from nine to twelve months, and from twelve to eighteen months for preliminary investigative actions. Lastly, a provision is introduced regarding the notification of the admission to processing in those procedures with a high number of complaints, and the establishment of mandatory complaint models before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

I
Regarding the matter of personal data protection, the standard to which the draft bill must conform is Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, which repeals Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR), fully applicable since May 25, 2018, as well as Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the guarantee of digital rights and, where applicable, Organic Law 7/2021, of May 26, on the protection of personal data processed for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, and prosecution of criminal offenses and the enforcement of criminal sanctions.

As highlighted in the background, the draft law subject to this report contains an ambitious project aimed at the digital transformation of the Public Justice Service, which will have a significant impact on the processing of personal data of natural persons, given the breadth with which this concept is covered in Article 4.1 of the GDPR, and which will also affect special categories of data, criminal data, and administrative sanctions, which are subject to greater protection due to the greater impact of such data on the rights, freedoms, and interests of the affected parties.

Therefore, the first conclusion reached is that the protection of personal data must be one of the basic principles that should guide the use of information technologies in this area, reiterated in all articles that refer to the applicable principles in this field. Likewise, the right to the protection of personal data must be recognized as a right of citizens and professionals who interact with the Administration of Justice.

II
In accordance with Article 236 bis of Organic Law 6/1985, of July 1, on the Judiciary:
1. The processing of personal data may be carried out for jurisdictional or non-jurisdictional purposes. Jurisdictional purposes will have...
Legal Office
the processing of data that is incorporated into the processes aimed at the exercise of jurisdictional activity.
2. The processing of personal data in the Administration of Justice will be carried out by the competent body and, within it, by those who have the competence attributed by the current regulations. Therefore, it must be taken into account that the processing carried out in the field of the Administration of Justice may have jurisdictional purposes, which determines the competence in data protection matters of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and non-jurisdictional purposes, the competence of this AEPD (Article 236 octies of the LOPJ), so coordinated participation of all these authorities in the drafting of this regulation would be desirable.
III
Without prejudice to the above, for the proper compliance with data protection regulations, it must start from the principle of proactive responsibility and data protection by design and by default, as set out in Article 25 of the GDPR:
1. Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of implementation, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity that the processing entails for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall apply, both at the time of determining the means of processing and at the time of the processing itself, appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymization, designed to effectively apply the principles of data protection, such as data minimization, and integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing, in order to comply with the requirements of this Regulation and protect the rights of the data subjects.
2. The data controller shall apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that, by default, only personal data that is necessary for each specific purpose of the processing is processed. This obligation shall apply to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of its processing, its retention period, and its accessibility. Such measures shall ensure in particular that, by default, personal data is not accessible, without the intervention of the individual, to an indeterminate number of natural persons.
3. An approved certification mechanism in accordance with Article 42 may be used as an element that certifies compliance with the obligations established in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
5
Legal Office
In this regard, it should be noted that the GDPR has brought about a paradigm shift in addressing the regulation of the right to personal data protection, which is now based on the principle of "accountability" or "proactive responsibility," as repeatedly pointed out by the AEPD (Report 17/2019, among many others) and is included in the Preamble of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD): “the greatest novelty presented by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is the evolution from a model fundamentally based on compliance control to one that rests on the principle of active responsibility, which requires a prior assessment by the data controller or the processor of the risk that the processing of personal data may generate, in order to adopt the appropriate measures based on that assessment.” Within this new system, it is the data controller who, through the instruments regulated in the GDPR itself, such as the record of processing activities, risk analysis, or data protection impact assessment, must ensure the protection of this right by complying with all the principles set out in Article 5.1 of the GDPR, adequately documenting all decisions made in order to demonstrate compliance.

Furthermore, based on this principle of proactive responsibility, aimed essentially at the data controller, and in order to strengthen the protection of data subjects, the GDPR has introduced new obligations that are enforceable not only against the controller but, in certain cases, also against the processor, who may be sanctioned in the event of non-compliance.

Therefore, while the main addressees of the obligations set out in the GDPR are the controllers and processors, their observance necessitates the adoption of certain behaviors by the national legislator, in order to ensure compliance with the GDPR and, ultimately, the adoption of sufficient guarantees for the protection of the fundamental right, particularly when it comes to processing of personal data legitimized as a result of compliance with legal obligations or for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or the exercise of public powers, as is the case here.

This possibility is expressly recognized in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 6 of the GDPR:
2. Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions in order to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation regarding processing in compliance with paragraph 1, letters c) and e), establishing more specific conditions.
Legal Office
specifies specific requirements for processing and other measures that
ensure lawful and fair processing, including other specific processing situations in accordance with Chapter IX. 
3. The basis for the processing indicated in paragraph 1, letters c) and e),
must be established by: 
a) Union Law, or 
b) the Law of the Member States applicable to the data controller. 
The purpose of the processing must be determined in that legal basis or, with respect to the processing referred to in paragraph 1, letter e), it will be necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller. This legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation, including: the general conditions governing the lawfulness of the processing by the controller; the types of data subject to processing; the affected data subjects; the entities to which personal data may be communicated and the purposes of such communication; the limitation of purpose; the data retention periods, as well as the operations and procedures of the processing, including measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, such as those related to other specific processing situations in accordance with Chapter IX. Union Law or the Law of the Member States will fulfill a public interest objective and will be proportional to the legitimate aim pursued.
Furthermore, Article 4, after defining in its paragraph 7 the “data controller” or “controller” as “the natural or legal person, public authority, service, or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing,” adds that “if Union Law or the Law of the Member States determines the purposes and means of the processing, the data controller or the specific criteria for their appointment may be established by Union Law or the Law of the Member States.”
On the other hand, Article 35 regulates the data protection impact assessment (DPIA), stating that “When it is likely that a type of processing, particularly if it uses new technologies, by its nature, scope, context, or purposes, poses a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall carry out, prior to the processing, an assessment of the impact of the processing operations on the protection of personal data. A single assessment may address a series of similar processing operations that pose similar high risks.” However, this provision provides that the DPIA has been previously carried out by the legislator in its paragraph 10:
10. When the processing in accordance with Article 6, paragraph 1, letters c) or e), has its legal basis in Union Law or in the
Legal Office
The law of the member state that applies to the data controller, provided that such law regulates the specific operation of processing or set of operations in question, and a data protection impact assessment has already been carried out as part of a general impact assessment in the context of the adoption of such legal basis, paragraphs 1 to 7 shall not apply unless member states deem it necessary to proceed with such assessment prior to the processing activities.

Furthermore, it should be noted that, in the event that the obligation is imposed by a domestic law, it must have the rank of law, as required by Article 53.1 of the Constitution, as expressly stated in Article 8.1 of the LOPDGDD, adding that "it may determine the general conditions of processing and the types of data subject to it, as well as the transfers that may arise as a consequence of compliance with the legal obligation. This norm may also impose special conditions on processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679."

In these cases, the doctrine of the Constitutional Court regarding the necessity for the law that legitimizes the processing of personal data to include the necessary guarantees must be taken into account, which has also been emphasized by the Court of Justice of the European Union.

In this regard, the Constitutional Court, in its rulings 292/2000 of November 30 and 76/2019 of May 22, establishes the doctrine according to which limits on the fundamental right to the protection of personal data must be established by a norm with the rank of law, following the legislator's weighing of conflicting interests in accordance with the principle of proportionality, defining each and every one of the material prerequisites of the limiting measure through precise rules, which make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences foreseeable to the interested party, and establishing adequate guarantees, with the law itself containing the appropriate guarantees against the collection of personal data it authorizes.

The Constitutional Court (TC) has been clear that the provision of adequate guarantees cannot be deferred to a moment subsequent to the legal regulation of the personal data processing in question. The adequate guarantees must be incorporated into the legal regulation of the processing itself, either directly or by express and perfectly delineated reference to external sources that possess the appropriate normative rank. Only this understanding is compatible with the dual requirement that arises from Article 53.1 CE (...). It is evident that if the norm included a reference for the integration of the law with the adequate guarantees established in norms of lower rank than the law, it would be considered a delegalization that...
Legal Office
sacrifices the legal reserve under Article 53.1 of the Spanish Constitution, and, for this sole reason, it should be declared unconstitutional and null. (…). It is ultimately about “adequate guarantees of a technical, organizational, and procedural nature, which prevent risks of different probabilities and severities and mitigate their effects, as only in this way can respect for the essential content of the fundamental right itself be sought.” It is therefore not sufficient for the law to refer to the GDPR itself or to the LOPDGDD for the establishment of such adequate and specific guarantees.

Furthermore, this law must, in any case, respect the principle of proportionality, as recalled by the Constitutional Court Judgment 14/2003, of January 28:
“In other words, in accordance with a reiterated doctrine of this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure of fundamental rights is determined by the strict observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes that matter here, it suffices to recall that, to determine whether a restrictive measure of a fundamental right passes the proportionality test, it is necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three requirements or conditions: whether the measure is capable of achieving the proposed objective (suitability test); whether, furthermore, it is necessary, in the sense that there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such purpose with equal effectiveness (necessity test); and, finally, whether it is balanced or proportionate, as it derives more benefits or advantages for the general interest than harms to other conflicting goods or values (strict proportionality test; Constitutional Court Judgments 66/1995, of May 8 [RTC 1995, 66], F. 5; 55/1996, of March 28 [RTC 1996, 55], FF. 7, 8, and 9; 270/1996, of December 16 [RTC 1996, 270], F. 4.e; 37/1998, of February 17 [RTC 1998, 37], F. 8; 186/2000, of July 10 [RTC 2000, 186], F. 6).”
The same doctrine is upheld by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). Thus, while Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union recognizes the right of every person to the protection of personal data concerning them, Article 52.1 recognizes that this right is not unlimited and allows for the limitation of the exercise of those rights and freedoms recognized by the Charter, a limitation that must be established by law and respect the essential content of the same.

Well, the CJEU Judgment of October 6, 2020, in the joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18, and C-520/18, La Quadrature du Net and others (not yet available in Spanish as of this date), in its paragraph 175, recalls that:
Regarding the justification of such interference, it should be specified that the requirement, provided for in Article 52, paragraph 1, of the Charter, that any limitation of the exercise of fundamental rights must be established by law implies that the legal basis allowing it must itself define the scope of the limitation of the exercise of the right in question (see, in this sense, the judgment of July 16, 2020, Facebook Ireland and Schrems, C-311/18, EU:C:2020:559, paragraph 175 and cited case law).
Likewise, paragraph 65 of the CJEU Judgment of the same date, October 6, 2020 (C-623/17), Privacy International against Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and others, citing, as the previous one, the Schrems 2 judgment, states:
It should be added that the requirement that any limitation of the exercise of fundamental rights must be established by law implies that the legal basis allowing interference in those rights must itself define the scope of the limitation of the exercise of the right in question (judgment of July 16, 2020, Facebook Ireland and Schrems, C-311/18, EU:C:2020:559, paragraph 175 and cited case law).
In short, paragraph 175 of the CJEU Judgment of July 16, 2020, C-311/2020, Schrems 2, states:
It should be added, on this last aspect, that the requirement that any limitation of the exercise of fundamental rights must be established by law implies that the legal basis allowing interference in those rights must itself define the scope of the limitation of the exercise of the right in question [Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraph 139 and cited case law].
Thus, it is the same law that establishes the interference in the fundamental right that must determine the conditions and guarantees, that is, the scope and limitation, that must be observed in such treatments,
And in that CJEU Judgment of July 16, 2020, Schrems 2, it is added (and reiterated subsequently in the aforementioned judgments of October 6, 2020):
176 Finally, to meet the proportionality requirement according to which exceptions to the protection of personal data and limitations of that protection must not exceed what is strictly necessary, the controversial regulation that entails interference must establish clear and precise rules that regulate the scope and application of the measure in question and impose minimum requirements,
Legal Office
so that individuals whose data has been transferred have sufficient guarantees to effectively protect their personal data against the risks of abuse. In particular, such regulations must indicate under what circumstances and according to what requirements a measure can be adopted that contemplates the processing of such data, thus ensuring that the interference is limited to what is strictly necessary. The need for such guarantees is particularly important when personal data is subjected to automated processing [see, in this regard, Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraphs 140 and 141 and cited jurisprudence].
The CJEU ruling of October 6, 2020, in case C-623/17, adds the mention of special categories of data:
68 (…) These considerations are particularly applicable when the protection of that particular category of personal data, which is sensitive data, is at stake [see, in this regard, the judgments of April 8, 2014, Digital Rights Ireland and others, C-293/12 and C-594/12, EU:C:2014:238, paragraphs 54 and 55, and of December 21, 2016, Tele2, C-203/15 and C-698/15, EU:C:2016:970, paragraph 117; Opinion 1/15 (EU-Canada PNR Agreement), of July 26, 2017, EU:C:2017:592, paragraph 141].
Based on the aforementioned norms and jurisprudential doctrine, this Agency has been indicating in its most recent reports the need for the legislator, when introducing regulations into our legal system that have special significance in the processing of personal data, to first conduct a risk analysis that may arise from them, including in the Regulatory Impact Analysis Report a systematic study of the impact that the various data processing activities provided for by law must have on the fundamental right to the protection of personal data of the interested parties. In this regard, the Report 77/2020, related to the Draft Organic Law on the Fight Against Doping in Sports, and Report 74/2020, referring to the Draft Law on Democratic Memory, have expressed this.
As a consequence of the above, this Agency considers it necessary to carry out, with the involvement of the data protection delegates from the Ministry of Justice, the CGPJ, and the FGE, a risk analysis and, where appropriate, a Data Protection Impact Assessment, which allows identifying the necessary guarantees that should be incorporated into the present legal text.
Notwithstanding the above, this AEPD considers it necessary that the regulation includes, in an independent Title given its significance, the following issues related to compliance with the regulations on personal data protection:
1) Identification of the data controllers and processors, determining the roles corresponding to the Courts and Tribunals, the Ministry of Justice, and the Autonomous Communities with competencies in the matter.
2) Regarding the legitimization of the processing and, where appropriate, the lifting of the prohibition for the processing of special categories of data, this will be included, in general, in the applicable procedural regulations, which will contain the appropriate guarantees, so that this law must foresee the additional guarantees arising from the greater risks posed by the application of information technologies. The same would apply to data communications for purposes other than the process itself, such as the case of public policy formulation, whose legitimization must come from the special laws regulating such public policies. Conversely, in the processing whose legitimization is this law (for example, in the matter of electronic records), it must identify and include all necessary guarantees.
3) Compliance with the principle of proactive responsibility and data protection by design and by default, establishing the obligation to prepare the necessary DPIAs for the development of systems and the adoption of decisions by the State Technical Committee of Electronic Judicial Administration, as well as, where appropriate, the obligation to carry out prior consultation in accordance with Article 36 of the GDPR.
4) Obligation to adopt the technical and organizational measures, as well as the security measures, that are necessary based on the risk to the rights and freedoms of the affected individuals, including, among them, the logging of accesses, anonymization, pseudonymization, and encryption. If, as a consequence of the DPIA, the measures to be adopted are more stringent than those provided for in the ENS, the measures necessary for the protection of personal data will prevail. These measures will be reviewed and updated when necessary.
5) Obligation to periodically conduct data protection audits.
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
12
Legal Office
6) Properly separate the responsibilities regarding personal data protection from those related to information security, including the DPOs of controllers and processors in the Technical Committee. Furthermore, given the significance of the functions of this Committee, it should have its own DPO to coordinate the aforementioned in a Subcommittee on personal data protection. This subcommittee should be responsible for preparing, for approval by the Committee, the data protection policies, including the identification of purposes, data or categories of data that will be processed as applicable, guarantees, etc., as well as preventive or contingency plans in case of personal data breaches.
7) Regarding automated decisions, differentiate not only based on whether they require legal interpretation but also based on the possibility of producing legal effects or significantly affecting individuals. In the latter case, if they can produce such effects, human intervention must be guaranteed, with the appropriate recourse being the relevant remedy in accordance with the applicable procedural regulations.
8) An express reference should be included stating that any further processing of information accessed in the jurisdictional, non-jurisdictional, open data, or information reuse context must comply with personal data protection regulations.
9) A reference could be included linking international data transfers to the legal bases and guarantees of the GDPR.
On the other hand, as specific guarantees to be included in the provisions, and without prejudice to those resulting from the risk analysis and the DPIA, the following can be cited:
1) In relation to processing for purposes other than those of the process itself, such as the development of public policies, include, in general, the necessary anonymization of the data, ensuring, in any case, a sufficient level of aggregation that prevents the identification of individuals.
2) Likewise, in relation to transparency and "open data," they must have been anonymized beforehand.
3) In the electronic judicial headquarters, in addition to including data protection among the principles, all information provided for in Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR and any other that allows compliance with the principle of transparency must be included, as well as the inventory of processing in accordance with Article 31.2 of the LOPDGDD. Furthermore, the corresponding information should be introduced into the various information registration systems contemplated in the draft bill.
4) The law must delineate who can have access to the electronic judicial file, without leaving such a significant decision to the Technical Committee.
5) The risks arising from massive information exchanges must be adequately reviewed and analyzed.
6) In the Single Judicial Edict Board, measures should be provided to prevent its indexing by search engines, as well as limiting access to the edictal information after the prudent period has elapsed for it to have fulfilled its purpose.
7) In terms of teleworking, include guarantees for the privacy of the worker.
Finally, regarding digital identification systems and digital signatures, they must be established by law, as regulatory authorization is not sufficient.
IV
To conclude, reference must be made to the modifications introduced by the fourteenth final provision in certain precepts of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights, due to the correction of errors in the European Data Protection Regulation published in the OJEU on March 4, 2021, and consequently the elimination of the warning from the catalog of sanctions to be imposed on controllers and processors, replacing it with the issuance of a requirement. Additionally, the reform introduces a new article that enables and regulates the conduct of investigative actions through digital systems, and increases the maximum duration of the sanctioning procedure from nine to twelve months, and from twelve to eighteen months for preliminary investigative actions. Finally, a provision is introduced regarding the notification of the admission to processing in those procedures with a high number of complaints, and the establishment of mandatory complaint models before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.
As recognized in the Preamble of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
Legal Office
Data protection has represented an evolution from the old model of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, of October 24, 1995, which was based on a series of obligations that data controllers and processors had to comply with, combined with the recognition of reactive powers of data protection authorities, towards a new model of proactive responsibility, which will in turn require a dynamic assessment of the activities carried out by the obligated subject under the regulation and the adoption of measures such as privacy by design and by default, conducting data protection impact assessments, or implementing technical and organizational security measures that are adjusted at all times to the state of the art and to the risks arising from the processing.

The new model of personal data protection has had a notable impact on the organization and traditional functions of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, as well as on the processing of its procedures, since the General Data Protection Regulation strengthens the competencies of control authorities that must have all effective functions and powers, including investigative powers, corrective and sanctioning powers, and authorization and advisory powers provided for in the Regulation itself, and has introduced mechanisms that ensure the necessary coordination and coherence among the different European control authorities.

In this regard, Title VIII of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, regulates the "Procedures in case of possible infringement of data protection regulations," taking into account that Regulation (EU) 2016/679 establishes a novel and complex system, evolving towards a "one-stop shop" model in which there is a main control authority and other interested authorities. Likewise, Title IX, which contemplates the sanctioning regime, is based on the premise that Regulation (EU) 2016/679 establishes a system of sanctions or corrective actions that allows for a wide margin of discretion.

After more than two years of the full application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, and the entry into force of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, the experience gained demonstrates the need to introduce modifications in the processing of the procedures handled by the Spanish Data Protection Agency in cases of possible infringement of data protection regulations, for the reasons set forth below.

Regarding the warning, on March 4 of the current year, a correction of errors of the GDPR was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, which includes, among others, the following:
“16) On page 69, in Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) and b): 
where it says: 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
15
Legal Office
«a) to sanction any controller or processor with a warning when the intended processing operations may infringe the provisions of this Regulation; 
b) to sanction any controller or processor with a reprimand when the processing operations have infringed the provisions of this Regulation;», 
should read: 
«a) to issue a warning to any controller or processor when the intended processing operations may infringe the provisions of this Regulation;
b) to issue a reprimand to any controller or processor when the processing operations have infringed the provisions of this Regulation;». 
Even though at first glance the correction of errors made may seem insignificant, the truth is that it has essential legal implications in the understanding and configuration of the corrective powers established in the GDPR in relation to the sanctions system set forth in Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD). 
In light of the new wording of Article 58.2.b) of the GDPR, it follows that the reprimand should not be considered a sanction and that the use of the verb “sanction” in the Spanish version of the GDPR constituted an error that has now been corrected. Indeed, in the English version, the provision states: “to issue reprimands to a controller or a processor where processing operations have infringed provisions of this Regulation,” a phrase that is now translated as “dirigir.” 
The legal conceptualization and terminology of the GDPR no longer align with the sanctions system of our LOPDGDD, creating the need for a substantial change in what constitutes “issuing a reprimand.” In this sense, based on the initial translation of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD considered the reprimand as a sanction and not as a non-sanctioning measure, deviating from its traditional configuration in our legal system after its inclusion in section 6 of Article 45 of the repealed Organic Law 15/1999 of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data by Law 2/2011, of March 4, on Sustainable Economy, as recognized by the Supreme Court Judgment of November 29, 2013, (reiterated in others such as Judgment No. 447/2016 of September 23):
 «Consequently, the "reprimand" referred to in the provision does not constitute a sanction and is exclusively aimed at ensuring that the responsible party "within the period determined by the sanctioning body, proves the adoption of the corrective measures that in each case...
Legal Office
"case may be relevant," such measures being those established in each case by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. Thus, Article 45.6 of the LOPD does not contemplate the imposition of the warning sanction, which consists of the admonition made to the responsible party for an administrative infraction, informing them of the social reproach that their infringing conduct deserves. 
Such consideration is also supported by the fact that the "warning" referred to in the regulation is not preceded by the processing of a sanctioning procedure, in which it is agreed upon, and it openly contrasts with the imposition of sanctions, as expressly indicated by the provision, both by providing for its application instead of the opening of the sanctioning procedure, and by requiring its appropriateness, among other requirements, that "the infringer has not been sanctioned or warned previously." 
In this sense, it is revealing that the non-compliance with the warning or its disregard leads to the opening of the corresponding sanctioning procedure for such non-compliance. 
In short, we are faced with a legal and express authorization to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection to replace the sanction that would correspond to the infringing conduct assessed by a mere request for the adoption of certain corrective measures, referred to as "warning," which lacks a sanctioning nature. 
Consequently, Article 45.6 of the LOPD grants the Spanish Agency for Data Protection a power that substantially differs from the sanctioning one and that it can exercise instead of this when the singular and exceptional circumstances contemplated by the provision occur. 
It should also be added that the basis for the attribution of such administrative power can only be the finding that under certain circumstances contemplated by the provision, the qualified reduction of the culpability of the accused or of the unlawfulness of the act is so extraordinary that the conduct does not merit the imposition of a sanction nor, therefore, is it subject to the social reproach that accompanies this measure […].
The correction made to Article 58.2.b) of the GDPR, included within the corrective powers of the supervisory authorities (enumerated in the cited regulatory text), leaves no doubt about the regulatory intent not to configure the warning as a sanction, so that, being this provision directly applicable, we must adapt our legal system to the correct translation of the GDPR, aligning our LOPDGDD with this "appropriate measure," issuing a warning whenever certain circumstances are present. 
In this regard, Recital 148 of the GDPR states: 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
17
Legal Office
"In order to reinforce the application of the rules of this Regulation, any infringement thereof must be punished with sanctions, including administrative fines, in addition to appropriate measures imposed by the supervisory authority under this Regulation, or in substitution thereof. In the case of a minor infringement, or if the fine that is likely to be imposed constitutes a disproportionate burden for a natural person, instead of a sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed [...]"
According to the aforementioned recitals, infringements must be punished with sanctions, either additionally or in substitution of “appropriate measures.” With the new wording of Article 58.2.b), the warning can no longer be considered a sanction, but rather, on the contrary, as an “appropriate measure,” a “corrective power” that the supervisory authority has, which lacks a punitive nature and which it may resort to instead of the sanction. Specifically, regarding warnings, the GDPR indicates that they will proceed in the case of a minor infringement, or if the fine that could be imposed constitutes a disproportionate burden for a natural person.
Regarding minor infringements, it should be noted that they should not be understood as such as classified for the purposes of prescription in the LOPDGDD, but rather that the supervisory authority, taking into account the circumstances present in each case, and according to the aggravating and mitigating factors contemplated in Article 83.2 of the GDPR, may determine the “minority” of the infringement for the purpose of punishing it with a warning.
From a practical point of view, this new conceptualization of the warning as a manifestation of non-punitive corrective power would relieve the workload of the General Sub-Directorate for Data Inspection (SGID) by not resorting in these cases to the processing of a sanctioning procedure.
In this context, we must mention the exponential growth of the SGID's workload both in quantity and in complexity of the matters assigned to it due to the powers conferred in this regard.
As for the quantity, this largely arises from the increase in the number of complaints filed by interested parties who are increasingly aware of their rights, the risks to which they are subjected by the processing of their personal data, and their violation, claiming before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.
On this particular matter, the recent Resolution of the European Parliament, dated March 25, 2021, regarding the Commission's evaluation report on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation two years later.
Legal Office
of its application (2020/2717(RSP)), highlights that “since the beginning of the application of the GDPR, the number of complaints received by the supervisory authorities has increased enormously; this demonstrates that data subjects are more aware of their rights and wish to protect their personal data in accordance with the GDPR.”

To this equation, we must add that in recent years there has been a generalization of the use of new technologies - some highly intrusive - including mass access to the internet and the use of social networks, which, combined with the massive use and exchange of data even among individuals or ubiquitous (and mobile) computing, has skyrocketed the number of complaints.

The risks are very diverse, different, and new compared to those we were accustomed to (such as identity theft, the creation of discriminatory profiles, constant surveillance - encompassing geolocation - or fraud).

After all, this new reality now present was one of the driving forces behind the new GDPR compared to Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, of October 24, 1995, regarding the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, which became insufficient to face the significant technological and social change in the processing of personal data.

The European Commission proposed the adoption of the GDPR precisely to address the challenges posed by new technologies and services.

This is finally reflected in Recital 6 of the GDPR, which states clearly that “The rapid technological evolution and globalization have posed new challenges for the protection of personal data. The magnitude of the collection and exchange of personal data has increased significantly. Technology enables both private companies and public authorities to use personal data on an unprecedented scale in carrying out their activities. Individuals are disseminating an ever-increasing volume of personal information on a global scale. Technology has transformed both the economy and social life, and must further facilitate the free movement of personal data within the Union and the transfer to third countries and international organizations, while ensuring a high level of protection of personal data.”

Moreover, the involvement of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the defense of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data in this new context of constant development of c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
19
Legal Office
The impact of technologies and changes in social customs has been extensive, as evidenced by the establishment of the Priority Channel in September 2019. We must also account for the significant increase in rights conferred to data subjects by the GDPR and the corresponding rise in functions imposed by the GDPR on the Inspection within the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in relation to those previously contained in the LOPD. 

Thus, for example, in relation to investigations initiated on our own initiative, we must mention the investigations arising from notifications of personal data security breaches, the communication of which is mandatory for data controllers under Article 33 of the GDPR. 

Another example can be found in the establishment of the single-window mechanism (Article 60 and following of the GDPR), which creates a system of cooperation and coherence among the various supervisory authorities, requiring the participation and consultation of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. A complex system, in which, at times, it is necessary to reach an agreement on a specific matter—where several supervisory authorities are involved—based on the different objections raised by one, several, or all of the supervisory authorities, to which a reasoned and detailed response must be provided; cases must also be considered where assistance to other supervisory authorities is required, which includes requests for information and control measures, requests to carry out authorizations and prior consultations, inspections, and investigations. 

Moreover, the increase in the number of cases is accompanied by greater complexity, both from a material and procedural standpoint, which requires more effort in their study, necessitating a much more detailed analysis. 

From a material perspective, on one hand, linked to the implementation of the GDPR and the LOPDGDD, which, despite three years having passed since their applicability, still demand extreme care in discerning and understanding the conflicting factual scenarios and in the correct application and interpretation of the regulations. This is especially true when considering the guidelines and directives of the EDPB and the jurisprudence from state courts, the European Union, and international courts (ECHR). 

On the other hand, as we have already indicated, we are facing an increasingly convoluted and intricate reality from which more difficult factual scenarios arise, combined with the implementation of innovative and emerging technologies (sometimes for the first time or in a widespread manner) or the continuous establishment of new types of processing with already existing technologies.
Legal Office
existing. Along with the necessary legal knowledge, an extensive technological understanding is now required. Let us simply consider the complexity imposed by treatments that employ algorithmic decision-making and artificial intelligence, Big Data, or the Internet of Things. 
To all of this, we must add the intrinsic and specific case law of personal data protection, which imposes the need for inquiry, investigation, analysis, and individualization of the specific case, without such actions being able to be replaced by general statements or resolutions. 
From a procedural standpoint, we must again refer to the practical and processing difficulties produced by the integration of specific procedures designed to address cross-border complaints through the single window mechanism into our own administrative procedures. 
However, the significant increase in functions and workload has not resulted in a corresponding increase in available material and personnel resources, a situation widely recognized in the European Parliament Resolution of March 25, 2021, on the Commission's evaluation report on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation two years after its application (2020/2717(RSP)), when it states unequivocally that “many data protection authorities are unable to cope with the number of complaints; that many of these authorities lack sufficient staff and resources, as well as a sufficient number of information technology experts.” 
The European Parliament expresses its great concern over the lack of resources of all kinds, highlighting “the importance of ensuring that the Union's supervisory authorities, as well as the EDPS, have sufficient financial, technical, and human resources to be able to respond quickly yet thoroughly to an increasing number of complex cases that require a significant amount of resources, and to coordinate and facilitate cooperation among national data protection authorities, adequately monitor the application of the GDPR, and protect fundamental rights and freedoms.” 
The certainty of what we assert is demonstrated by the numbers provided by the General Inspection Subdirectorate: 
The increase in entries compared to the same period last year, as of November 30, 2021, is 35%, considering complaints, notifications of personal data security breaches, and cross-border procedures. This growth in the number of cases must be added to the increase in their complexity; in some cases, these are files that lead to multiple... 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
21
Legal Office
administrative procedures with different participants and in others it
deals with novel issues regarding the interpretation of the regulation in which the different control authorities attempt to reach consensus solutions.
During the month of November 2021, we can verify that
558 complaints have been filed, obtaining a significant number of 13,341 complaints filed in total so far this year (up to November 30, 2021).
Comparing this figure with the data from 2010, the year in which
6,189 resolutions were issued, if this trend continues during the last
month of the year, there would be an increase of 135%.
However, in May 2010, 65 positions in the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection were occupied, while currently this number has only increased by 7 people,
which represents an increase of 10.7%, clearly insufficient.
Moreover, not all of these individuals are dedicated to inspection and
instruction tasks, as there are a total of 14 people performing
administrative and technical duties. It should also be noted that until 2018
there were 7 people from an external company who are no longer present.
Thus, in the 2018 Report of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
there is a reference to the available human resources to respond to the change in context brought about by the applicability of the GDPR since May 2018, indicating that “In December 2017,
a total of 64 officials worked in the General Subdirectorate of Inspection across the different areas. In December 2018,
that number only reached 67 people considering the hires and departures that occurred during the year.”
It is noted, regarding the number of available personnel in the
General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection, that there has not been
a growth proportional to the new functions and the increase that these have caused in daily work, but rather the opposite (a 135% increase versus a 7%).
In this way, the introduction of a specific warning procedure, more flexible and faster, with a maximum duration of six months,
will allow for a quicker response to complaints filed by citizens, while reducing the workload of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, as these cases will not require the processing of a sanctioning procedure.
Furthermore, this new procedure, lasting only six months, serves as a counterbalance to the modification also proposed regarding
the extension of the processing period for sanctioning procedures (which we will outline next) in which a greater margin is indeed necessary. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
22
Legal Office
temporary for its processing. And, therefore, a quicker response to the
claims submitted by citizens.
In conclusion, the establishment of this procedure will mean the
streamlining of the functions assigned to the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection with a more flexible and rapid procedure that effectively
addresses the claims submitted by the interested parties and helps to support
the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection in managing the additional
workload imposed by the GDPR.
On the other hand, the need to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency in the
actions of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and the proper
compliance with the functions assigned to it by Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
as well as the introduction of this new warning procedure, shows the need
to make other modifications to articulate the way of conducting non-in-person
inspections, establish a single way to initiate sanctioning procedures (whether
or not they are cross-border), and an increase in the processing time of the
sanctioning procedure and the preliminary investigation actions.
First, a new Article 53 bis is introduced, relating to the way of conducting
investigation actions through digital systems, to regulate the possibility of
conducting not only in-person investigations but also remote ones. The need
to implement this possibility when conducting an investigation, not expressly
foreseen in the initial wording of the Law, arises as a consequence of various
events, such as the difficulty of conducting in-person investigations during
the COVID-19 pandemic or the establishment of teleworking as a mode of
remote service provision. With the introduction of remote inspections, this
impediment would be addressed, not only during the indefinite time that the
pandemic lasts but also thereafter, covering any exogenous contingency that
might prevent investigations from being conducted in person. It would therefore
enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the work of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, whose operations would not be slowed down by eventualities
and circumstances beyond its control, while also promoting and contributing
to the effective establishment of electronic administration, and allowing the
Agency to join the path set by other Public Administrations to permit remote
inspections, as occurs, for example, in Article 99.9 of Law 58/2003, of
December 17, General Tax Law, recently introduced by final provision 1.1 of
Royal Decree-Law 22/2020, of June 16, which regulates the creation of the
COVID-19 Fund and establishes the rules regarding its distribution and
disbursement, or in Article 39 bis.4 of Law 15/2007, of July 3, on the
Defense of Competition, introduced by Article One of Royal Decree-Law
7/2021, of April 27, on the transposition of European Union directives in
competition matters, prevention.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
23
Legal Cabinet
of money laundering, credit institutions, telecommunications, tax measures,
prevention and remediation of environmental damage,
displacement of workers in the provision of transnational services, and
consumer protection.
In this way, taking into account the aforementioned issues related to the
increase in functions and work of the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection, 
remote inspections would significantly assist in facilitating work and improving efficiency, effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness, increasing the time available to carry out other assigned tasks. Their establishment, along with in-person inspections, would have a direct impact on the work performed by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection, significantly energizing it. Likewise, the implementation of remote inspections would enhance and contribute to the effective establishment of electronic administration, promoting accessibility, and would also favor the exercise of citizens' rights and the fulfillment of their obligations, with a significant cost savings (travel and time, among others) for both the citizen and the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.
In this context, we must also consider the establishment of teleworking as a modality for providing remote services in which "the competency content of the job can be developed, as long as the needs of the service allow it, outside the dependencies of the Administration, through the use of information and communication technologies," as provided in Article 47.bis of Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, of October 30, which approves the consolidated text of the Basic Statute of Public Employees (TREBEP).
In this regard, we must highlight the implementation of teleworking in the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, which has resulted in greater efficiency in the functions assigned by the legal framework, having been particularly relevant in its utility during the COVID-19 pandemic. Since the pilot program established in 2017, through its incorporation into the Framework for Social Responsibility, to the present, teleworking in the Spanish Agency for Data Protection has proven to be a more flexible work organization that serves the more efficient provision of public services.
The implementation of this modality for providing services must allow for the competencies of the job to also be developed remotely, including those related to inspections specific to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. This would be impossible if the effective possibility of conducting remote inspections were not foreseen, with the same guarantees as in-person inspections.

c. Jorge Juan 6
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
24
Legal Office
This modification is made without depriving the regulated parties of the necessary guarantees that ensure within the procedure "the secure transmission and reception of the documents and information exchanged, and, where applicable, to collect the necessary evidence and the results of the actions taken, ensuring their authorship, authenticity, and integrity." 
Furthermore, such a possibility is not imposed, as it requires the consent of the responsible party or the data processor for its use, as well as to set the date and time for its development. It has been considered that not all regulated parties are obliged to interact electronically with Public Administrations or have the necessary technical means to do so. In conclusion, the general principles of the public sector regarding its actions and electronic relationships have been respected. 
Secondly, the third paragraph of section two of article 64 of the LOPDGDD has been removed, which stated that the initiation of the sanctioning procedure could be initiated by the adoption of the draft agreement to commence the sanctioning procedure, which should be formally communicated to the interested party for the purpose of interrupting the infringement (article 75 of the LOPDGDD). 
This aims to ensure that the sanctioning procedure is always initiated by an initiation agreement, regardless of whether we are in a single-window procedure or not. This is because such a draft initiation agreement is subject to objections from the various control authorities, which may result in the initiation agreement differing significantly from what is established in the draft initiation agreement after an agreement with them. 
In this way, not only is the initiation of a sanctioning procedure precisely and unambiguously established, whether or not it is cross-border, but greater legal certainty for the citizen is also achieved. 
Thirdly, in the fifth paragraph of article 64.2 of the organic law, the duration of the sanctioning procedure has been increased from nine to twelve months, in order to adjust it to the increase in the number and complexity of the claims and procedures that must be carried out, with the aim of guaranteeing administrative efficiency and the adequate protection of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. 

The extension of the deadline is necessary in light of the reasons previously stated regarding the increased workload in the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection, both in quantity and complexity, particularly arising from the new functions assigned to the control authorities, the new obligations imposed on the data controllers and processors that must be supervised, and the new procedures resulting from the implementation of the single-window system in the GDPR, among others. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
25
Legal Office
issues. And it is that, in addition to the sanctioning procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data, we must add the uniqueness,
peculiarities, and additional procedures of the aforementioned international
procedures.
What might appear to be a reduction in citizens' guarantees is not the case. 
Both in the Spanish Constitution (Article 103) and in the LRJSP (Article 3), the principle of effectiveness is prioritized as one of the general principles that guide administrative action; it is linked, in a secondary manner, to other principles such as effective service to citizens, the agility of procedures, or effectiveness in achieving the established objectives. However, administrative action will not be effective in any way if the means at its disposal do not achieve the interests pursued, in the case of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data, the real defense of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data. The complexity of the work carried out requires sufficient time to investigate and correctly clarify the complaints presented and to provide due response to citizens.
We must emphasize that, in any case, this is a maximum duration period for the procedure, without it needing to be exhausted.
Furthermore, the increase in the processing time of the sanctioning procedure is compensated by the establishment of a warning procedure that has a maximum duration of six months.
Fourthly, a specific provision has been included in Article 65.5 of the organic law for the notification of the admission to processing in those cases where a high number of complaints are presented by different complainants arising from the same event and that share a substantial identity among them, and the reported facts refer to the same alleged infringer who has violated the same provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5.
 
A very significant example is that which arises from violations of personal data security. Another is when the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data has become aware through various channels of facts that infringe data protection regulations.
In such cases, when the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data is already investigating the facts concerned in the event that has occurred or has agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure, it will be indicated, in the notification to the complainant of the admission to processing of their complaint, the file number under which these facts are being processed. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
26
Legal Office
are investigating and the web address where the resolution that 
concludes the matter will be published. 
The justification for the inclusion of these aspects in the notification 
of the admission of the claim to processing is found in the provision of 
article 57.1. f) of the GDPR, which states that among the functions attributed 
to the Control Authorities, it is their responsibility to “handle the claims 
submitted by a data subject or by a body, organization, or association 
in accordance with article 80, and to investigate, as appropriate, the 
reason for the claim and inform the claimant about the course and the result 
of the investigation within a reasonable time, particularly if new investigations 
or closer coordination with another control authority are necessary.” Likewise, 
article 77.2 of the GDPR establishes that “The control authority to which the 
claim has been submitted will inform the claimant about the course and the 
result of the claim, including the possibility of accessing judicial protection 
under article 78.”
With this provision, compliance is achieved, in the same act of notification 
of the admission of the claim to processing, with the duty to inform the claimant 
about the course and result of the investigation. Therefore, procedures that 
are currently carried out separately are concentrated into a single act. This 
represents a gain in efficiency, given the limited resources, especially the 
human resources, available to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.
Fifthly, the period for preliminary investigative actions has been modified 
in article 67 of the LOPDGDD from twelve to eighteen months, for the same 
reasons previously mentioned and because, in addition, with the modifications 
introduced in the LOPDGDD and the initiation of the sanctioning or warning 
procedure with an agreement to initiate, in any case, part of the actions 
carried out within the framework of the single window will be integrated into 
the preliminary investigative actions.
Sixthly, the second paragraph of article 75 of the LOPDGDD has been 
removed in line with the elimination of the third paragraph of article 64.2 of 
the LOPDGDD.
Seventhly, section 2 of article 77 has been modified, relating to the 
measures to be adopted when the categories of controllers or processors 
referred to therein commit an infringement, to remove the reference to the 
warning sanction, as it is not considered a sanction, as previously noted, 
adding the obligation to expressly declare the infringement committed and 
maintaining the need to establish the corrective measures that should be 
adopted, from which the imposition of the administrative fine provided for in 
article 58.2.i. of the GDPR is excluded, as is currently the case. Therefore, 
this is a purely formal modification, resulting from the non-consideration of 
the warning as a sanction. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
27
Legal Office
sanction, but does not substantially modify the applicable regime for the subjects included within the scope of Article 77. 
Finally, a new additional provision is introduced for the purpose of establishing mandatory models for the submission of complaints to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. Thus, Article 66.6 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPAC), allows that “When the Administration in a specific procedure expressly establishes specific models for the submission of requests, these shall be mandatory for the interested parties.” 
Although we cannot strictly understand that the complaints that affected parties may submit to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection are administrative requests, in the terms of Article 66 of the LPAC, it is true that such provision can be applied supplementarily to the procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection (Article 110 of the LRJSP), in all that is not provided for therein (Articles 63 and following of the LOPDGDD). 
It is necessary to establish specific models for the submission of complaints to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection that are mandatory for use, since, given the specialty and complexity of the matter, it will undoubtedly facilitate and simplify the submission of complaints by the affected party. The models that are established will serve as a guide for the interested parties when submitting a complaint. 
In this regard, the legislator's mandate imposes on the control authorities the obligation to facilitate the submission of the complaints contemplated in Article 57.1.f) of the GDPR. Specifically, Article 57.2 of the same legal text determines that “each control authority shall facilitate the submission of the complaints contemplated in paragraph 1, letter f), through measures such as a complaint submission form that can also be completed by electronic means, without excluding other means of communication.” This is based on the provision contained in Recital 141 of the GDPR. 
The legislator particularly points out as a good practice to undertake and establish forms for submitting complaints, enabling a simple way to streamline the submission of complaints, providing citizens with greater facilities in their dealings with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. 
Furthermore, it will enhance administrative efficiency (Article 103.1 of the CE) when the Spanish Agency for Data Protection receives the complaint in question duly completed, avoiding subsequent procedures that delay the process and hinder timely resolution (in attention to c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
28
Legal Office
very high volume of matters processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection).
All this without prejudice to the fact that, as stated in Article 66.4 of the LPAC, “Applicants may attach any elements they deem appropriate to specify or complete the data of the model, which must be accepted and taken into account by the body to which they are addressed.”
Furthermore, the establishment of mandatory models for the submission of complaints to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will alleviate the workload of the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection that we have previously referred to. They will serve the purpose of obtaining a prior and automated classification of the complaints submitted, saving administrative costs.
Regarding the electronic submission of the complaint or the exercise of rights, this will be carried out at the headquarters of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection; through the electronically enabled procedure, affected individuals will be guided, facilitating their submission through the standardized form by indicating the provision of the necessary data and documentation, simplifying the entire process.
On the other hand, it is necessary to regulate the substitution of the person holding the Presidency of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in cases of absence, vacancy, or illness, as well as in cases of abstention or recusal, concerning their functions related to the procedures regulated by Title VIII of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, since the Council of State, in its opinion 683/2020, regarding the draft Royal Decree approving the Statute of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, considers that, in its current wording, the exercise of those functions is reserved by law to the Presidency and therefore cannot be delegated or substituted in its exercise. Thus, if it is not regulated in the organic law, it would negatively affect the exercise of the Agency's competencies and its independence, since in the event that such circumstances arise, it would prevent its action in cases of possible violations of data protection regulations. In this regard, it should be noted that the new procedure for the designation of the person holding the Presidency requires, in order to guarantee their independence, the completion of complex procedures and the obtaining of the corresponding reinforced majorities in the Congress of Deputies, which may excessively delay their appointment, as evidenced by the current situation, in which the mandate of the Director of the Agency expired in July 2019, without the procedures for the appointment of the person holding the Presidency having been initiated to date.
All the proposed modifications affect provisions of Title VII that do not have the character of organic, according to the first additional provision of Organic Law 3/2018, so their modification can be carried out by ordinary law. Likewise, the new Article 53 bis and the twenty-third additional provision have the character of ordinary law.