
"How to harmonize business with the General Regulation on Data Protection" - online training for HOK members, June 29, 2021
The Agency for Personal Data Protection, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Trades and Crafts, is organizing a free online workshop entitled "How to harmonize business with the General Regulation on Data Protection". The workshop will be held on Tuesday, June 29, 2021 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. We invite you to apply for free online participation at the link: https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/gdpr-edukacija-hok. After registering via the online form, you will receive a link and instructions for participating in the workshop.
The General Data Protection Regulation (best known by the acronym GDPR) is a legal act that must be complied with by all those who collect and process personal data of European Union citizens. You may feel that you are not processing personal data, but the storage of personal data of clients / employees in a file on a computer, for example, is considered the processing of personal data. During the workshop, GDPR experts from the Personal Data Protection Agency will explain to craftsmen their obligations and the key steps that need to be taken to comply with the GDPR. In the second part of the workshop, craftsmen will have the opportunity to ask questions and resolve their doubts related to the harmonization of business with legal regulations on personal data protection.
This workshop is one of the activities of the Agency for Personal Data Protection within the ARC project (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs), co-financed by the EU program "Rights, Equality and Citizenship", and the project is implemented to support micro, small and medium enterprises and craftsmen when harmonizing business processes with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. Within this project, AZOP also conducts research among entrepreneurs and craftsmen on their experiences in compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation, all with the aim of gaining better insight into the needs of craftsmen and entrepreneurs and adapting educational materials and advisory activities to their specific needs. We invite all craftsmen to fill out an anonymous survey at https://vub.fra1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_etyCPkI1C1dtfZr.
You can find out more about the project at https://arc-rec-project.eu/naslovna/
If you already have questions that you would like answered in the workshop, please post them in the online registration form available at https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/gdpr-edukacija-hok.
Upon completion of the workshop, you will receive a Certificate of Completion issued by the Personal Data Protection Agency as the national supervisory authority responsible for monitoring the implementation of the GDPR in the Republic of Croatia.
Also, for the purposes of evaluating the quality of the online workshop, please fill in the questionnaire on satisfaction with the workshop held at https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/evaluacijski-upitnik-hok.
We would like to encourage craftsmen and point out that compliance with the General Regulation is not an insurmountable obstacle or an administrative burden that necessarily requires great effort and financial expenditure. The first and most important step, and it costs nothing, in complying with the GDPR is to inform about your obligations arising from the legislation on personal data protection: that is why we invite all craftsmen to a free GDPR online workshop.
PROGRAM
GDPR online workshop for members of the Croatian Chamber of Trades and Crafts
"How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation?", June 29, 2021.
10.00 - 11.10 Data Protection Regulation - GDPR - key terms: controller and executor of processing, legal basis for personal data processing, principles of lawful processing, internal acts for harmonization with the General Data Protection Regulation, management of processing activities, privacy policy
11.10 - 11.20 BREAK
11.20 - 12.00 Technical and organizational measures for personal data protection, reporting on personal data breaches, rights of respondents, data protection officer
12.00 - 13.00 QUESTIONS of the participants
