1/11

 File No.: EXP202104493

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 15, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against BANCO BILBAO
VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement
which is transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202104493

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant) on 09/30/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. with NIF A48265169 (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:
claimant states that the Department of Heirs of the claimed party sent him
a certificate of movements of a bank account, in which it was indicated that for
request clarification regarding the aforementioned movements, he should contact the
office located at ***ADDRESS.1; that on 06/05/2021, requests the claimed entity
that they provide you with the contact information of said office, referring you to a telephone number of
telephone service in which they indicate that they cannot provide the required information
by said means, urging him again to request it (via e-mail) to the department of
customer service, which, on 07/12/2021, requires you to provide a copy of
your ID to be able to process your query. On 08/25/2021, the claimant puts the facts
to the knowledge of the Data Protection Delegate, since he considers that it is
disproportionate the requirement of a copy of your DNI to know the data of
contact of a bank branch, as well as not indicating the treatment that is going to be
make of said data, receiving a response on 09/15/2021, indicating that they cannot
rule on such a general question, having asked the
department that required the contribution of your DNI what was the purpose and, on the other
side, indicate that they have forwarded your request to Customer Service so that
provide you with the required information.

Provides exchange of e-mails with the different departments.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 11/15/2021 said claim was transferred to the party
claimed in accordance with the provisions of the LPACAP, so that it proceeded to its
analysis and report to this Agency within a month of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.
The respondent did not respond to the request made.

THIRD: On 12/30/2021 the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data agreed to admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing.

FOURTH: On 04/22/2022, the respondent responded untimely to the request
of information of 11/17/2021 stating that on 03/24/2022 the Customer Service
to the Client (hereinafter, “SAC”) communicated in writing to the claimant the decision
agreed. This communication was sent to the email address that appears
in the transfer of claim that this Agency has sent us, that is,
***EMAIL.1.

Indicates that in compliance with Order ECO/734/2004, which regulates the departments
Customer Service and the Customer Ombudsman of financial institutions, the
The Board of Directors of the BBVA Group approved on 07/23/2004 the
Regulation for the Defense of the Client in Spain of the BBVA Group, being
last modified on 02/10/2009.

This regulation in its chapter 2, article 12, establishes the form, place and term of
filing of complaints and claims and specifically requires the identification and signature of
the holders, and where appropriate, the person who represents them, duly accredited.

In relation to the request for an identification document, related to the
treatment of your data by the claimed party, and in order to be able to attend
the request correctly, it is due to the obligatory fulfillment of responsibility
proactive established in article 5.2 of Regulation (EU) 679/2016 of the Parliament
and the General Council for Data Protection.

Regarding the request for the contact details of office 6252 located at
*** ADDRESS.1, the respondent states that it is a building where
find a branch of the Bank that does not belong to the commercial branch network
of BBVA, therefore not being able to attend to your request for information.

Previously on 07/14/2021 and according to the mail that is accompanied with the letter of
claim, the Department of Attention to Heirs tells you that the contact channel
it is through the Mailbox.

Likewise, in a letter dated 04/25/2022, it indicates that it considers it necessary to complement the
account of the above events and provide additional documentation that has been obtained
After analyzing what happened.

Attached is a communication to which the claimant refers, made from the
Department of Attention to Heirs, and which is attached to this writing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

 

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that:

 "The
procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed
by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, insofar as they are not
contradict, in the alternative, by the general rules on the
administrative procedures."

The facts denounced are specified in the requirement of the contribution of
copy of the DNI to obtain contact details of the bank office in order to
process a query regarding account movements, considering that such a measure
it is disproportionate.

II

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
Instead of the measures mentioned in this section, according to the
circumstances of each particular case;
(…)”

Article 5, Principles relating to processing, of the GDPR states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes
for which they are processed ("data minimization");
(…)”

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that
BBVA violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, by requiring the

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

claimant, in order to meet your request copy of the national document of
identity.

Article 5 of the RGPD refers to the general principles for the treatment
of data. Section c) refers to the principle of data minimization,
indicating that the data must be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary
in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”.

If we examine the definition we can deduce that only the
personal data to be processed, that is, those that are strictly
necessary for treatment; that can only be picked up when they are going to be
treated and that can only be used for the purpose for which it was collected, but
not for any other purpose, considering it excessive to require the claimant a copy of the
DNI for the sole purpose of being able to obtain contact information from a bank branch.

Also Recital 39 states that: "...Personal data must be
adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are
treaties”.

IV

The infraction that is attributed to the claimed one is typified in the
article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, which considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, "with administrative fines of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in its article 72, it considers for prescription purposes, which are: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed,
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which
point out:

v

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

data.

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose in the present case for the infringement typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD of
which the defendant is held responsible, in an initial assessment, are estimated are estimated
concurrent the following factors:

As aggravating circumstances:

- The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question; the
facts revealed affect a basic principle regarding the treatment of
personal data, such as data minimization, which the standard
sanctions with the greatest severity; On the other hand, the management and purpose of the
treatment carried out (article 83.2, a) of the RGPD).

- The activity of the allegedly infringing entity is linked to the
data processing of both customers and third parties. In the activity of the entity
claimed, it is essential to process the personal data of your
customers so, given the volume of business of the same, the importance of the
conduct object of this claim is undeniable (article 76.2.b) of the
LOPDGDD in relation to article 83.2.k).

- The intentionality or negligence in the infringement since the defendant was
fully aware of the procedure implemented. Also connected with the degree
of diligence that the person in charge of the treatment is obliged to deploy in the
compliance with the obligations imposed by the data protection regulations
the SAN of 10/17/2007 can be cited. Although it was issued before the validity of the
RGPD its pronouncement is perfectly extrapolated to the assumption that we analyze.
The sentence, after alluding to the fact that the entities in which the development of its
activity entails continuous processing of customer data and third parties must
observe an adequate level of diligence, specified that “(...). the Supreme Court

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

comes understanding that there is recklessness whenever a legal duty is neglected
care, that is, when the offender does not behave with due diligence. Y
In assessing the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined,
when the activity of the appellant is of constant and abundant data handling of
personal character must insist on rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the
legal precautions in this regard” (article 83.2, b) of the RGPD).

As extenuating circumstances:

- Only one person has been affected (article 83.2.a) of the RGPD).

SAW

The corrective powers that the RGPD attributes to the AEPD as the authority of
control are listed in article 58.2, sections a) to j). Among others, he mentions
section i), impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD; in the
section d), order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations
of treatment comply with the provisions of the RGPD, where appropriate, of a
certain way and within a specified period and in section g), order the
deletion of personal data in accordance with articles 16, 17 and 18.

Article 83.5. of the RGPD establishes a sanction of an administrative fine (article
58.2.i) for the behaviors that are typified in it, without prejudice to the fact that, as provided in the
article 83.2. of the RGPD, administrative fines may be imposed together with
other corrective measures provided for in article 58.2 of the RGPD.

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose the person in charge the
adoption of appropriate measures to adjust its actions to the aforementioned regulations
in this act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD,
according to which each control authority may "order the person in charge or in charge
of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the

responsible so that within the period determined:

- Prove that you have proceeded not to request a photocopy of the DNI from clients
who request contact details of an office to request clarification on
bank movements, as if it were the procedure for complaints and
claims, as it is excessive data.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A. with NIF A48265169, for the alleged violation of 5.1.c),
typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT R.R.R. and Secretary to S.S.S., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
complaint filed by the complainant and her documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the Inspection Services during the investigation phase
prior, all documents that make up the file.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPACAP), and art. 127 letter b) of the RLOPD, the penalty that may apply for
each of the offenses described would be 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros), without
prejudice to what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A. with NIF A48265169, granting a hearing period of ten
working days to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient. In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document

Likewise, in accordance with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of the LPACAP,
informs that, if it does not make allegations within the term of this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal.

You are also informed that, in accordance with the provisions of article
85.1 LPACAP, may acknowledge its responsibility within the term granted for the
formulation of allegations to this initial agreement which will entail a
reduction of 20% of the total sanction to be imposed in the present
procedure, equivalent in this case to 14,000 euros. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 56,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the total proposed sanction,
in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to 14,000
euros. With the application of this reduction, the total sanction would be established in
56,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the total sanction would be established at 42,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned

will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above (56,000 euros or 42,000 euros), in accordance with the
provided for in article 85.2 referred to, we indicate that you must make it effective by
your deposit in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

>>

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

SECOND: On August 2, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 42,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202104493, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

