THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

PRESS RELEASE

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink
Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

September 24, 2021

 New: The LfDI-BW app is here!

Always stay up to date: with the LfDI-BW app

users receive the latest news directly,

Offers from the education center and arrive quickly

the

practice aids

and

Job offers

of

state representative. And citizens can also use via

Submit app online complaints to the LfDI.

Germany's first data protection app

Regulatory Authority is available for download from the Apple App Store

ready. Smartphone users can access the latest directly from the app

Get news, mastodon posts from the state commissioner

follow, download his podcast “Data Freedom!” and

listen offline. You can also use the app to get to the

job offers and the program of the training center,

you can get handouts, sample explanations, brochures

and other useful information about the

Access privacy and freedom of information. About the

Search for "lfdi bw" in the App Store if you are interested

Download the app for free.

- 2 -

The state representative Stefan Brink: “Digitization and

Data protection belongs and works together. we

support digital communication and now also offer

the content of our work via an app.”

 

The app currently works on Apple smartphone devices

Operating system version 13.5. It is planned the app

to update regularly. An Android version of the app is

currently in development and should also be available by the end of the year

to be published. The content of the app is also available on the

Homepage of the state representative at https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/

 

 

 

Further information

There is an animated clip from the series for the LfDI app here

"Data protection stable": https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/mediathek/

