 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 2/2020 on the Belgium data protection supervisory 
authority  draft  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of 
conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

Adopted on 28 January 2020 

 

 

Adopted 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary of the facts ....................................................................................................................... 4 

ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the BE accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies ..... 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS .......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ................................................................................................................ 6 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST .................................................................................................... 8 

EXPERTISE ......................................................................................................................... 8 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................... 9 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING........................................................................... 9 

COMMUNICATING WITH THE BE SA .............................................................................. 10 

CODE REVIEW MECHANISMS ......................................................................................... 10 

LEGAL STATUS ................................................................................................................ 10 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................................................................... 11 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................. 12 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter  “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  to  provide  written  guidance  explaining  the 
accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting them to adopt these  requirements in line with 
this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term ‘accreditation’. However, article 
41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. There 
are a number of requirements, which  should  be met in order to  satisfy the competent supervisory 
authority to accredit a monitoring body. Code owners are required to explain and demonstrate how 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

 

Adopted 

 

3 

their  proposed  monitoring  body  meets  the  requirements  set  out  in  article  41  (2)  to  obtain 
accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The Belgium Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “BE SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing 
the accreditation requirements for a code of conduct  monitoring body to the Board,  requesting its 
opinion  pursuant  to  article  64  (1)(c),  for  a  consistent  approach  at  Union  level.  The  decision  on  the 
completeness of the file was taken on 25th October 2019.  

 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure,2 due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41(2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

 

Adopted 

 

 

4 

4. 

5. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1)(p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to ‘encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises.’  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

BE SA to take further action.  

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the BE SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation.  The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the BE accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all  codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

11. 

The Board notes that the draft accreditation requirements do not follow the structure set out in section 
12 of the Guidelines. In order to facilitate the assessment and standardise the requirements, the Board 
recommends the BE SA to follow the structure of the Guidelines in the draft decision.  

The Board notes that paragraph 3 of the introduction states that the monitoring body has to fulfil the 
accreditation requirements set out in the BE SA’s decision, in addition to the requirements of the GDPR 
and section 12 of the Guidelines. Whereas the reference to the Guidelines is welcomed, the Board 
notes that the BE SA’s requirements are not an addition to the ones established in the GDPR, but rather 

Adopted 

 

5 

12. 

13. 

14. 

a development thereof. The Board encourages the BE SA to amend the wording, in order to make clear 
that the requirements in the decision are not in addition to those in the GDPR, but based on those. 

The Board observes the BE SA’s draft accreditation requirements refer several times to “the number 
of code members”. In this regard,  the second paragraph of requirement 3.2 of the BE SA accreditation 
requirements states that the amount and type of human resources required depend on “....the number 
of  code  members”.  It  is  unclear  how  the  assessment  of  the  BE  SA  could  be  based  on  this  criteria, 
considering that code member numbers might not be known when the monitoring body applies for 
accreditation and that may change considerably after the accreditation has been granted. Moreover, 
according to the Guidelines, resources and staffing of the monitoring body should be proportionate to 
the expected number and size of code members, amongst other elements (paragraph 73, page 24 of 
the Guidelines). The Board notes the same reference to ‘number of code members’ in requirements 
5.2 and 6.2.Therefore the Board recommends the BE SA to include  appropriate references to “the 
expected number and size of code of code members”, to align the text with the Guidelines and allow 
for more flexibility.  

Finally, the Board notes that there is no reference to the duration of the accreditation or accreditation 
withdrawal  procedures.  Whilst  the  Board  accepts  that  these  areas  fall  into  the  area  of  guidance 
supporting  the  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board  considers  them  important  areas  in  terms  of 
ensuring that the whole accreditation process is transparent. Therefore, the Board encourages the BE 
SA  to  clarify  accreditation  duration  and  withdrawal  procedures  in  supporting  guidance  for  the 
accreditation requirements. 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

The Board is of the opinion that independence for a monitoring body should be understood as a series 
of  formal  rules  and  procedures  for  the  appointment,  terms  of  reference  and  operation  of  the 
monitoring  body.  These  rules  and  procedures  will  allow  the  monitoring  body  to  perform  the 
monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without being directly or 
indirectly influenced, nor subject to any form of pressure that might affect its decisions. Therefore, the 
monitoring body must demonstrate impartiality and independence in relation to four main areas: legal 
and  decision  making  procedures,  financial  resources,  organisational  resources  and  structure  and 
accountability. The examples provided in the BE SA’s accreditation requirements do not cover entirely 
the  four  areas  outlined.  The  Board  recommends  the  BE  SA  to  further  develop  the  requirements 
concerning  impartiality  and  independence  of  the  monitoring  body,  in  line  with  the  four  areas. 
Furthermore, the Board encourages the BE SA to include practical examples that provide a clearer view 
on how the impartiality and independence can be demonstrated in the four areas.  

15. 

The  Board  observes  that  the  example  given  in  requirement  1.1,  third  paragraph,  last  indent 
(“information on the contractual relationship between the monitoring body and the code owner”) is 
only applicable to external monitoring bodies. Where the monitoring body is part of the code owner 
organisation,  particular  focus  must  be  made  on  their  ability  to  act  independently.  The  Board 
encourages the BE SA to tailor the examples taking into account that monitoring bodies can be external 
or internal monitoring bodies.  

16.  Moreover, the Board considers that the last paragraph of requirement 1.1 could be clarified to explain 
how independence from the sector to which the code applies will be assessed, considering that such 
“sector” might be an indistinct entity. The Board encourages the BE SA to clarify the drafting, providing 

Adopted 

 

6 

for a better understanding of the concept and of the kind of evidence that the monitoring bodies can 
provide to comply with the requirement. 

17.  With regard to the accountability of the monitoring body, the Board notes that the monitoring body 
should be able to demonstrate “accountability” for its decisions and actions in order to be considered 
to be independent. The Board considers that the accountability requirements in section 9 of the BE 
SA’s accreditation requirements do not fully cover all the elements that should be taken into account. 
The  BE  SA  should  clarify  what  kind  of  evidence  is  expected  from  the  monitoring  body,  in  order  to 
demonstrate its accountability. This could be accomplished through such things as setting out the roles 
and decision-making framework and its reporting procedures, and by setting up policies to increase 
awareness among the staff about the governance structures and the procedures in place. Thus, the 
Board recommends the BE SA to strengthen the requirements for accountability, to allow for a better 
understanding of its content in relation to the independence of the monitoring body, and offer more 
examples of the kind of evidence that the monitoring bodies can provide 

18.  Requirement  3.1  (section  3  “adequate  human  resources”)  of  the  BE  SA  accreditation  requirements 
establishes that the monitoring body shall demonstrate that it is “able to free choose qualified staff in 
order to fulfil its tasks”. The Board notes that the monitoring body can also have staff that has been 
chosen by other body independent of the code, as stated in the Guidelines (paragraph 68, page 23). 
The Board recommends the BE SA to align the wording with the Guidelines, by adding the possibility 
that  the  staff  is  chosen  by  other  body  independent  of  the  code.  Furthermore,  the  Board  is  of  the 
opinion that, from a practical point of view, some examples might also be helpful. An example of staff 
provided by a body independent  of the code would be monitoring body personnel that have been 
recruited  by  an  independent  external  company,  which  provides  recruitment  and  human  resources 
services. Therefore, the Board encourages the BE SA to add an example in line with the one provided 
in this paragraph.  

19.  Moreover, the Board notes that  requirement 3.1 of the BE SA accreditation requirements does not 
explain how the monitoring body can demonstrate that it is able to freely choose qualified staff. In 
order to facilitate the practical implementation of the requirements, the Board considers that some 
examples would be helpful. Hence, the Board encourages the BE SA to clarify how the monitoring body 
can demonstrate its ability to freely choose qualified staff.  

20.  With  regard  to  the  obligation  of  the  monitoring  body  to  demonstrate  that  it  is  composed  of  an 
adequate  number  of  staff  (requirement  3.2  of  the  BE  SA  accreditation  requirements),  the  Board 
considers that, from a practical point of view, some examples would be helpful. Therefore, the Board 
encourages the BE SA to clarify how the monitoring body can demonstrate that it is composed of an 
adequate number of staff.  

21. 

The Board observes that requirement 4.3 of the BE SA accreditation requirements (section “financial 
arrangements”) requires that the monitoring body shall have “adequate arrangements in place (...) to 
cover potential financial penalties”. The Board is of the opinion that this obligation could prevent small 
or medium monitoring bodies from getting accredited. Therefore, the Board recommends the BE SA 
to  either  delete  this  requirement  or  to  soften  the  wording  and  refer  to  the  monitoring  body’s 
responsibilities in general.  

Adopted 

 

7 

22. 

23. 

24. 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

The Board observes that requirement 1.2 of the BE SA accreditation requirements only addresses the 
situations in which there is a conflict of interest related to the personnel of the monitoring body. The 
accreditation  requirements  should  also  reflect  other  scenarios  where  there  might  be  conflicts  of 
interest of the monitoring body itself, for example, due do its activities, relationships, organisation or 
procedures. Thus, the Board recommends the BE SA to amend the draft accreditation requirements to 
reflect that the conflict of interests shall be avoided also in relation to the monitoring body itself, and 
not only with regard to its staff.    

Furthermore, the Board observes that the BE SA accreditation requirements do not explicitly include 
the obligation of the monitoring body to refrain from any action that is incompatible with its tasks and 
duties and to not seek nor take instructions from any person, organisation or association (paragraph 
68, page 23 of the Guidelines). Therefore, the Board recommends the BE SA to align the text with the 
Guidelines and include the above-mentioned obligations.  

  EXPERTISE 

The Board notes that requirement 5.1 of the BE SA’s expertise requirements include: knowledge and 
experience  on  data  protection  legislation,  knowledge  and  experience  in  the  sector  or  processing 
activity for which it will act as monitoring body  as well as knowledge and experience in auditing to 
establish the monitoring body capacity to monitor compliance of the code members with the code of 
conduct.  

25.  Whilst the BE SA has included all the elements from the Guidelines in its requirements, the Board is of 
the opinion that the level of the knowledge and expertise in data protection issues should be aligned 
with the Guidelines. Therefore, the Board encourages the BE SA to align the text with the Guidelines, 
and require an in-depth understanding of data protection legislation.  

26. 

The Board considers that the accreditation requirements need to be transparent. They also need to 
provide for monitoring bodies seeking accreditation in relation to codes that cover micro, small and 
medium-sized enterprises’ processing activities (article 40 (1) GDPR). 

27.  As required by the Guidelines, every code must fulfil the monitoring mechanism criteria (in section 6.4 
of  the  Guidelines),  by  demonstrating  ‘why  their  proposals  for  monitoring  are  appropriate  and 
operationally  feasible’  (paragraph  41,  page  17  of  the  Guidelines).  In  this  context,  all  codes  with 
monitoring  bodies  will  need  to  explain  the  necessary  expertise  level  for  their  monitoring  bodies  in 
order  to  deliver  the  code’s  monitoring  activities  effectively.  To  that  end,  in  order  to  evaluate  the 
expertise  level  required  by  the  monitoring  body,  it  should,  in  general,  be  taken  into  account  such 
factors  as:  the  size  of  the  sector  concerned,  the  different  interests  involved  and  the  risks  of  the 
processing  activities  addressed  by  the  code.  This  would  also  be  important  if  there  are  several 
monitoring bodies, as the code will help ensure a uniform application of the expertise requirements 
for all monitoring bodies covering the same code. 

28. 

The expertise of each monitoring body should be assessed in line with the particular code. Therefore, 
the Board encourages the BE SA to take into account the additional expertise requirements that can 
be defined by the code and ensure that the expertise of each monitoring body is assessed in line with 
the particular code. Whereby the SA will verify if the monitoring body possess adequate competencies 
for the specific duties and responsibilities to undertake the effective monitoring of the code. The Board 

Adopted 

 

8 

also  encourages  the  BE  SA  to  redraft  the  requirement  5.2  following  the  same  wording  as  other 
requirements, - I.e. start the requirement with ‘the monitoring body shall demonstrate that its…’ 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

29.  Requirement 6.2 of the BE SA’s accreditation requirements establishes that the criteria to carry out 
the audit plans include (underlined added) “the received number of complaints”. Whereas the number 
of complaints could be a relevant criterion, the Board considers that other elements, such as the focus 
of  the  complaints,  may  have  a  greater  significance.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  BE  SA  to 
delete the reference to the “number” of complaints, and keep it more general, such as “the received 
complaints”.  

30. 

31. 

The  Board  notes  that  requirement  6.3  of  the  BE  SA  accreditation  requirements  refers  to  a  code  of 
conduct as a tool for international transfers. As part of the work program for 2019-2020, the Board is 
currently working on Guidelines on Codes of Conduct as a tool for transfers. Since the Guidelines have 
not  been  adopted  yet,  the  Board  considers  that  the  reference  in  requirement  6.3  of  the  BE  SA 
accreditation requirements might create confusion and may need to be amended once the Guidelines 
are adopted. Therefore, the Board recommends the BE SA to delete requirement 6.3.  

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

The  Board  observes  that  the  complaints  procedure  in  requirement  7.1  is  addressed  only  to  data 
subjects, preventing other actors, such as organisations or associations representing data subjects or 
active in the field of the protection of personal data, to file a complaint with the monitoring body. The 
Board encourages the BE SA to  amend the requirement in order to include a more comprehensive 
wording that does not limit the possibility to file a complaint only to data subjects.   

32.  Moreover, the Board notices that the BE SA accreditation requirements do not make any reference to 
the corrective measures that must be determined in the code of conduct, as per Article 40(4) GDPR. 
Therefore, the Board recommends the BE SA to add a reference to the list of sanctions set out in the 
code of conduct in cases of infringements of the code by a controller or processor adhering to it. 

33. 

The Board notes that requirement 7.3 of the BE SA accreditation requirements contains the duty of 
the monitoring body to make the register of the complaints received and their outcome available to 
the SA on request. Whereas the Board acknowledges the intention of the BE SA to comply with the 
transparency principle regarding the complaints handling procedure, the Board considers that the BE 
SA  accreditation  requirements  should  contain  the  obligation  of  the  monitoring  body  to  make  the 
decisions, or general information thereof, publicly available, as provided in the Guidelines (paragraph 
74,  page  24).  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  BE  SA  to  align  the  text  of  the  accreditation 
requirements  with  the  Guidelines,  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  decisions,  or  general  information 
thereof, are publicly available.   

34. 

Furthermore,  where  the  BE  SA  decides  to  ensure  the  transparency  of  the  complaints  handling 
procedure by requiring that the monitoring body publishes summary information about the decisions 
taken in this context, the Board recommends that the BE SA specifies the kind of information that the 
monitoring body is obliged to publish. For example, the monitoring body could publish, on a regular 
basis, statistical data with the result of the monitoring activities, such as the number of complaints 
received, the type of infringements and the corrective measures issued. 

Adopted 

 

9 

  COMMUNICATING WITH THE BE SA 

35.  With regard to the communication with the BE SA, requirement 8.1 establishes that the monitoring 
body  will  communicate  to  the  BE  SA  “at  periodic  intervals”,  any  action  taken  in  cases  of  code 
infringements and the reasons for such actions. , alongside annual reporting, providing an overview of 
the monitoring body’s activities and decisions.  Whilst the Board welcomes the explicit reference to 
the  periodic  communication  with  the  SA  and  the  criteria  to  determine  its  frequency,  the  Board 
considers that there should be an appropriate level of flexibility to help guide monitoring bodies as to 
when  to  report,  rather  than  setting  the  criteria  too  rigidly;  the  criteria  should  take  into  account 
changing circumstances and different factors that are listed. The Board encourages the BE SA to redraft 
8.1 to make it clear that the periodic reporting is flexible. 

36.  According to requirement 8.1, the frequency of the communication will depend on the “the risks for 
data subjects, the sensitivity and complexity of data processing that takes places within the context of 
the code of conduct, the size of the sector concerned and the number of code members”. In addition, 
the Board notes that the BE SA review of such reports would normally focus on the more serious or 
common  infringements and the measures taken. The Board encourages the BE SA to make reference 
to the seriousness and frequency of infringements and to the measures taken, as part of the criteria 
to determine the frequency of communication with the SA.Furthermore, the Board encourages the BE 
SA to add a reference to the communication requirements as set by the Code of Conduct itself.   

37. 

38. 

39. 

Furthermore, significant changes in the number of code members are not included in requirement 8.2 
of the BE SA accreditation requirements, as a substantial change that shall be communicated to the SA 
without undue delay.   Therefore, the Board recommends the BE SA to include  relevant changes to  
the number of code members in the list of significant changes in requirement 8.2.  

Turning to requirement 8.3, the Board supports the publicly available information, but  considers that 
the wording for the last two bullets could be made clearer. To this end, the Board recommends the BE 
SA to add to the last two bullets a suitable reference to the rules and procedures as set out in the code 
itself. 

  CODE REVIEW MECHANISMS 

The  accreditation  requirements  contain  the  obligation  of  the  monitoring  body  to  contribute 
appropriately  to  the  review  of  the  code  of  conduct  (requirement  11.2).  The  Board  encourages 
accreditation  requirements  which  require  a  monitoring  body  to  develop  mechanisms  that  enable 
feedback to the code owners and to any other entity referred to in the code of conduct. Some options 
would be to use the results of the audit process, the handling of complaints or actions taken in code 
infringement cases. Therefore, the Board encourages the BE SA to amend the draft, adding that the 
monitoring body  must have mechanisms that enable feedback to the code owner and to any other 
entity referred to in the code of conduct.  

  LEGAL STATUS 

40.  According  to  requirement  2.4  of  the  BE  SA  accreditation  requirements,  the  sustainability  and 
continuity  of  the  monitoring  activities  shall  be  demonstrated  in  relation  to  the  “mechanisms  to 
overcome the withdrawal of one or several code members”. The Board considers that it is unclear how 
the withdrawal of one or several code members would affect the performance of the monitoring body. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the BE SA to delete the above-mentioned reference.  

Adopted 

 

10 

41. 

42. 

Furthermore, with regard to the reference to “sufficient financial resources” in requirement 2.4 of the 
BE SA accreditation requirements, the Board considers that the existence of sufficient financial and 
other resources should be accompanied with the necessary procedures to ensure the functioning of 
the code of conduct over time. Thereby, the Board encourages that the BE SA amend the explanatory 
note, adding the above-mentioned reference to “procedures”.  

Finally,  regarding  subcontractors,  requirement  10.2  of  the  BE  SA  accreditation  requirements  states 
that “the monitoring body shall identify all of its subcontractors when it applies for accreditation.” The 
Board considers that the list of subcontractors is not as relevant as the actual tasks and role that they 
will  carry  out.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  BE  SA  to  amend  the  wording,  stating  that  the 
monitoring body will specify the tasks and roles that the subcontractors will carry out.  

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

43. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Belgian Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

44.  As general remarks, the Board recommends that the BE SA 

1.  follows the structure set out in section 12 of the Guidelines.  

2. 

includes  appropriate references to “the expected number and size of code of code members” 
in  requirements  3.2,  5.2  and  6.2,  to  align  the  text  with  the  Guidelines  and  allow  for  more 
flexibility. 

45.  Regarding ‘independence’ the Board recommends that the BE SA:  

1.  further  develops  the  requirements  concerning  impartiality  and  independence  of  the 

monitoring body, in line with the four areas. 

2.  strengthens  the  requirements  for  accountability,  to  allow  for  a  better  understanding  of  its 
content in relation to the independence of the monitoring body, and offer more examples of 
the kind of evidence that the monitoring bodies can provide. 

3.  aligns the wording in requirement 3.1 to the Guidelines, by adding that the monitoring body 

can also have staff that has been chosen by other body independent of the code. 

4.  either  deletes  requirement  4.3  or  softens  the  wording and  refers  to  the  monitoring  body’s 
responsibilities  in  general  or  clarifies  the  monitoring  body’s  responsibilities  in  reference  to 
article 83.4 c) if the GDPR. 

46.  Regarding ‘conflict of interest’ the Board recommends that the BE SA: 

1.  amends the draft accreditation requirements to reflect that the conflict of interests shall be 

avoided also in relation to the monitoring body itself, and not only with regard to its personnel.    

2.  aligns the text with the Guidelines and includes the obligation of the monitoring body to refrain 
from  any  action  that  is  incompatible  with  its  tasks  and  duties  and  to  not  seek  nor  take 
instructions from any person, organisation or association 

47.  Regarding ‘established procedures and structures’ the Board recommends that the BE SA: 

Adopted 

 

11 

1.  deletes requirement 6.3. 

48.  Regarding ‘transparent complaint handling’ the Board recommends that the BE SA: 

1.  adds a reference to the list of sanctions set out in the code of conduct in cases of infringements 

of the code by a controller or processor adhering to it 

2.  aligns the text of the accreditation requirements with the Guidelines, in order to ensure that 

the decisions, or general information thereof, are publicly available.   

3.  specifies the kind of information the monitoring body is obliged to publish in case the BE SA 
decides to ensure the transparency of the complaints handling procedure by requiring that the 
monitoring body publishes summary information about the decisions taken in this context. 

49.  Regarding ‘communication with the BE SA’ the Board recommends that the BE SA: 

1. 

 includes in the list of significant changes in requirement 8.2 a suitable reference to ‘changes 
in the number of code members’ . 

2.  adds to the last two bullets of requirement 8.3 a suitable reference to the rules and procedures 

as set out in the code itself. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

50. 

This opinion is addressed to the Belgium supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

51.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the supervisory authority shall communicate to the Chair by 
electronic means within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its 
draft decision. Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does 
not intend to follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does 
not intend to follow this opinion, in whole or in part. The supervisory authority shall communicate the 
final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions which have been subject to the 
consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

 

12 

