 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

REPRIMAND 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Achieving for Children (AfC) in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK 
General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) in respect of certain 
infringements of the UK GDPR.   
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to AfC in respect of 
the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 5 (1)(f) states that personal data shall be: 'Processed in a 

manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures' 

 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
This investigation has found that AfC inappropriately disclosed personal 
data, special category data and criminal conviction data in a report. 
 
Due to communication failure, the manager concerned did not realise on  
two occasions that the assessment was being sent to both the birth father  
and the step-father and birth mother. As a result criminal conviction data, 
children’s data, sex life data and health data, which should have been  
removed or redacted, was disclosed in error.  
 
AfC did not have the required organisational measures in place to ensure  
that an incident such as this would not occur. The social worker 
responsible for this incident was not trained in completing redactions and  
neither was the manager who reviewed the report. This was because  
there was no redaction training offered to these members of staff at the  
time of the incident.  
 
AfC have explained that as it was the social workers first time completing  
redactions that the manager should have reviewed the redactions that  

 

1 

were completed by the social worker. However, there was no policy in 
place at AfC at the time of the incident that explained that the manager  
was responsible for the review of the redactions or how the social worker  
should approach the manager.  
 
A theme throughout the investigation, and from the evidence provided by  
AfC, was that AfC had expectations for staff to complete work in a certain  
way. However, when asked for evidence of policies or guidance 
documents that inform employees of these expectations AfC have stated  
that there are no such documents. 
 
Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that AfC have redaction  
trained business support officers and AfC state that they “are usually  
assigned the task of redacting documents for social workers in our  
organisation”. However, there was no business support officers involved  
in this incident and there was no policy in place at AfC that states  
business support officers should complete social workers redactions. 
 
Remedial steps taken by AfC 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps  
taken by AfC in the light of this incident. In particular the ongoing work to  
ensure that social workers are trained on redactions and other policies  
and guidance relevant to this incident. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to AfC in relation to the  infringements of Article 5 (1) 
(F), of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that AfC should take certain steps to 
ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular reference to Article 5  
(1)(f) of the UK GDPR, the following steps are recommended: 
 

1.  In order to ensure compliance, please ensure that every employee 

of AfC who is expected to complete redactions has completed 
redaction training. 

 

 

2 

2.  In order to ensure compliance, please ensure that the expectations 

of AfC senior leadership are documented in policy documents or 
guidance. Ensure that members of staff are routinely made aware of  
the policy and guidance documents and that they are aware of the  
expectations of senior leadership.  

3.  In order to ensure compliance, please continue to provide annual 

data protection and information governance training to all staff 

 

3 

 

 

 

 

