 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 05/2021 on the draft Administrative Arrangement 

for the transfer of personal data between  

the Haut Conseil du Commissariat aux Comptes (H3C)  

the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) 

and  

Adopted on 2 February 2021 

 

Adopted 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the facts ...................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ...................................................................................................................................... 4 

Conclusions/recommendations ...................................................................................................... 8 

Final remarks ................................................................................................................................... 9 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64(2), (3) – (8) and Article 46(3)(b) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 

Having regard to EDPB Guidelines 2/2020 on Articles 46(2)(a) and 46(3)(b) of Regulation 2016/679 for 
transfers of  personal  data  between  EEA  and  non-EEA  public  authorities  and  bodies  adopted on  15 
December 2020,  

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 

Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 

Whereas: 
 
(1) With reference to Article 46(1), (3)(b) and 46(4) GDPR, in the absence of a decision pursuant to 
Article 45(3), a controller or processor may transfer personal data to a third country or international 
organisation only if the controller or processor has provided appropriate safeguards, and on condition 
that  enforceable  data  subject  rights  and  effective  legal  remedies  for  data  subjects  are  available. 
Subject to authorisation from the competent supervisory authority (“competent SA”), the appropriate 
safeguards  may  also  be  provided  for,  in  particular,  by  provisions  inserted  into  administrative 
arrangements  between  public  authorities  or  bodies  which  include  enforceable  and  effective  data 
subject rights. 
 
(2) Taking into account the specific characteristics of the administrative arrangements provided for by 
Article  46(3)(b)2,  which  may  vary  considerably,  each  case  should  be  addressed  individually  and  is 
without prejudice to the assessment of any other administrative arrangement. 
 
(3) The EDPB ensures pursuant to Article 70(1) of the GDPR the consistent application of Regulation 
2016/679 throughout the European Economic Area. Under Article 64(2), the consistency mechanism 
may  be  triggered  by  a  supervisory  authority,  the  EDPB  Chair  or  the  Commission  for  any  matter  of 
general  application  or  producing  effects  in  more  than  one  Member  State.  The  EDPB  shall  issue  an 
opinion on the matter submitted to it provided that it has not already issued an opinion on the same 
matter. 
 
(4) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with Article 
10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks after the Chair has decided that the file is 
complete. Upon decision of the EDPB Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking 
into account the complexity of the subject matter. 
 
(5) Pursuant to Article 65(1)(c) GDPR where a competent SA does not follow the opinion of the EDPB 
issued under Article 64, any supervisory authority concerned or the Commission may communicate 
the matter to the EDPB and it shall adopt a binding decision. 

                                                           
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 See also recital 108 GDPR 
 

Adopted 

 

3 

 

 
 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

The Haut Conseil du Commissariat aux Comptes (H3C) has submitted by an official letter addressed to 
the  French  Supervisory  Authority  (Commission  Nationale  de  l’Informatique  et  des  Libertés)  a  draft 
Administrative Arrangement (hereinafter draft AA) intended to frame the transfers of personal data 
from the H3C to the PCAOB in accordance with Article 46(3)(b) GDPR.    

This draft AA was communicated to the French Supervisory Authority on 19 November 2020. 

Following the submission, the French Supervisory Authority has requested the Board for an opinion 
pursuant to Article 64(2) GDPR. The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 9 December 
2020. 

2  ASSESSMENT   

The exchange of personal data between the H3C and the PCAOB is necessary to ensure their audit 
regulatory functions in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Article 47 of Directive 2006/43/EC 
of  the  European  Parliament3,  namely  for  the  purposes  of  auditor  oversight,  inspections  and 
investigations  of  registered  audit  firms  and  their  associated  persons  subject  to  the  regulatory 
jurisdiction of the PCAOB and the H3C. 

Other EEA Audit Authorities similarly face a need to exchange personal data with the PCAOB. Thus, the 
draft  AA  currently  submitted  to  the  EDPB  for  an  opinion  might  be  considered  by  other  EEA  Audit 
Authorities as a model to follow as they seek to frame the same kind of transfers of personal data to 
the  PCAOB  in  their  specific  AAs,  AA  which  in  turn  must  be  submitted  to  the  competent  SA  for 
authorisation. As a result, the subject matter produces effects in more than one Member States within 
the meaning of Article 64(2) GDPR. 

6. 

In assessing the provisions contained in this specific AA, the EDPB has taken into account a number of 
specific elements including the type of personal data subject to the AA and the objectives pursued. 

7. 

The draft AA and its Annexes include the following guarantees: 

Definitions of concepts and data subject rights:  

8. 

Article I of the AA contains the relevant definitions necessary to determine the scope of the AA and its 
consistent  application.  Among  them  there  are  some  definitions  of  key  concepts  and  rights  of  the 
European  data  protection  legal  framework  such  as  “personal  data”,  “processing  of  personal  data”, 
“personal data breach”, “right of access” and “right of erasure”.  

 

                                                           
3 Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on statutory audits of 
annual accounts and consolidated accounts, amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC and 
repealing Council Directive 84/253/EEC 

Adopted 

 

4 

 

Principle of purpose limitation and prohibition of any further use:  

9. 

10. 

Article  III.1  of  the  AA  provides  that  personal  data  transferred  by  the  H3C  to  the  PCAOB  may  be 
processed  by  the  PCAOB  itself  only  to  fulfil  its  audit  regulatory  functions  in  accordance  with  the 
Sarbanes - Oxley Act for the purposes of auditor oversight, inspections and investigations of registered 
audit firms and their associated persons subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the PCAOB and the 
H3C. According to the principle of purpose limitation, the transfers can therefore only take place in the 
framework of such mandates and responsibilities.  The PCAOB will not be allowed to process personal 
data it receives for any purpose other than as set forth in the AA.  

Indeed, the PCAOB primarily seeks the names, and information relating to the professional activities, 
of the individual persons who were responsible for or participated in the audit engagements selected 
for  review  during  an  inspection  or  an  investigation,  or  who  play  a  significant  role  in  the  firm’s 
management and quality control. Such information would be used by the PCAOB in order to assess the 
degree of compliance of the registered accounting firm and its associated persons with the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act, the securities laws relating to the preparation and issuances of audit reports, the rules of 
the PCAOB, the rules of the SEC and relevant professional standards in connection with its performance 
of audits, issuances of audit reports and related matters involving issuers (as defined in the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act). 

Principle of data quality and proportionality:  

11.  According  to  Article  III.2  of  the  AA  the  personal  data  transferred  by  the  H3C  must  be  accurate, 
adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are transferred and 
further processed.  

12. 

In addition, each Party will inform the other if it becomes aware that previously transmitted or received 
information  is  inaccurate  and/or  must  be  updated.  Having  regard  to  the  purposes  for  which  the 
personal  data  have  been  transferred,  the  Parties  will  make  any  appropriate  corrections  to  their 
respective files, which may include supplementing, erasing, restricting the processing of, correcting or 
otherwise rectifying the personal data as appropriate.  

Principle of transparency:  

13.  As provided by Article III.3 of the AA, a general notice to data subjects will be provided by both the 
H3C and the PCAOB by publishing the AA itself on their websites. In addition to the AA, H3C will provide 
Information  in  relation  to the  processing  carried  out,  including  the  transfer,  the  type  of  entities  to 
which data may be transferred, the rights available to them under the applicable legal requirements, 
including how to exercise those rights and information about any applicable delay or restrictions on 
the exercise of such rights and the contact details for submitting a dispute or claim. The PCAOB also 
will publish on its website appropriate information relating to its processing of Personal Data, including 
information  noted  above,  as  described  in  the  Agreement.  Furthermore,  individual  notice  will  be 
provided to data subjects by the H3C in accordance with the GDPR. The H3C will notify the PCAOB in 
advance of making such individual notification.  

Principle of data retention:  

14.  Article  III.2  of  the  AA  provides  that  personal  data  must  be  retained  in  a  form  which  permits 
identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the data were 
collected or for which they are further processed, or for the time as required by applicable laws, rules 

Adopted 

 

5 

 

and  regulations.  The  Parties  shall  have  in  place  appropriate  record  disposal  procedures  for  all 
information received pursuant to this AA.  

Security and confidentiality measures:  

15.  Article III.4 of the AA envisages that the PCAOB has provided information (Annex I of the AA) describing 
its technical and organisational security measures to guard against accidental or unlawful destruction, 
loss, alteration, disclosure of, or access to the personal data. The PCAOB agrees to notify the H3C of 
any  change  to  the  technical  and  organisational  security  measures  that  would  adversely  affect  the 
protection level afforded for personal data by the AA. The PCAOB will also update the information in 
Annex I if such changes are made. In the case that the PCAOB provides such notification to the H3C, 
the H3C would notify the French Data Protection Authority of such changes. 

16. 

17. 

The PCAOB has also provided to the H3C a description of its applicable laws and/or rules relating to 
confidentiality  and  the  consequences  for  any  unlawful  disclosure  of  non-public  or  confidential 
information or suspected violations of these laws and/or rules. 

Finally, in the case where the PCAOB becomes aware of a personal data breach, it will without undue 
delay  and,  where  feasible,  not  later  than  24  hours  after  having  become  aware  that  it  affects  such 
personal data, notify the breach to the H3C. The PCAOB shall also as soon as possible use reasonable 
and appropriate means to remedy the breach and minimize the potential adverse effects.  

Safeguards relating to data subject rights:  

18.  Article III.5 of the AA provides for safeguards relating to data subject rights. In particular, data subjects 
whose personal data has been transferred to the PCAOB can exercise his/her data subject rights as 
defined in Article I(j) of the AA including by requesting that the H3C identifies any personal data that 
has  been  transferred  to  the  PCAOB.  In  addition,  data  subjects  may  request  directly  to  the  H3C  to 
confirm with the PCAOB that their personal data is complete, accurate and, if applicable, up-to-date 
and that the processing is in accordance with the principles in this AA. The PCAOB will address in a 
reasonable  and  timely  manner  any  such  request  from  the  H3C  concerning  any  Personal  Data 
transferred by the H3C to the PCAOB. The data subject can also contact the PCAOB directly.  

19.  Any restriction to these rights has to be provided by law and should be necessary and will continue 
only for as long as the reason for the restriction continues to exist. Such restrictions may be allowed 
to avoid prejudice or harm to supervisory or enforcement functions of the Parties acting in the exercise 
of the official authority vested in them, such as for the monitoring or assessment of compliance with 
the  Party’s  applicable  laws  or  prevention  or  investigation  of  suspected  offenses;  for  important 
objectives  of  general  public  interest,  as  recognized  in  the  United  States  and  in  France  or  in  the 
European  Union,  including  in  the  spirit  of  reciprocity  of  international  cooperation;  or  for  the 
supervision of regulated individuals and entities.  

Automated decision making:  

20.  Article III.5 provides  that the  PCAOB  will not  take  a legal decision concerning a  data  subject  based 

solely on automated processing of Personal Data, including Profiling, without human involvement.  

Special categories of Personal Data/Sensitive Data:  

21.  Article III.6 provides that special categories of personal data/sensitive data shall not be transferred by 

the H3C to the PCAOB. 

Adopted 

 

6 

 

Restrictions on onward transfers:  

22.  According to Article III.7 of the AA, the PCAOB will only share Personal Data received from the H3C 
with those entities identified in Annex II of the AA. In the event of such sharing, except for the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission, the PCAOB will request the prior written consent of the H3C and 
will only share such personal data if the third party provides appropriate assurances that are consistent 
with the safeguards in the AA. When requesting such prior written consent, the PCAOB should provide 
the elements to the H3C, to allow the latter to provide consent, on the type of personal data that it 
intends to share and the reasons and purposes for which the sharing would take place. If the H3C does 
not provide its written consent to such sharing within a maximum of ten days, the PCAOB will consult 
with the H3C and consider any objections it may have. If the PCAOB decides to share the personal data 
without the H3C written consent, the PCAOB will notify the H3C of its intention to share and the H3C 
may then decide whether to suspend the transfer of personal data.  This decision should be notified 
to  the  French  Data  Protection  Authority.  Furthermore,  as  an  exception,  where  the  appropriate 
assurances cannot be provided by the third party, the personal data may be shared with the third party 
with the consent of the H3C if sharing the personal data is for important reasons of public interest, as 
recognized in the United States and in France or in the European Union or if the sharing is necessary 
for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims. 

23.  Regarding the sharing of personal data with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the PCAOB 
will obtain from the former appropriate assurances that are consistent with the safeguards in the AA. 
In addition, the PCAOB will periodically inform the H3C of the nature of personal data shared and the 
reason it was shared if providing such information will not risk jeopardizing an ongoing investigation. 
Such restriction regarding information related to an ongoing investigation will continue only for as long 
as the reason for the restriction continues to exist. 

24. 

Finally, a data subject may request from the H3C certain information related to his or her personal 
data that has been transferred by the H3C to the PCAOB. It shall be the responsibility of the H3C to 
provide such information in accordance with applicable legal requirements in the GDPR and the French 
Data Protection Act.  

Redress:  

25.  Article III.8 of the AA provides for a redress mechanism. There are four layers of redress provided for 
the  data  subject  in  the  AA.  First,  any  dispute  or  claim  brought  by  a  data  subject  concerning  the 
processing of his or her personal data pursuant to the AA may be made to the H3C, the PCAOB, or 
both, as may be applicable. Each Party will inform the other Party about any such dispute or claim, and 
will use its best efforts to amicably settle the dispute or claim in a timely fashion. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

The PCAOB will inform the H3C of reports it receives from data subjects and will consult with the H3C 
on a response to the matter. 

Secondly, if a Party or the Parties is/are not able to resolve a concern or complaint made by a  data 
subject and the data subject’s concern or complaint is not manifestly unfounded or excessive, the data 
subject,  the  Party  or  Parties  may  use  a  first  layer  of  appropriate  dispute  resolution  mechanism 
conducted by an independent function within the PCAOB, known as the Hearing Officer.  

Thirdly, the decision reached through this dispute resolution mechanism may be submitted to a second 
independent review, which would be conducted by a separate independent function known as the 
Redress Reviewer. The decisions of both the Hearing Officer and the Redress Reviewer are binding on 
the PCAOB. These dispute resolution mechanisms are described in detail in Annex III of the AA.  

Adopted 

 

7 

 

29. 

In situations where the H3C is of the view that the PCAOB has not acted consistent with the safeguards 
set out in the AA, the H3C may suspend the transfers until the issue is satisfactorily addressed and may 
inform the Data Subject thereof.  

30. 

Finally, in any case, the data subject may exercise his or her rights for judicial or administrative remedy 
(including damages) according to French data protection law. 

Oversight mechanism:  

31.  Article  III.9  of  the  AA  provides  for  an  oversight  mechanism  ensuring  the  implementation  of  the 
safeguards of the  AA. This oversight  mechanism consists  of a combination of internal and external 
oversight.  

32.  With regards to the internal oversight, each Party will conduct periodic reviews of its own policies and 
procedures that implement the safeguards of the AA. Upon reasonable request from the other Party, 
a Party will review its policies and procedures to ascertain and confirm that the safeguards specified 
in this Agreement are being implemented effectively and send a summary of the review to the other 
Party. 

33.  Regarding the  external review,  upon request  by the H3C to conduct  an independent review  of the 
compliance with the safeguards in the AA, the PCAOB will notify the Office of Internal Oversight and 
Performance Assurance (“IOPA”), which is an independent office of the PCAOB, to perform a review 
to ascertain and confirm that the safeguards in the AA are being effectively implemented. The details 
of the functioning of IOPA are provided in Annex IV of the AA. IOPA will provide a summary of the 
results  of  its  review  to  the  H3C  once  the  PCAOB’s  governing  Board  approves  the  disclosure  of  the 
summary to the H3C. 

34.  Where the H3C has not received the IOPA’s results of its review and is of the view that the PCAOB has 
not acted consistent with the safeguards specific to its obligations under the AA, the H3C may suspend 
the transfers to the PCAOB until the issue is satisfactorily addressed by the PCAOB. Such suspension 
must be notified to the French Data Protection Authority.  

3  CONCLUSIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS 

35. 

The EDPB welcomes the efforts made for this AA which includes a number of important data protection 
safeguards that are in line with the GDPR and also with the safeguards laid down in Guidelines 2/2020 
of the EDPB. In order to make sure that these safeguards continue to ensure an appropriate level of 
data protection when data are transferred to the PCAOB, considering the unique nature of such non - 
binding agreements, the EDPB underlines the following: 

  The French SA will monitor the AA and its practical application especially in relation to Articles 
III.7, 8 and 9 relating to onward transfers, redress and oversight mechanisms to ensure that 
data  subjects  are  provided  with  effective  and  enforceable  data  subject  rights,  appropriate 
redress and that compliance with the AA is effectively supervised. 

  The French SA shall only authorise this AA as a suitable data protection safeguard with a view 
to the cross-border data transfer, conditional to full compliance by the signatories with all the 
clauses of the AA. 

  The French SA will suspend the relevant data flows carried out by the H3C pursuant to the 
authorisation, if the AA no longer provides for appropriate safeguards in the meaning of the 
GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

8 

 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

36. 

This opinion will be made public pursuant to Article 64(5)(b) GDPR. 

 
 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

 

9 

