 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that  

supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with  

the EU level of protection of personal data 

Adopted on 10 November 2020 

 

 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

1 

 

Executive summary 

The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was adopted to serve a dual-purpose: facilitating 
the free flow of personal data within the European Union, while preserving the fundamental rights and 
freedoms of individuals, in particular their right to the protection of personal data.  

In its recent judgment C-311/18 (Schrems II) the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) reminds 
us that the protection granted to personal data in the European Economic Area (EEA) must travel with 
the  data  wherever  it  goes.  Transferring  personal  data  to  third  countries  cannot  be  a  means  to 
undermine  or  water  down  the  protection  it  is  afforded  in  the  EEA.  The  Court  also  asserts  this  by 
clarifying that the level of protection in third countries does not need to be identical to that guaranteed 
within the EEA but essentially equivalent. The Court also upholds the validity of standard contractual 
clauses,  as  a  transfer  tool  that may  serve  to ensure contractually  an  essentially  equivalent  level of 
protection for data transferred to third countries.  

Standard contractual clauses and other transfer tools mentioned under Article 46 GDPR do not operate 
in a vacuum. The Court states that controllers or processors, acting as exporters, are responsible for 
verifying, on a case-by-case basis and, where appropriate, in collaboration with the importer in the 
third  country,  if  the  law  or  practice  of  the  third  country  impinges  on  the  effectiveness  of  the 
appropriate safeguards contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tools. In those cases, the Court still 
leaves open the possibility for exporters to implement supplementary measures that fill these gaps in 
the  protection  and  bring  it  up  to  the  level  required  by  EU  law.  The  Court  does  not  specify  which 
measures these could be. However, the Court underlines that exporters will need to identify them on 
a  case-by-case  basis.  This  is  in  line  with  the  principle  of  accountability  of  Article  5.2  GDPR,  which 
requires  controllers  to  be  responsible  for,  and  be  able  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  the  GDPR 
principles relating to processing of personal data.  

To  help  exporters  (be  they  controllers  or  processors,  private  entities  or  public  bodies,  processing 
personal data within the scope of application of the GDPR) with the complex task of assessing third 
countries  and  identifying  appropriate  supplementary  measures  where  needed,  the  European  Data 
Protection  Board  (EDPB)  has  adopted  these  recommendations.  These  recommendations  provide 
exporters with  a series of steps to follow,  potential sources of information, and some  examples of 
supplementary measures that could be put in place.  

As  a  first  step,  the  EDPB  advises  you,  exporters,  to  know  your  transfers.  Mapping  all  transfers  of 
personal data to third countries can be a difficult exercise. Being aware of where the personal data 
goes is however necessary to ensure that it is afforded an essentially equivalent level of protection 
wherever it is processed. You must also verify that the data you transfer is adequate, relevant and 
limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which it is transferred to and processed in 
the third country.  

A second step is to verify the transfer tool your transfer relies on, amongst those listed under Chapter 
V GDPR. If the European Commission has already declared the country, region or sector to which you 
are transferring the data as adequate, through one of its adequacy decisions under Article 45 GDPR or 
under the previous Directive 95/46 as long as the decision is still in force, you will not need to take any 
further steps, other than monitoring that the adequacy decision remains valid. In the absence of an 
adequacy decision, you need to rely on one  of the transfer  tools listed under Articles  46 GDPR  for 
transfers that are regular and repetitive. Only in some cases of occasional and non-repetitive transfers 
you may be able to rely on one of the derogations provided for in Article 49 GDPR, if you meet the 
conditions.  

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

2 

 

A third step is to assess if there is anything in the law or practice of the third country that may impinge 
on  the  effectiveness  of  the  appropriate  safeguards  of  the  transfer  tools  you  are  relying  on,  in  the 
context  of  your  specific  transfer.  Your  assessment  should  be  primarily  focused  on  third  country 
legislation that is relevant to your transfer and the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on and 
that may undermine its level of protection.  For evaluating the elements to be taken into account when 
assessing the law of a third country dealing with access to data by public authorities for the purpose 
of  surveillance,  please  refer  to  the  EDPB  European  Essential  Guarantees  recommendations.  In 
particular, this should be carefully considered when the legislation governing the access to data by 
public authorities is ambiguous or not publicly available. In the absence of legislation governing the 
circumstances in which public authorities may access personal data, if you still wish to proceed with 
the  transfer,  you  should  look  into  other  relevant  and  objective  factors,  and  not  rely  on  subjective 
factors such as the likelihood of public authorities’ access to your data in a manner not in line with EU 
standards. You should conduct this assessment with due diligence and document it thoroughly, as you 
will be held accountable to the decision you may take on that basis.  

A fourth step is to identify and adopt supplementary measures that are necessary to bring the level 
of protection of the data transferred up to the EU standard of essential equivalence. This step is only 
necessary if your assessment reveals that the third country legislation impinges on the effectiveness 
of the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on or you intend to rely on in the context of your 
transfer.  These  recommendations  contain  (in  annex  2)  a  non-exhaustive  list  of  examples  of 
supplementary measures with some of the conditions they would require to be effective. As is the case 
for  the  appropriate  safeguards  contained  in  the  Article  46  transfer  tools,  some  supplementary 
measures may be effective in some countries, but not necessarily in others. You will be responsible for 
assessing their effectiveness in the context of the transfer, and in light of the third country law and the 
transfer tool you are relying on and you will be held accountable for the decision you take. This might 
also  require  you  to  combine  several  supplementary  measures.  You  may  ultimately  find  that  no 
supplementary  measure  can  ensure  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection  for  your  specific 
transfer.  In  those  cases  where  no  supplementary  measure  is  suitable,  you  must  avoid,  suspend  or 
terminate the transfer to avoid compromising the level of protection of the personal data. You should 
also conduct this assessment of supplementary measures with due diligence and document it.  

A fifth step is to take any formal procedural steps the adoption of your supplementary measure may 
require, depending on the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on. These recommendations 
specify these formalities. You may need to consult your competent supervisory authorities on some of 
them.  

The sixth and final step will be for you to re-evaluate at appropriate intervals the level of protection 
afforded to the data you transfer to third countries and to monitor if there have been or there will be 
any developments that may affect it. The principle of accountability requires continuous vigilance of 
the level of protection of personal data.   

Supervisory authorities will continue exercising their mandate to monitor the application of the GDPR 
and  enforce  it.  Supervisory  authorities  will  pay  due  consideration  to  the  actions  exporters  take  to 
ensure that the data they transfer is afforded an essentially equivalent level of protection. As the Court 
recalls, supervisory authorities will suspend or prohibit data transfers in those cases where, following 
an investigation or complaint, they find that an essentially equivalent level of protection cannot be 
ensured. 

Supervisory authorities will continue developing guidance for exporters and coordinating their actions 
in the EDPB to ensure consistency in the application of EU data protection law. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

3 

 

 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

Accountability in data transfers ...................................................................................................... 7 

Roadmap: applying the principle of accountability to data transfers in practice ........................... 8 

 

 

Step 1: Know your transfers .................................................................................................... 8 

Step 2: Identify the transfer tools you are relying on ............................................................. 9 

 

Step 3: Assess whether the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on is effective in 
light of all circumstances of the transfer ........................................................................................... 12 

 

 

 

Step 4: Adopt supplementary measures ............................................................................... 15 

Step 5: Procedural steps if you have identified effective supplementary measures ............ 17 

Step 6: Re-evaluate at appropriate intervals ........................................................................ 18 

3 

Conclusion ..................................................................................................................................... 19 

ANNEX 1: DEFINITIONS .......................................................................................................................... 20 

ANNEX 2: EXAMPLES OF SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES ........................................................................ 21 

Technical measures ........................................................................................................................... 21 

Additional contractual measures ...................................................................................................... 28 

Organisational measures ................................................................................................................... 35 

ANNEX 3: POSSIBLE SOURCES OF INFORMATION TO ASSESS a third country ...................................... 38 

 

 

 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

4 

 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 70(1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the  protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter 
“GDPR”), 
 
Having  regard  to  the  European  Economic  Area  (EEA)  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and 
Protocol 37 thereof, as amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 
20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 
 
 
Whereas:  
 
(1) The Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) concludes in its judgment of 16 July 2020 Data 
Protection Commissioner v. Facebook Ireland LTD, Maximillian Schrems, C-311/18 that Article 46 (1) 
and  46  (2)(c)  of  the  GDPR  must  be  interpreted  as  meaning  that  the  appropriate  safeguards, 
enforceable rights and effective legal remedies required by those provisions must ensure that data 
subjects whose personal data are transferred to a third country pursuant to standard data protection 
clauses  are  afforded  a  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  within  the 
European Union by that regulation, read in the light of the Charter of the Fundamental Rights of the 
European Union.2  
 
(2) As underlined by the Court, a level of protection of natural persons essentially equivalent to that 
guaranteed  within  the  European  Union  by  the  GDPR,  read  in  the  light  of  the  Charter,  must  be 
guaranteed irrespective of the provision of Chapter V on the basis of which a transfer of personal data 
to a third country is carried out. The provisions of Chapter V intend to ensure the continuity of that 
high level of protection where personal data is transferred to a third country.3  
 
(3)  Recital 108  and  Article  46  (1)  GDPR  provide  that  in  the  absence  of  an  EU adequacy  decision,  a 
controller or processor should take measures to compensate for the lack of data protection in a third 
country by way of appropriate safeguards for the data subject. A controller or processor may provide 
appropriate  safeguards,  without  requiring  any  specific  authorisation  from  a  supervisory  authority, 
through its use of one of the transfer tools listed under Article 46 (2) GDPR, such as standard data 
protection clauses.  
 
(4) The Court clarifies that the standard data protection clauses adopted by the Commission are solely 
intended to provide contractual guarantees that apply uniformly in all third countries to controllers 

                                                           
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 CJEU judgment of 16 July 2020, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd, Maximillian Schrems, 
(hereinafter C-311/18 (Schrems II)), second finding. 
3 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 92 and 93.  

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

5 

 

and  processors  established  in  the  European  Union.  Due  to  their  contractual  nature,  standard  data 
protection clauses cannot bind the public authorities of third countries, since they are not party to the 
contract.  Consequently, data exporters may need to supplement the guarantees contained in those 
standard data protection clauses with supplementary measures to ensure compliance with the level 
of protection required under EU law in a particular third country. The Court refers to recital 109 of the 
GDPR, which mentions this possibility and encourages controllers and processors to use it.4 
 
(5) The Court stated that it is above all, for data exporter to verify, on a case-by-case basis and, where 
appropriate, in collaboration with the importer of the data, whether the law of the third country of 
destination  ensures  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection,  under  EU  law,  of  personal  data 
transferred  pursuant  to  standard  data  protection  clauses,  by  providing,  where  necessary, 
supplementary measures to those offered by those clauses.5  
 
(6) If the controller or a processor established in the European Union is not able to take appropriate 
supplementary measures to guarantee an essentially equivalent level of protection under EU law, the 
controller or processor or, failing that, the competent supervisory authority, are required to suspend 
or end the transfer of personal data to the third country concerned.6  
 
(7) The GDPR or the Court do not define or specify the “additional safeguards”, “additional measures” 
or “supplementary measures” to the safeguards of the transfer tools listed under Article 46.2 of the 
GDPR that controllers and processors may adopt to ensure compliance with the level of protection 
required under EU law in a particular third country.   
 
(8)The EDPB has decided, on its own initiative, to examine this question and to provide controllers and 
processors, acting as exporters, with recommendations on the process they may follow to identify and 
adopt  supplementary  measures.  These  recommendations  aim  at  providing  a  methodology  for  the 
exporters to determine whether and which additional measures would need to be put in place for their 
transfers. It is the primary responsibility of exporters to ensure that the data transferred is afforded in 
the third country of a level of protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the EU.  With 
these  recommendations,  the  EDPB  seeks  to encourage  consistent  application of  the  GDPR  and  the 
Court’s ruling, pursuant to the EDPB’s mandate7  
 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION: 
 

 

                                                           
4 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 132 and 133. 
5 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 134. 
6 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 135. 
7 Article 70.1.e GDPR.  

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

6 

 

1  ACCOUNTABILITY IN DATA TRANSFERS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

EU primary law considers the right to data protection as a fundamental right.8 Accordingly, the right to 
data protection is afforded a high level of protection and limitations may only be made if  they are 
provided for by law, respect the essence of its right, are proportionate, necessary and genuinely meet 
objectives of general interest recognised by the Union or the need to protect the rights and freedoms 
of others.9 The right to the protection of personal data is not an absolute right; it must be considered 
in relation to its function in society and be balanced against other fundamental rights, in accordance 
with the principle of proportionality.10  

An essentially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed within the EU must accompany the 
data when it travels to third countries outside the EEA to ensure that the level of protection guaranteed 
by the GDPR is not undermined.  

The right to data protection has an active nature. It requires exporters and importers (whether they 
are controllers and/or processors) to go beyond an acknowledgement or passive compliance with this 
right.11 Controllers and processors must seek to comply with the right to data protection in an active 
and continuous manner by implementing legal, technical and organisational measures that ensure its 
effectiveness.  Controllers  and  processors  must  also  be  able  to  demonstrate  these  efforts  to  data 
subjects, the general public and data protection supervisory authorities. This is the so called principle 
of accountability.12  

The principle of accountability, which is necessary to ensure the effective application of the level of 
protection conferred by the GDPR also applies to data transfers to third countries13 since they are a 
form of data processing in themselves.14 As the Court underlined in its judgment, a level of protection 
essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the European Union by the GDPR read in the light of 
the Charter must be guaranteed irrespective of the provision of that chapter on the basis of which a 
transfer of personal data to a third country is carried out.15 

In the Schrems II judgment, the Court emphasizes the responsibilities of exporters and importers to 
ensure that the processing of personal data has been and will continue to be carried out in compliance 
with the level of protection set by EU data protection law and to suspend the transfer and/or terminate 
the contract where the importer of the data is not, or is no longer, able to comply with standard data 
protection clauses incorporated in the relevant contract between the exporter and the importer.16 The 
controller  or  processor  acting  as  exporter  must  ensure  that  the  importers  collaborate  with  the 
exporter, where appropriate, in its performance of these responsibilities, by keeping it informed, for 
instance, of any development  affecting the level of protection of the  personal data received in  the 

                                                           
8 Article 8(1) Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 16 (1) TFEU, preamble 1, Article 1 (2) GDPR. 
9 Article 52(1) of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. 
10 Recital 4 of the GDPR and C-507/17 Google LLC, successor in law to Google Inc. v. Commission nationale de 
l’informatique et des libertés (CNIL), paragraph 60. 
11 C-92/09 and C-93/02, Volker und Markus Schecke GbR v. Land Hessen, Opinion of Advocate General Sharpston, 
17 June 2010, paragraph 71. 
12 Article 5.2 and Article 28.3 (h) GDPR. 
13 Article 44 and recital 101 GDPR, as well as Article 47(2)(d) GDPR. 
14 CJEU judgment of 6 October 2015, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, (hereinafter C-362/14 
(Schrems I)), paragraph 45. 
15 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 92 and 93. 
16 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 134, 135, 139, 140, 141, 142. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

7 

 

importer’s country.17 These responsibilities are an application of the GDPR principle of accountability 
to the data transfers.18   

2  ROADMAP: APPLYING THE PRINCIPLE OF ACCOUNTABILITY TO DATA 

TRANSFERS IN PRACTICE 

6.  What follows is a roadmap of the steps to take in order to find out if you (the data exporter) need to 
put in place supplementary measures to be able to legally transfer data outside the EEA. “You” in this 
document means the controller or processor acting as data exporter, processing personal data within 
the scope of application of the GDPR – including processing by private entities and public bodies when 
transferring  data  to  private  bodies.19  As  for  transfers  of  personal  data  carried  out  between  public 
bodies, specific guidance is provided for in the Guidelines 2/2020 on Articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of 
Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal data between EEA and non-EEA public authorities and 
bodies.20   

7. 

8. 

You will need to document appropriately this assessment and the supplementary measures you select 
and implement and make such documentation available to the competent supervisory authority upon 
request.21  

  Step 1: Know your transfers 

To know what may be required for you (the data exporter) to be able to continue with or to conduct 
new transfers of personal data22, the first step is to ensure that you are fully aware of your transfers 
(know  your  transfers).  Recording  and  mapping  all  transfers  can  be  a  complex  exercise  for  entities 
engaging  into  multiple,  diverse  and  regular  transfers  with  third  countries  and  using  a  series  of 
processors and sub-processors. Knowing your transfers is an essential first step to fulfil your obligations 
under the principle of accountability.  

9. 

To gain full awareness of your transfers, you can build on the records of processing activities that you 
may be obliged to maintain as controller or processor under Article 30 GDPR.23 Previous actions to fulfil 

                                                           
17 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 134. 
18 Article 5 (2) and Article 28 (3) (h) GDPR. 
19 See EDPB Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the GDPR (Article 3) https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-32018-territorial-scope-gdpr-article-3-version_en  
20 EDPB Guidelines 2/2020 on Articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal 
data  between  EEA  and  non-EEA  public  authorities  and  bodies;  see  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/public-consultations-art-704/2020/guidelines-22020-articles-46-2-and-46-3-b_en 
21 Article 5(2) GDPR and Article 24 (1) GDPR. 
22 Please note that remote access by an entity from a third country to data located in the EEA is also considered 
a transfer.  
23 See Article 30 GDPR and in particular paragraphs 1.e and 2.c.  Moreover, your records of processing should 
contain a description of your processing activities (including, but not limited to, the categories of data subjects, 
the categories of personal data and purposes of the processing and specific information about data transfers. 
Some  controllers  and  processors  are  exempt  from  the  obligation  to  keep  records  of  processing  (Article  30.5 
GDPR). For guidance on this exemption, see Article 29 Working Party, Position Paper on the derogations from 
the obligation to maintain records of processing activities pursuant to Article 30.5 GDPR (endorsed by the EDPB 
on 25 May 2018). 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

8 

 

the obligations to inform data subjects under Articles 13.1.f and 14.1.f GPDR about your transfers of 
their personal data to third countries may also assist you.24 

10.  When  mapping  transfers,  do  not  forget  to  also  take  into  account  onward  transfers,  for  instance 
whether your processors outside the EEA transfer the personal data you entrusted to them to a sub-
processor in another third country or in the same third country25.  

11. 

12. 

In line with the GDPR principle of “data minimisation”,26 you must verify that the data you transfer is 
adequate,  relevant  and  limited  to  what  is  necessary  in  relation  to  the  purposes  for  which  it  is 
transferred to and processed in the third country.  

These  activities  must  be  carried  out  before  any  transfer  is  made  and  updated  prior  to  resuming 
transfers after suspension of data transfer operations: you must know where the personal data you 
exported may be located or processed by the importers (map of destinations).  

13.  Keep  in  mind  that  remote  access  from  a  third  country  (for  example  in  support  situations)  and/or 
storage in a cloud situated outside the EEA, is also considered to be a transfer.27 More specifically, if 
you are using an international cloud infrastructure you must assess if your data will be transferred to 
third countries and where, unless the cloud provider clearly states in its contract that the data will not 
be processed at all in third countries.  

  Step 2: Identify the transfer tools you are relying on 

14.  A second step you must take is to identify the transfer tools you are relying on amongst those Chapter 

V GDPR lists and envisages.   

Adequacy decisions 

15. 

The European Commission may recognise through its adequacy decisions relating to some or all of the 
third  countries  to  which  you  are  transferring  personal  data  that  they  offer  an  adequate  level  of 
protection for personal data.28  

16. 

The  effect  of  such  an  adequacy  decision  is  that  personal  data  can  flow  from  the EEA  to  that  third 
country without any Article 46 GDPR transfer tool being necessary.  

                                                           
24  Under  GDPR  transparency  rules,  you  must  inform  data  subjects  about  transfers  of  personal  data  to  third 
countries (Articles 13.1.f and 14.1.f GDPR). In particular, you must inform them of the existence or absence of an 
adequacy decision by the European Commission, or in the case of transfers referred to in Articles 46 or 47 GDPR, 
or the second subparagraph of Article 49.1 GDPR, refer to the appropriate or suitable safeguards and the means 
by which to obtain a copy of them or where they have been made available. The information provided to the 
data subject must be correct and current, especially in light of the Court’s case law concerning transfers. 
25 Where the controller has granted its prior specific or general written authorisation in accordance with Article 
28.2 GDPR.  
26 Article 5.1.c GDPR. 
27 See FAQ nr. 11 “it should be borne in mind that even providing access to data from a third country, for instance 
for administration purposes, also amounts to a transfer”, EDPB Frequently Asked Questions on the judgment of 
the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-311/18 - Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland 
Ltd and Maximillian Schrems, 23 July 2020. 
28 The European Commission has the power to determine, on  the basis of Article 45 GDPR whether a country 
outside the EU offers an adequate level of data protection. Likewise the European Commission has the power to 
determine that an international organisation offers an adequate level of protection.  

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

9 

 

17.  Adequacy decisions may cover a country as a whole or be limited to a part of it. Adequacy decisions 
may cover all data transfers to a country or be limited to some types of transfers (e.g. in one sector).29  

18. 

The European Commission publishes the list of its adequacy decisions on its website.30 

19. 

If you transfer personal data to third countries, regions or sectors covered by a Commission adequacy 
decision (to the extent applicable), you do not need to take any further steps as described in these 
recommendations.31 However, you must still monitor if adequacy decisions relevant to your transfers 
are revoked or invalidated.32 

20.  However, adequacy decisions do not prevent data subjects from filing a complaint. Nor do they prevent 
supervisory  authorities  from  bringing  a case  before a  national  court  if  they  have  doubts  about  the 
validity of a decision, so that a national court can make a reference for a preliminary ruling to the CJEU 
for the purpose of examining that validity.33  

Example: An EU citizen, Mr. Schrems, filed a complaint on June 2013 with the Irish Data Protection 
Commission  (DPC)  and  asked  this  supervisory  authority  to  prohibit  or  suspend  the  transfer  of  his 
personal data from Facebook Ireland to the United States, as he considered that the law and practice 
of  the  United  States  did  not  ensure  adequate  protection  of  the  personal  data  held  in  its  territory 
against  the  surveillance  activities  that  were  engaged  in  there  by  the  public  authorities.  The  DPC 
rejected  the  complaint,  on  the  ground,  in  particular,  that  in  Decision  2000/520  the  European 
Commission considered that, under the ‘safe harbour’ scheme, the United States ensured an adequate 
level  of  protection  of  the  personal  data  transferred  (the  Safe  Harbour  Decision).   Mr.  Schrems 
challenged  the  decision  of  the  DPC  and  the  Irish  High  Court  referred  a  question  on  the  validity  of 
Decision  2000/520  to  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the  European  Union  (CJEU).  The  CJEU  subsequently 
decided to invalidate the Commission Decision 2000/520 on the adequacy of the protection provided 
by the safe harbour privacy principles.34  

 

 

                                                           
29 Article 45.1 GDPR. 
30https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/international-dimension-data-
protection/adequacy-decisions_en  
31 Provided you and data importer have implemented measures to comply with the other obligations under the 
GDPR; otherwise implement those measures. 
32 The European Commission must review periodically all adequacy decisions and monitor if the third countries 
benefitting from adequacy decisions continue to ensure an adequate level of protection (see Art. 45.3 and 45.4 
GDPR). Also, the CJEU may invalidate adequacy decisions (see its judgments on the cases C-362/14 (Schrems I) 
and C-311/18 (Schrems II). 
33 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 118 - 120. Supervisory authorities may not disregard the adequacy decision 
and suspend or prohibit transfers of personal data to such countries citing only the inadequacy of the level of 
protection. They may only exercise their power to suspend or prohibit transfers of personal data to that third 
country on other grounds (e.g. insufficient security measures in violation of Article 32 GDPR, no legal basis validly 
underpins the data processing as such in violation of Article 6 GDPR). Supervisory authorities may examine, with 
complete independence, whether the transfer of that data complies with the requirements laid down by the 
GDPR and, where relevant, bring an action before the national courts in order for them, if they have doubts as 
to the validity of the Commission adequacy decision, to make a reference for a preliminary ruling before the 
European Court of Justice for the purposes of examining its validity.  
34 Case C-362/14 (Schrems I). 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

10 

 

Article 46 GDPR transfer tools 

21.  Article 46 GDPR lists a series of transfer tools containing “appropriate safeguards” that exporters may 
use to transfer personal data to third countries in the absence of adequacy decisions The main types 
of Article 46 GDPR transfer tools are: 

standard data protection clauses clauses (SCCs); 

- 
-  binding corporate rules (BCRs); 
- 
- 
- 

codes of conduct; 
certification mechanisms; 
ad hoc contractual clauses. 

  

22.  Whatever  Article 46 GDPR transfer tool  you choose, you must  ensure  that, overall,  the transferred 

personal data will have the benefit of an essentially equivalent level of protection.  

23.  Article 46 GDPR transfer tools mainly contain appropriate safeguards of a contractual nature that may 
be  applied  to  transfers  to  all  third  countries.  The  situation  in  the  third  country  to  which  you  are 
transferring data may still require that you supplement these transfer tools and the safeguards they 
contain  with  additional  measures  (“supplementary  measures”)  to  ensure  an  essentially  equivalent 
level of protection.35 

Derogations 

24.  Besides  adequacy  decisions  and  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tools,  the  GDPR  contains  a  third  avenue 
allowing transfers of personal data in certain situations. Subject to specific conditions, you may still be 
able to transfer personal data based on a derogation listed in Article 49 GDPR.  

25.  Article  49  GDPR  has  an  exceptional  nature.  The  derogations  it  contains  must  be  interpreted 
restrictively and mainly relate to processing activities that are occasional and non-repetitive. The EDPB 
has issued its Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679. 36 

26. 

 Before relying on an Article 49 GDPR derogation, you must check whether your transfer meets the 
strict conditions this provision sets forth for each of them. 

*** 

27. 

If your transfer can neither be legally based on an adequacy decision, nor on an Article 49 derogation, 
you need to continue with step 3.  

 

 

                                                           
35 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 130 and 133. See also point 2.3 below.  
36 For further guidance on this see  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/guidelines/guidelines-22018-derogations-article-49-under-regulation_en. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

11 

 

  Step 3: Assess whether the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on is 

effective in light of all circumstances of the transfer 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

Selecting an Article 46 GDPR transfer tool may not be enough. The transfer tool must ensure that the 
level of protection guaranteed by the GDPR is not undermined by the transfer.37 In other words, your 
transfer tool must be effective in practice.   

Effective means that the transferred personal data is afforded a level of protection in the third country 
that  is  essentially  equivalent  to  that  are  guaranteed  in  the  EEA.38  This  is  not  the  case  if  the  data 
importer is prevented from complying with their obligations under the chosen Article 46 GDPR transfer 
tool due to the third country’s legislation and practices applicable to the transfer. 

Therefore, you must assess, where appropriate in collaboration with the importer, if there is anything 
in the law or practice of the third country that may impinge on the effectiveness of the appropriate 
safeguards  of  the  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tool  you  are  relying  on,  in  the  context  of  your  specific 
transfer.  Where appropriate, your data importer should provide you with the relevant sources and 
information  relating  to  the  third  country  in  which  it  is  established  and  the  laws  applicable  to  the 
transfer. You may also refer to other sources of information, such as the ones listed non-exhaustively 
in Annex 3.39   

Your  assessment  should  take  into  consideration  all  the  actors  participating  in  the  transfer  (e.g. 
controllers, processors and sub-processors processing data in the third country), as identified in the 
mapping  exercise  of  transfers.  The  more  controllers,  processors  or  importers  involved,  the  more 
complex your assessment will be. You will also need to factor into this assessment any onward transfer 
that may occur. 

32. 

To this end, you will need to look into the characteristics of each of your transfers and determine how 
the domestic legal order of the country to which data is transferred (or onward transferred) applies to 
these transfers.   

33. 

The applicable legal context will depend on the circumstances of the transfer, in particular: 

- 

Purposes  for  which  the  data  are  transferred  and  processed  (e.g.  marketing,  HR, 
storage, IT support, clinical trials); 
Types of entities involved in the processing (public/private; controller/processor); 
Sector in which the transfer occurs (e.g. adtech, telecommunication, financial, etc); 

- 
- 
-  Categories of personal data transferred (e.g. personal data relating to children may fall 

within the scope of specific legislation in the third country);  

-  Whether the data will be stored in the third country or whether there is only remote 

- 
- 

access to data stored within the EU/EEA; 
Format of the data to be transferred (i.e. in plain text/ pseudonymised or encrypted40); 
Possibility that the data may be subject to onward transfers from the third country to 
another third country.41 

                                                           
37 Article 44 GDPR.  
38 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 105 and second finding. 
39 See also paragraph 43 here below. 
40 Some third countries do not permit encrypted data to be imported. 
41 Where the controller has granted its prior specific or general written authorisation in accordance with Article 
28.2 GDPR. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

12 

 

34.  Among the applicable laws, you will have to assess if any impinge on the commitments contained in 
the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you have chosen. You should verify if commitments enabling data 
subjects to exercise their rights in the context of international transfers (such as access, correction and 
deletion requests for transferred data) can be effectively applied in practice and are not thwarted by 
law in the third country of destination. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

You will need to assess relevant rules of a general nature insofar as they have an impact on the effective 
application of the safeguards contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool and the fundamental rights 
of individuals (in particular, the right of redress afforded to the data subject in case of access by third 
country public authorities to the transferred data).  

You  should  in  any  case  pay  specific  attention  to  any  relevant  laws,  in  particular  laws  laying  down 
requirements to disclose personal data to public authorities or granting such public authorities powers 
of  access  to  personal  data  (for  instance  for  criminal  law  enforcement,  regulatory  supervision  and 
national  security  purposes).  If  these  requirements  or  powers  are  limited  to  what  is  necessary  and 
proportionate in a democratic society,42 they may not impinge on the commitments contained in the 
Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are relying on.  

EU standards, such as Articles 47 and 52 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, must be used as a 
reference  to  assess  whether  such  access  by  public  authorities  is  limited  to  what  is  necessary  and 
proportionate in a democratic society and whether data subjects are afforded effective redress.   

In carrying out this assessment, different aspects of the legal system of that third country, e.g. the 
elements listed in Article 45(2) GDPR, are also be relevant.43 For example, the rule of law situation in a 
third country may be relevant to assess the effectiveness of available mechanisms for individuals to 
obtain  (judicial)  redress  against  unlawful  government  access  to  personal  data.  The  existence  of  a 
comprehensive data protection law or an independent data protection authority, as well as adherence 
to international instruments providing for data protection safeguards, may contribute to ensuring the 
proportionality of government interference.44  

*** 

39. 

The EDPB European Essential Guarantees (EEG) recommendations provide elements which have to be 
assessed  to  determine  whether  the  legal  framework  governing  access  to  personal  data  by  public 
authorities in a third country, being national security agencies or law enforcement authorities, can be 
regarded as a justifiable interference (and therefore as not impinging on the commitments taken in 
the  art  46  GDPR  transfer  tool)  or  not.  In  particular,  this  should  be  carefully  considered  when  the 
legislation governing the access to data by public authorities is ambiguous or not publicly available. 

                                                           
42  See  Articles  47  and  52  of  the  EU  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights,  Article  23.1  GDPR,  and  EDPB 
Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures,  10  November 
2020, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/edpb-recommendations-
022020-european-essential_en . 
43 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 104. 
44 For instance: Convention 108 (Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing 
of Personal Data, ETS no. 108) or Convention 108+ (Modernised Convention for the Protection of Individuals with 
Regard to the Processing of Personal Data, CETS no 223) provide enforceable, international legal remedies in 
case of data protection violations and contribute to provide a minimum level of protection of personal data and 
respect for private life. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

13 

 

40.  Applied  to  the  situation  of  data  transfers  based  on  Article  46  transfer  tools,  the  EDPB  European 
Essential Guarantees recommendations can guide the data exporter and data importer in assessing 
whether such powers unjustifiably interfere with the data importer’s obligations to ensure essential 
equivalence.  

41. 

42. 

The lack of an essentially equivalent level of protection will be especially evident where the legislation 
or  practice  of  the  third  country  relevant  to  your  transfer  does  not  meet  the  requirements  of  the 
European Essential Guarantees.  

Your assessment must be based first and foremost on legislation publicly available. However, in some 
situations this will not suffice because the legislation in the third countries may be lacking. In this case, 
if you still wish to envisage the transfer, you should look into other relevant and objective factors45, 
and not rely on subjective ones such as the likelihood of public authorities’ access to your data in a 
manner  not  in  line  with  EU  standards.  You  should  conduct  this  assessment with  due  diligence  and 
document it thoroughly, as you will be held accountable to the decision you may take on that basis.46  

43. 

You may complete your assessment with information obtained from other sources47, such as: 

- Elements demonstrating that a third country authority will seek to access the data with or 
without  the  data  importer’s  knowledge,  in  light  of  reported  precedents,  legislation  and 
practice;  
- Elements demonstrating that a third country authority will be able to access the data through 
the  data  importer  or  through  direct  interception  of  the  communication  channel  in  light  of 
reported  precedents,  legal  powers,  and  technical,  financial,  and  human  resources  at  its 
disposal. 

44. 

Your assessment may ultimately reveal that  the  Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you rely on, and the 
appropriate safeguards it contains: 

- Effectively ensures that the transferred personal data is afforded a level of protection in the 
third  country  that  is  essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  within  the  EEA.  The  third 
country’s legislation and practices applicable to the transfer put the data importer in a position 
to  comply  with  its  obligations  under  the  chosen  transfer  tool.  You  should  re-evaluate  at 
appropriate intervals, or when significant changes come to light (see step 6).  
- Does not effectively ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection. The data importer 
cannot comply with its obligations, owing to the third country’s legislation and/or practices 
applicable to the transfer. The CJEU underlined that where Article 46 GDPR transfer tools fall 
short, it is the responsibility of the data exporter to either put in place effective supplementary 
measures or to not transfer personal data.48 

 

 

                                                           
45 See paragraph 43 here below as well as Annex 3. 
46 Art. 5(2) GDPR. 
47 See also Annex 3. 
48 CJEU C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 134-135. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

14 

 

The CJEU held, for example, that Section 702 of the U.S. FISA does not respect the minimum safeguards 
resulting from the principle of proportionality under EU law and cannot be regarded as limited to what 
is strictly necessary.  This means that the level of protection of the programs authorised by 702 FISA is 
not  essentially  equivalent  to  the  safeguards  required  under  EU  law.  As  a  consequence,  if  the  data 
importer or any further recipient to which the data importer may disclose the data falls under 702 
FISA49,  SCCs  or  other  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tools  may  only  be  relied  upon  for  such  transfer  if 
additional  supplementary  technical  measures  make  access  to  the  data  transferred  impossible  or 
ineffective.  

  Step 4: Adopt supplementary measures 

45. 

46. 

If your assessment under step 3 has revealed that your Article 46 GDPR transfer tool is not effective, 
then you will need to consider, where appropriate in collaboration with the importer, if supplementary 
measures exist, which, when added to the safeguards contained in transfer tools, could ensure that 
the data transferred is afforded in the third country a level of protection essentially equivalent to that 
guaranteed  within  the  EU.50  “Supplementary  measures”  are  by  definition  supplementary  to  the 
safeguards the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool already provides.51 

You must identify on a case-by-case basis which supplementary measures could be effective for a set 
of transfers to a specific third country when using a specific Article 46 GDPR transfer tool. You will be 
able to build on your previous assessments under steps (1, 2  and 3 above) and check against their 
findings the potential effectiveness of the supplementary measures in guaranteeing the required level 
of protection.  

47. 

In  principle,  supplementary  measures  may  have  a  contractual,  technical  or  organisational  nature. 
Combining diverse measures in a way that they support and build on each other may enhance the level 
of protection and may therefore contribute to reaching EU standards.  

48.  Contractual and organisational measures alone will generally not overcome access to personal data by 
public  authorities  of  the  third  country  (where  this  unjustifiably  interferes  with  the  data  importer’s 
obligations  to  ensure  essential  equivalence).  Indeed  there  will  be  situations  where  only  technical 
measures might impede or render ineffective access by public authorities in third countries to personal 
data,  in  particular  for  surveillance  purposes.52  In  such  situations,  contractual  or  organisational 
measures may complement technical measures and strengthen the overall level of protection of data, 

                                                           
49 FISA  702 is applicable if the  data  is obtained “from or  with the assistance of an electronic communication 
service provider” (Section 702 FISA = 50 USC § 1881a, under (h)(2)(A)(vi)), which in turn is defined in 50 USC § 
1881(b)(4) as 
“(A) a telecommunications carrier, as that term is defined in section 153 of title 47; 
(B) a provider of electronic communication service, as that term is defined in section 2510 of title 18; 
(C) a provider of a remote computing service, as that term is defined in section 2711 of title 18; 
(D) any other communication service provider who has access to wire or electronic communications either as 
such communications are transmitted or as such communications are stored; or 
(E) an officer, employee, or agent of an entity described in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D).” 
50 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 96. 
51 Recital 109 of the GDPR and C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 133. 
52 Where such access goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society; see Articles 47 
and 52 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 23.1 GDPR, and EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the 
European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures,  10  November  2020,  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-
work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/edpb-recommendations-022020-european-essential_en . 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

15 

 

e.g. by creating obstacles for attempts from public authorities to access data in a manner not compliant 
with EU standards.  

49. 

You  may,  in  collaboration  with  the  data  importer  where  appropriate,  look  at  the  following  (non-
exhaustive)  list  of  factors  to  identify  which  supplementary  measures  would  be  most  effective  in 
protecting the data transferred: 

- Format of the data to be transferred (i.e. in plain text/pseudonymised or encrypted); 
- Nature of the data; 
-  Length  and  complexity  of  data  processing  workflow,  number  of  actors  involved  in  the 
processing,  and  the  relationship  between  them  (e.g.  do  the  transfers  involve  multiple 
controllers or both controllers and processors, or involvement of processors which will transfer 
the data  from you to your data  importer  (considering  the relevant  provisions applicable to 
them under the legislation of the third country of destination));53 
- Possibility that the data may be subject to onward transfers, within the same third country 
or even to other third countries (e.g. involvement of sub-processors of the data importer54). 

Examples of supplementary measures 

50. 

Some examples of technical, contractual and organisational measures that could be considered may 
be found in the non-exhaustive lists described in the Annex 2.  

*** 

51. 

If you have put in place effective supplementary measures, which combined with your chosen Article 
46  GDPR  transfer  tool  reach  a  level of  protection  that  is  now  essentially  equivalent  to  the  level of 
protection guaranteed within the EEA: your transfers may go ahead.  

52.  Where you are not able to find or implement effective supplementary measures that ensure that the 
transferred  personal  data  enjoys  an  essentially  equivalent  level of  protection,55  you  must  not  start 
transferring personal data to the third country concerned on the basis of the Article 46 GDPR transfer 
tool you are relying on. If you are already conducting transfers, you are required to suspend or end the 
transfer of personal data.56 Pursuant to the safeguards contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool 
you are relying on, the data that you have already transferred to that third country and the copies 
thereof should be returned to you or destroyed in their entirety by the importer.57  

Example: the law of the third country prohibits the supplementary measures you have identified (e.g. 
prohibits  the  use  of  encryption)  or  otherwise  prevents  their  effectiveness.  You  must  not  start 
transferring personal data to this country, or you must stop ongoing existing transfers to this country.  

                                                           
53 The GDPR assigns distinct obligations to controllers and processors. Transfers can be controller-to-controller, 
between joint controllers, controller-to-processor, and, subject to the authorisation of the controller, processor-
to-controller or processor-to-processor. 
54 See footnote 25. 
55 Where such access goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society; see Articles 47 
and 52 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 23.1 GDPR, and EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the 
European  Essential  Guarantees  for  surveillance  measures,  10  November  2020,  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-
work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/edpb-recommendations-022020-european-essential_en . 
56 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 135. 
57 See Clause 12 in the annex to the SCC Decision 87/2010; see the (optional) Extra termination clause in Annex 
B SCC 2004/915/EC. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

16 

 

53. 

If you decide  to continue with the  transfer notwithstanding the fact that the importer is unable to 
comply  with  the  commitments  taken  in  the  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tool,  you  should  notify  the 
competent supervisory authority in accordance with the specific provisions inserted in the relevant 
Article 46 GDPR transfer tool.58   The  competent supervisory authority  will suspend or prohibit data 
transfers  in  those  cases  where  it  finds  that  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection  cannot  be 
ensured.59   

54. 

The competent supervisory authority may impose any other corrective measure (e.g. a fine) if, despite 
the fact that you cannot demonstrate an essentially equivalent level of protection in the third country, 
you start or continue the transfer. 

  Step 5: Procedural steps if you have identified effective supplementary measures 

55. 

The  procedural  steps  you  may  have  to  take  in  case  you  have  identified  effective  supplementary 
measures to be put in place may differ depending on the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool you are using 
or you envisage to use. 

2.5.1  Standard data protection clauses (“SCCs”) (Art. 46(2)(c) and (d) GDPR) 

56.  When you intend to put in place supplementary measures in addition to SCCs, there is no need for you 
to  request  an  authorisation  from  the  competent  SA  to  add  these  kind  of  clauses  or  additional 
safeguards as long as the identified supplementary measures do not contradict, directly or indirectly, 
the  SCCs  and  are  sufficient  to  ensure  that  the  level  of  protection  guaranteed  by  the  GDPR  is  not 
undermined.60  The  data  exporter  and  importer  need  to  ensure  that  additional  clauses  cannot  be 
construed in any way to restrict the rights and obligations in the SCCs or in any other way to lower the 
level  of  data  protection.  You  should  be  able  to  demonstrate  this,  including  the  unambiguity  of  all 
clauses, according to the accountability principle and your obligation to provide for a sufficient level of 
data  protection.    The  competent  supervisory  authorities  have  the  power  to  review  these 
supplementary clauses where required (e.g. in case of complaint or own-volition inquiry). 

57.  Where  you  intend  to  modify  the  standard  data  protection  clauses  themselves  or  where  the 
supplementary measures added ‘contradict’ directly or indirectly the SCCs, you are no longer deemed 
to be relying on standard contractual clauses61 and must seek an authorisation with the competent 
supervisory authority in accordance with Article 46(3)(a) GDPR.  

                                                           
58 See EDPB Frequently Asked Questions on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case 
C-311/18 - Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd and Maximillian Schrems adopted 23 July 2020 
and in particular FAQ 5, 6 and 9. See also Clause 4(g) Commission Decision 2010/87/EU; Clause 5(a) Commission 
Decision 2001/497/EC and Annex ‘Set II’ clause II (c) of Commission Decision 2004/915/EC. 
59 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 113 and 121. 
60 Recital 109 of the GDPR states: “The possibility for the controller or processor to use standard data-protection 
clauses  adopted  by  the  Commission  or  by  a  supervisory  authority  should  prevent  controllers  or  processors 
neither from including the standard data-protection clauses in a wider contract, such as a contract between the 
processor and another processor, nor from adding other clauses or additional safeguards provided that they do 
not  contradict,  directly  or  indirectly,  the  standard  contractual  clauses  adopted  by  the  Commission  or  by  a 
supervisory authority or prejudice the fundamental rights or freedoms of the data subjects.” Similar provisions 
are provided in sets of SCCs adopted by the European Commission under Directive 95/45/EC. 
61  See  by  analogy,  the  EDPB  Opinion  17/2020  on  the  draft  Standard  Contractual  Clauses  submitted  by  the 
Slovenian SA (Article 28(8) GDPR) on Art. 28 SCC already adopted which contains a similar provision (“In addition, 
the Board recalls that the possibility to use Standard Contractual Clauses adopted by a supervisory authority does 
not prevent the parties from adding other clauses or additional safeguards provided that they do not contradict, 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

17 

 

2.5.2  BCRs (Art. 46(2)(b) GDPR) 

58. 

59. 

60. 

61. 

The  reasoning  put  forward  by  the  Schrems  II  judgment  also  applies  to  other  transfer  instruments 
pursuant to Article 46(2) GDPR since all of these instruments are basically of contractual nature, so the 
guarantees  foreseen  and  the  commitments  taken  by  the  parties  therein  cannot  bind  third  country 
public authorities.62 

The Schrems II judgement is relevant for transfers of personal data on the basis of BCRs, since third 
countries  laws  may  affect  the  protection  provided  by  such  instruments.  The  precise  impact  of  the 
Schrems II judgment on BCRs is still under discussion. The EDPB will provide more details as soon as 
possible  as  to  whether  any  additional  commitments  may  need  to  be  included  in  the  BCRs  in  the 
WP256/257 referentials.63 

The Court highlighted that it is the responsibility of the data exporter and the data importer to assess 
whether the level of protection required by EU law is respected in the third country concerned in order 
to determine if the guarantees provided by the SCCs or the BCRs can be complied with in practice. If 
this is not the case, you should assess whether you can provide supplementary measures to ensure an 
essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EEA, and if the law or practice of the third 
country will not impinge on these supplementary measures so as to prevent their effectiveness. 

2.5.3  Ad hoc contractual clauses (Art. 46.3(a) GDPR) 

The  reasoning  put  forward  by  the  Schrems  II  judgment  also  applies  to  other  transfer  instruments 
pursuant to Article 46 (2) GDPR since all of these instruments are basically of contractual nature, so 
the guarantees foreseen and the commitments taken by the parties therein cannot bind third country 
public authorities.64 The Schrems II judgement is therefore relevant for transfers of personal data on 
the basis of ad hoc contractual clauses, since third countries laws may affect the protection provided 
by such instruments. The precise impact of the Schrems II judgment on ad hoc clauses is still under 
discussion. The EDPB will provide more details as soon as possible.  

  Step 6: Re-evaluate at appropriate intervals 

62. 

You must monitor, on an ongoing basis, and where appropriate in collaboration with data importers, 
developments in the third country to which you have transferred personal data that could affect your 
initial assessment of the level of protection and the decisions you may have taken accordingly on your 
transfers. Accountability is a continuing obligation (Article 5(2) GDPR). 

 

 

to 

be 

have 

deemed 

                                                           
directly or indirectly, the adopted standard contractual clauses or prejudice the fundamental rights or freedoms 
of the data subjects. Furthermore, where the standard data protection clauses are modified, the parties will no 
longer 
clauses”), 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_opinion_202017_art28sccs_si_en.pdf. 
62 CJEU, C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 132. 
63 Article 29 Working Party, Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found 
in Binding Corporate Rules, as last revised and adopted on 6 February 2018, WP 256 rev.01; Article 29 Working 
Party, Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found in Binding Corporate 
Rules, as last revised and adopted on 6 February 2018, WP 257 rev.01. 
64 CJEU, C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 132. 

implemented 

contractual 

standard 

adopted 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

18 

 

63. 

You should put sufficiently sound mechanisms in place to ensure that you promptly suspend or end 
transfers where: 

- the importer has breached or is unable to honour the commitments it has taken in the Article 
46 GDPR transfer tool; or 
- the supplementary measures are no longer effective in that third country. 

3  CONCLUSION 

64. 

65. 

66. 

The  GDPR  lays  down  rules  on  processing  personal  data  in  the  EEA  and  in  doing  so  allows  for  free 
movement of personal data within the EEA. Chapter V of the GDPR governs transfers of personal data 
to  third  countries  and  sets  a  high  bar:  the  transfer  must  not  undermine  the  level  of  protection  of 
natural persons guaranteed by the GDPR (Article 44 GDPR). The CJEU C-311/18 (Schrems II) judgement 
underscores the need to ensure the continuity of the level of protection afforded under the GDPR to 
personal data transferred to a third country.65 

To ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection of your data, you must first and foremost know 
thoroughly your transfers. You must also check that the data you transfer is adequate, relevant and 
limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which it is transferred to and processed in 
the third country. 

You must also identify the transfer tool you are relying on for your transfers. If the transfer tool is not 
an adequacy decision, you must verify on a case-by-case basis whether (or not) the law or practice of 
the third country of destination undermines the safeguards contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer 
tool  in the context of your transfers. Where the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool alone fails to achieve for 
the personal data you transfer a level of protection essentially equivalent, supplementary measures 
may fill the gap.  

67.  Where you are not able to find or implement effective supplementary measures that ensure that the 
transferred  personal  data  enjoys  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection,  you  must  not  start 
transferring personal data to the third country concerned on the basis of your chosen transfer tool. If 
you are  already conducting transfers, you are  required to  promptly  suspend or end the transfer of 
personal data.  

68. 

The competent supervisory authority has the power to suspend or end transfers of personal data to 
the third country if the protection of the data transferred that EU law requires, in particular Articles 45 
and 46 GDPR and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, is not ensured. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

 

                                                           
65 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 93. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

19 

 

ANNEX 1: DEFINITIONS 

• 

“Third country” means any country that is not a Member State of the EEA. 

• 
“EEA” means the European Economic Area and it includes the Member States of the European 
Union  and  Iceland,  Norway  and  Liechtenstein.  The GDPR  applies  to the  latter  by  virtue  of  the  EEA 
Agreement, in particular its Annex XI and Protocol 37. 

• 
“GDPR” refers to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 
27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and 
on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Directive  95/46/EC  (General  Data  Protection 
Regulation). 

“The Charter” refers to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, OJ C 326, 

• 
26.10.2012, p. 391–407. 

• 
“CJEU” or “the Court” refer to the Court of Justice of the European Union. It constitutes the 
judicial  authority  of  the  European  Union  and,  in  cooperation  with  the  courts  and  tribunals  of  the 
Member States, it ensures the uniform application and interpretation of EU law. 

“Data exporter” means the controller or processor within the EEA who transfers personal data 

• 
to a controller or processor in a third country. 

“Data  importer” means the  controller or  processor  in  a  third  country  who  receives  or  gets 

• 
access to personal data transferred from the EEA.  

• 
 “Article 46 GDPR transfer tool”: refers to the appropriate safeguards under Article 46 GDPR 
that data exporters shall put in place when transferring personal data to a third country, in the absence 
of an adequacy decision pursuant to Article 45(3) GDPR. Article 46(2) and (3) of the GDPR contains the 
list of Article 46 GDPR transfer tools that controllers and processors may use.  

 “SCCs” means standard data protection clauses (or “standard contractual clauses”) adopted 
• 
by the European Commission for personal data transfers between controllers or processors in the EEA 
and controllers or processors outside the EEA. Standard contractual clauses adopted by the European 
Commission are a transfer tool under the GDPR, as per Article 46(2)(c) and (5) GDPR. 

 

 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

20 

 

ANNEX 2: EXAMPLES OF SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES 

69. 

The following measures are examples of supplementary measures you could consider when you reach 
Step 4 “Adopt supplementary measures”. This list is not exhaustive. Selecting and implementing one 
or several of these measures will not necessarily and systematically ensure that your transfer meets 
the  essential  equivalence  standard  that  EU  law  requires.  You  should  select  those  supplementary 
measures that can effectively guarantee this level of protection for your transfers. 

70.  Any  supplementary  measure  may  only  be  deemed  effective  in  the  meaning  of  the  CJEU  judgment 
“Schrems II” if and to the extent that it addresses the specific deficiencies identified in your assessment 
of the legal situation in the third country. If, ultimately, you cannot ensure an essentially equivalent 
level of protection, you must not transfer the personal data. 

71.  As  a  controller  or  processor,  you  may  already  be  required  to  implement  some  of  the  measures 
described in this annex, even if your data importer is covered by an adequacy decision, just as you may 
be required to implement them when you process data within the EEA.66 

Technical measures 

72. 

This  section  describes  in  a  non-exhaustive  manner  examples  of  technical  measures,  which  may 
supplement safeguards found in Article 46 GDPR transfer tools to ensure compliance with the level of 
protection required under EU law in the context of a transfer of personal data to a third country. These 
measures  will  be  especially  needed  where  the  law  of  that  country  imposes  on  the  data  importer  
obligations which are contrary to the safeguards of Article 46 GDPR transfer tools and are, in particular, 
capable  of  impinging  on  the  contractual  guarantee  of  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection 
against access by the public authorities of that third country to that data67.  

73. 

For further clarity, this section specifies first the technical measures that could potentially be effective 
in  certain  scenarios/use-cases  to  ensure  an  essentially  equivalent  level  of  protection.  The  section 
continues with some scenarios/use cases in which no technical measures could be found to ensure this 
level of protection.   

Scenarios for which effective measures could be found 

74. 

The  measures  listed  below  are  intended  to  ensure  that  access  to  the  transferred  data  by  public 
authorities  in  third  countries  does  not  impinge  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  appropriate  safeguards 
contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tools.  These measures apply even if the public authorities’ 
access    complies  with  the  law  of  the  importer’s  country,  where  such  access  goes  beyond  what  is 
necessary and proportionate in a democratic society68. These measures aim to preclude potentially 
infringing access by preventing the authorities from identifying the data subjects, inferring information 
about  them,  singling  them  out  in  another  context,  or  associating  the  transferred  data  with  other 

                                                           
66 Article 5.2 GDPR, Article 32 GDPR.   
67 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 135. 
68  See  Articles  47  and  52  of  the  EU  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights,  Article  23.1  GDPR,  and  EDPB 
Recommendations on the European Essential Guarantees for Surveillance Measures. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

21 

 

datasets they may  possess  that  may  contain,  among  other  data,  online  identifiers  provided  by the 
devices, applications, tools and protocols used by data subjects in other contexts.  

75.  Public authorities in third countries may endeavour to access transferred data 

a) 

In transit by accessing the lines of communication used to convey the data to the recipient 
country. This access may be passive in which case the contents of the communication, possibly 
after a selection process, are simply copied. The access may, however, also be active in the sense 
that the public authorities interpose themselves into the communication process by not only 
reading the content, but also manipulating or suppressing parts of it. 
 

b)  While in custody by an intended recipient of the data by either accessing the processing facilities 
themselves, or by requiring a recipient of the data to locate, and extract data of interest and turn 
it over to the authorities. 

76. 

This section considers scenarios where measures are applied that are effective in both cases. Different 
supplementary measures may apply and be sufficient in the given circumstance of a concrete transfer 
if only one type of access is foreseen by the law of the recipient country. It is therefore necessary for 
the data exporter to carefully analyse, with the support of the data importer, the obligations laid upon 
the latter.  

As  an  example,  US  data  importers  that  fall  under  50  USC  §  1881a  (FISA  702)  are  under  a  direct 
obligation to grant access to or turn over imported personal data that are in their possession, custody 
or control. This may extend to any cryptographic keys necessary to render the data intelligible.  

77. 

The scenarios describe specific circumstances, and measures taken. Any changes to the scenarios may 
give rise to different conclusions. 

78.  Controllers may have to apply some or all of the measures described here irrespective of the level of 
protection provided for by the laws applicable to the data importer because they are needed to comply 
with Articles 25 and 32 GDPR in the concrete circumstances of the transfer. In other words, exporters 
may be required to implement the measures described in this paper even if their data importers are 
covered by an adequacy decision, just as controllers and processors may be required to implement 
them when data is processed within the EEA. 

Use Case 1: Data storage for backup and other purposes that do not require access to data in 
the clear 

79.  A  data  exporter  uses  a  hosting  service  provider  in  a  third  country  to  store  personal  data,  e.g.,  for 

backup purposes.  

If  

1.  the personal data is processed using strong encryption before transmission, 
2.  the encryption algorithm and its parameterization (e.g., key length, operating mode, if applicable) 
conform to the state-of-the-art and can be considered robust against cryptanalysis performed by 
the  public  authorities  in  the  recipient  country  taking  into  account  the  resources  and  technical 
capabilities (e.g., computing power for brute-force attacks) available to them, 

3.  the  strength  of  the  encryption  takes  into  account  the  specific  time  period  during  which  the 

confidentiality of the encrypted personal data must be preserved, 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

22 

 

4.  the  encryption  algorithm  is  flawlessly  implemented  by  properly  maintained  software  the 
conformity  of  which  to  the  specification  of  the  algorithm  chosen  has  been  verified,  e.g.,  by 
certification,  

5.  the keys are reliably managed (generated, administered, stored, if relevant, linked to the identity 

of an intended recipient, and revoked), and 

6.  the keys are retained solely under the control of the data exporter, or other entities entrusted with 
this task which reside in the EEA or a third country, territory or one or more specified sectors within 
a third country, or at an international organisation for which the Commission has established in 
accordance with Article 45 GDPR that an adequate level of protection is ensured,  

then the EDPB considers that the encryption performed provides an effective supplementary 
measure. 

Use Case 2: Transfer of pseudonymised Data 

80.  A data exporter first pseudonymises data it holds, and then transfers it to a third country for analysis, 

e.g., for purposes of research. 

If  

1.  a data exporter transfers personal data processed in such a manner that the personal data can no 
longer be attributed to a specific data subject, nor be used to single out the data subject in a larger 
group, without the use of additional information69, 

2.  that  additional  information  is  held  exclusively  by  the  data  exporter  and  kept  separately  in  a 
Member  State  or  in  a  third  country,  territory  or  one  or  more  specified  sectors  within  a  third 
country,  or  at  an  international  organisation  for  which  the  Commission  has  established  in 
accordance with Article 45 GDPR that an adequate level of protection is ensured,  

3.  disclosure or unauthorised use of that additional information is prevented by appropriate technical 
and  organisational  safeguards,  it  is  ensured  that  the  data  exporter  retains  sole  control  of  the 
algorithm or repository that enables re-identification using the additional information, and 

4.  the controller has established by means of a thorough analysis of the data in question taking into 
account any information that the public authorities of the recipient country may possess that the 
pseudonymised personal data cannot be attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person 
even if cross-referenced with such information, 

then the EDPB considers that the pseudonymisation performed provides an effective supplementary 
measure. 

81.  Note that in many situations, factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, 
cultural or social identity of a natural person, their physical location or their interaction with an internet 

                                                           
69 In line with Article 4(5) GDPR: “‘pseudonymisation’ means the processing of personal data in such a manner 
that  the  personal  data  can  no  longer  be  attributed  to  a  specific  data  subject  without  the  use  of  additional 
information,  provided  that  such  additional  information  is  kept  separately  and  is  subject  to  technical  and 
organisational  measures  to  ensure  that  the  personal  data  are  not  attributed  to  an  identified  or  identifiable 
natural person;”. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

23 

 

based service at specific points in time70 may allow the identification of that person even if their name, 
address or other plain identifiers are omitted.  

82. 

This is particularly true whenever the data concern the use of information services (time of access, 
sequence of features accessed, characterisitics of the device used etc.). These services might well be, 
as for the importer of personal data, under the obligation to grant access to the same public authorities 
in their jurisdiction, which will then likely possess data about the use of those information services by 
the person(s) they target. 

83.  Moreover, given the  use of some  information services  is public by nature, or their exploitability by 
parties  with  substantial  resources,  controllers  will  have  to  take  extra  care  considering  that  public 
authorities in their jurisdiction likely possess data about the use of information services by a person 
they target.  

Use Case 3: Encrypted data merely transiting third countries 

84.  A data exporter wishes to transfer data to a destination recognised as offering adequate protection in 

accordance with Article 45 GDPR. The data is routed via a third country. 

If 

1.  a  data  exporter  transfers  personal  data  to  a  data  importer  in  a  jurisdiction  ensuring  adequate 
protection, the data is transported over the internet, and the data may be geographically routed 
through a third country not providing an essentially equivalent level of protection, 

2.  transport encryption is used for which it is ensured that the encryption protocols employed are 
state-of-the-art and provide effective protection against active and passive attacks with resources 
known to be available to the public authorities of the third country, 

3.  decryption is only possible outside the third country in question, 
4.  the parties involved in the communication agree on a trustworthy public-key certification authority 

or infrastructure,  

5.  specific protective and state-of-the-art measures are used against active and passive attacks on 

6. 

transport-encrypted, 
in case the transport encryption does not provide appropriate security by itself due to experience 
with vulnerabilities of the infrastructure or the software used, personal data is also encrypted end-
to-end on the application layer using state-of-the-art encryption methods, 

7.  the encryption algorithm and its parameterization (e.g., key length, operating mode, if applicable) 
conform to the state-of-the-art and can be considered robust against cryptanalysis performed by 
the  public  authorities  in  the  transiting  country  taking  into  account  the  resources  and  technical 
capabilities (e.g., computing power for brute-force attacks) available to them, 

8.  the  strength  of  the  encryption  takes  into  account  the  specific  time  period  during  which  the 

confidentiality of the encrypted personal data must be preserved, 

9.  the  encryption  algorithm  is  flawlessly  implemented  by  properly  maintained  software  the 
conformity  of  which  to  the  specification  of  the  algorithm  chosen  has  been  verified,  e.g.,  by 
certification,  

                                                           
70 Art. 4(1) GDPR: “’ personal data’ means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person 
(‘data subject’); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by 
reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one 
or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of 
that natural person;”. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

24 

 

10. the existence of backdoors (in hardware or software) has been ruled out, 
11. the keys are reliably managed (generated, administered, stored, if relevant, linked to the identity 
of the intended recipient, and revoked), by the exporter or by an entity trusted by the exporter 
under a jurisdiction offering an essentially equivalent level of protection, 

then the EDPB considers that transport encryption, if needed in combination with end-to-end 
content encryption, provides an effective supplementary measure. 

Use Case 4: Protected recipient 

85.  A data exporter transfers personal data to a data importer in a third country specifically protected by 
that country’s law, e.g., for the purpose to jointly provide medical treatment for a patient, or legal 
services to a client.  

If 

1.  the law of a third country exempts a resident data importer from potentially infringing access to 
data held by that recipient for the given purpose, e.g. by virtue of a duty to professional secrecy 
applying to the data importer, 

2.  that exemption extends to all information in the possession of the data importer that may be used 
to  circumvent  the  protection  of  privileged  information  (cryptographic  keys,  passwords,  other 
credentials, etc.), 

3.  the  data  importer  does  not  employ  the  services  of  a  processor  in  a  way that  allows  the  public 
authorities to access the data while held by the processor, nor does the data importer forward the 
data to another entity that is not protected, on the basis of Article 46 GDPR transfer tools, 

4.  the personal data is encrypted before it is transmitted with a method conforming to the state of 
the art guaranteeing that decryption will not be possible without knowledge of the decryption key 
(end-to-end encryption) for the whole length of time the data needs to be protected, 

5.  the decryption key is in the sole custody of the protected data importer, and appropriately secured 
against unauthorised use or disclosure by technical and organisational measures conforming to 
the state of the art, and 

6.  the data exporter has reliably established that the encryption key it intends to use corresponds to 

the decryption key held by the recipient, 

then the EDPB considers that the transport encryption performed provides an effective 
supplementary measure. 

Use Case 5: Split or multi-party processing 

86. 

The data exporter wishes personal data to be processed jointly by two or more independent processors 
located  in  different  jurisdictions  without  disclosing  the  content  of  the  data  to  them.  Prior  to 
transmission, it splits the data in such a way that no part an individual processor receives suffices to 
reconstruct  the  personal  data  in  whole  or  in  part.  The  data  exporter  receives  the  result  of  the 
processing from each of the processors independently, and merges the pieces received to arrive at the 
final result which may constitute personal or aggregated data. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

25 

 

If 

1.  a data exporter processes personal data in such a manner that it is split into two or more parts 
each of which can no longer be interpreted or attributed to a specific data subject without the use 
of additional information, 

2.  each of the pieces is transferred to a separate processor located in a different jurisdiction, 
3.  the processors optionally process the data jointly, e.g. using secure multi-party computation, in a 
way  that  no  information  is  revealed  to  any  of  them  that  they  do  not  possess  prior  to  the 
computation, 

4.  the algorithm used for the shared computation is secure against active adversaries, 
5.  there  is  no  evidence  of  collaboration  between  the  public  authorities  located  in  the  respective 
jurisdictions where each of the processors are located, which would allow them access to all sets 
of personal data held by the processors and enable them to reconstitute and exploit the content 
of the personal data in a clear form in circumstances where such exploitation would not respect 
the  essence  of  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data  subjects.  Similarly,  public 
authorities  of  either  country  should  not  have  the  authority  to  access  personal  data  held  by 
processors in all jurisdictions concerned. 

6.  the controller has established by means of a thorough analysis of the data in question, taking into 
account any information that the public authorities of the recipient countries may possess, that 
the pieces of personal data it transmits to the processors cannot be attributed to an identified or 
identifiable natural person even if cross-referenced with such information, 

then the EDPB considers that the split processing performed provides an effective supplementary 
measure. 

Scenarios in which no effective measures could be found  

87. 

The  measures  described  below  under  certain  scenarios  would  not  be  effective  in  ensuring  an 
essentially equivalent level of protection for the data transferred to the third country. Therefore, they 
would not qualify as supplementary measures.  

Use Case 6: Transfer to cloud services providers or other processors which require access to 
data in the clear 

88.  A  data  exporter  uses  a  cloud  service  provider  or  other  processor  to  have  personal  data  processed 

according to its instructions in a third country. 

If  

1.  a controller transfers data to a cloud service provider or other processor, 
2.  the cloud service  provider or other  processor needs access to the data in the clear in order to 

execute the task assigned, and 

3.  the power granted to public  authorities of the recipient country to access the transferred data 

goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society,71 

                                                           
71  See  Articles  47  and  52  of  the  EU  Charter  of  Fundamental  Rights,  Article  23.1  GDPR,  and  EDPB 
Recommendations on the European Essential Guarantees for Surveillance Measures. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

26 

 

then  the  EDPB  is,  considering  the  current  state  of  the  art,  incapable  of  envisioning  an  effective 
technical measure to prevent that access from infringing on data subject rights. The EDPB does not 
rule  out  that  further  technological  development  may  offer  measures  that  achieve  the  intended 
business purposes, without requiring access in the clear. 

89. 

In the given scenarios, where unencrypted personal data is technically necessary for the provision of 
the service by the processor, transport encryption and data-at-rest encryption even taken together, 
do not constitute a supplementary measure that ensures an essentially equivalent level of protection 
if the data importer is in possession of the cryptographic keys. 

Use Case 7: Remote access to data for business purposes  

90.  A  data  exporter makes  personal  data  available  to  entities  in  a  third  country to  be  used  for  shared 
business purposes. A typical constellation may consist of a controller or processor established on the 
territory of a Member State transferring personal data to a controller or processor in a third country 
belonging to the same  group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint  economic 
activity. The data importer may, for example, use the data it receives to provide personnel services for 
the data exporter for which it needs human resources data, or to communicate with customers of the 
data exporter who live in the European Union by phone or email. 

If 

1.  a data exporter transfers personal data to a data importer in a third country by making it available 
in a commonly used information system in a way that allows the importer direct access of data of 
its own choice, or by transferring it directly, individually or in bulk, through use of a communication 
service, 

2.  the importer uses the data in the clear for its own purposes, 
3.  the power granted to public  authorities of the recipient country to access the transferred data 

goes beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic society, 

then the EDPB is incapable of envisioning an effective technical measure to prevent that access from 
infringing on data subject rights.  

91. 

In the given scenarios, where unencrypted personal data is technically necessary for the provision of 
the service by the processor, transport encryption and data-at-rest encryption even taken together, 
do not constitute a supplementary measure that ensures an essentially equivalent level of protection 
if the data importer is in possession of the cryptographic keys. 

 

 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

27 

 

Additional contractual measures 

92. 

93. 

These  measures  will  generally  consist  of  unilateral,  bilateral  or  multilateral72  contractual 
commitments.73 If  an  Article  46  GDPR  transfer  tool  is  used,  it  will  in  most  cases  already  contain  a 
number of (mostly contractual) commitments by the data exporter and the data importer aimed at 
serving as safeguards for the personal data.74   

In some situations, these measures may complement and reinforce the safeguards the transfer tool 
and relevant legislation of the third country may provide, when, taking into account the circumstances 
of the transfer, these do not meet all the conditions required to ensure a level of protection essentially 
equivalent to that guaranteed within the EU. Provided the nature of contractual measures, generally 
not capable of binding the authorities of that third country, when they are not party to the contract75, 
these measures should be combined with other technical and organisational measures to provide the 
level of data protection required. Selecting and implementing one or several of these measures will 
not necessarily and systematically ensure that your transfer meets the essential equivalence standard 
that EU law requires. 

94.  Depending on what contractual measures are already included in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool that 
is relied on, additional contractual measures may also be helpful to allow EEA-based data exporters to 
become aware of new developments affecting the protection of the data transferred to third countries.  

95.  As said, contractual measures will not be able to rule out the application of the legislation of a third 
country  which  does  not  meet  the  EDPB  European  Essential  Guarantees  standard  in  those  cases  in 
which the legislation obliges importers to comply with the orders to disclose data they receive from 
public authorities.76  

96. 

Some examples of these potential contractual measures are listed below and classified in accordance 
with their nature: 

Providing for the contractual obligation to use specific technical measures 

97.  Depending on the specific circumstances of the transfers, the contract may need to provide that for 
transfers  to  take place,  specific  technical  measures would have  to be put in place (see  supra  the 
technical measures suggested). 

98.  Conditions for effectiveness:  

                                                           
72 E.g. within BCRs which should in any case regulate some of the measures listed below. 
73 They will have a private nature and not be considered as international agreements under public international 
law. Accordingly, they will normally fail to bind the third country’s public authority as non-parties to the contract 
when  concluded  with  private  bodies  in  third  countries,  as  the  Court  underlined  in  its  judgment  C-311/18 
(Schrems II), paragraph 125. 
74 See judgment C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 137 where the Court as a result recognised that the SCC contain 
« effective  mechanisms  that  make  it  possible,  in  practice,  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  level  of  protection 
required by EU law and that transfers of personal data pursuant to the clauses of such a decision are suspended 
or prohibited in the event of the breach of such clauses or it being impossible to honour them » see also paragraph 
148). 
75 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 125. 
76 CJEU judgment C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 132. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

28 

 

- This clause could be effective in those situations where the need for technical measures has 
been identified by the exporter. It would then have to be provided in a legal form to ensure 
that the importer also commits to put in place the necessary technical measures if need be. 

Transparency obligations:  

99. 

The exporter could add annexes to the contract with information that the importer would provide, 
based  on  its  best  efforts,  on  the  access  to  data  by  public  authorities,  including  in  the  field  of 
intelligence provided the legislation complies with the EDPB European Essential Guarantees, in the 
destination  country.  This  might  help  the  data  exporter  to  meet  its  obligation  to  document  its 
assessment of the level of protection in the third country. 

100.  The importer could be for instance required to: 

(1) enumerate the laws and regulations in the destination country applicable to the importer 
or its (sub) processors that would permit access by public authorities to the personal data that 
are  subject  to  the  transfer,  in  particular  in  the  areas  of  intelligence,  law  enforcement, 
administrative and regulatory supervision applicable to the transferred data;  
(2) in the absence of laws governing the public authorities’ access to data provide information 
and  statistics  based  on  the  importer’s  experience  or  reports  from  various  sources  (e.g. 
partners, open sources, national case law and decisions from oversight bodies) on access by 
public authorities to personal data in situations of the kind of the data transfer at hand (i.e. in 
the  specific  regulatory  area;  regarding  the  type  of  entities  to  which  the  data  importer 
belongs;…) 
(3) indicate which measures are taken to prevent the access to transferred data (if any);  
(4) provide sufficiently detailed information on all requests of access to personal data by public 
authorities which the importer has received over a specified period of time,77 in particular in 
the areas mentioned under (1) above and comprising information about the requests received, 
the data requested, the requesting body and the legal basis for disclosure and to what extent 
the importer has disclosed the data request;78 
(5)  specify  whether  and  to  what  extent  the  importer  is  legally  prohibited  to  provide  the 
information mentioned under (1) – (5) above.   

101.  This information could be provided by way of structured questionnaires that the importer would fill in 
and sign and compounded by the importer’s contractual obligation to declare within a set period of 
time any potential change to this information, as is current practice for due diligence processes.  

102.  Conditions for effectiveness:  

- The importer must be able to provide the exporter with these types of information to the 
best of its knowledge and after having used its best efforts to obtain it.79  

                                                           
77 The length of period should depend on the risk for the rights and freedoms of the data subjects whose data 
are subject to the transfer at stake – e.g. the last year before closure of the data export instrument with the data 
exporter 
78 Complying with this duty does not as such amount to providing for an appropriate level of protection. At the 
same  time  any  inappropriate  disclosure  that  has  actually  happened  leads  to  the  necessity  of  implementing 
supplementary measures.  
79 See paragraph 32.5 above. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

29 

 

- This obligation imposed on the importer is a means to ensure that the exporter becomes and 
remains aware of the risks attached to the transfer of data to a third country. It will thus enable 
the exporter to desist from concluding the contract, or if the information changes following its 
conclusion, to fulfil its obligation to suspend the transfer and/or terminate the contract if the 
law of the third country, the safeguards contained in the Article 46 GDPR transfer tool used 
and any additional safeguards it may have adopted can no longer ensure a level of protection 
essentially  equivalent  to  that  in  the  EU.  This  obligation  can  however  neither  justify  the 
importer’s disclosure of personal data nor give rise to the expectation that there will be no 
further access requests. 

*** 

103.  The exporter could also add clauses whereby the importer certifies that (1) it has not purposefully 
created back doors or similar programming that could be used  to access the system and/or personal 
data (2) it has not purposefully created or changed its business processes in a manner that facilitates 
access to personal data or systems, and (3) that national law or government policy does not require 
the importer to create or maintain back doors or to facilitate access to personal data or systems or 
for the importer to be in possession or to hand over the encryption key.80   

104.  Conditions for effectiveness: 

- The existence of legislation or government policies preventing importers from disclosing this 
information may render this clause ineffective. The importer will thus not be able to enter into 
the contract or will need to notify to the exporter of its inability to continue complying with its 
contractual commitments.81 
- The contract must include penalties and/or the exporter’s ability to terminate the contract 
on short notice in those cases in which the importer does not reveal the existence of a back 
door  or  similar  programming  or  manipulated  business  processes  or  any  requirement  to 
implement any of these or fails to promptly inform the exporter once their existence comes to 
its knowledge.  

*** 

105.  The  exporter  could  reinforce  its  power  to  conduct  audits82  or  inspections  of  the  data  processing 
facilities of the importer, on-site and/or remotely, to verify if data was disclosed to public authorities 
and under which conditions (access not beyond what is necessary and proportionate in a democratic 
society), for instance by providing for a short notice and mechanisms ensuring the rapid intervention 
of inspection bodies and reinforcing the autonomy of the exporter in selecting the inspection bodies.  

106.  Conditions for effectiveness: 

- The scope of the audit should legally and technically cover any processing by the importer’s 
processors or sub-processors of the personal data transmitted in the third country to be fully 
effective. 

                                                           
80 This clause is important  to guarantee an adequate level of protection of the personal data transferred  and 
should usually be required.  
81 See paragraph 32.5 above. 
82 See for instance Clause 5.f of SCCs between controllers and processors Decision 2010/87/EU, the audits could 
also be provided within a code of conduct or through certification. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

30 

 

-  Access  logs  and  other  similar  trails  should  be  tamper  proof  so  that  the  auditors  can  find 
evidence  of  disclosure.  Access  logs  and other  similar  trails  should  also  distinguish  between 
accesses due to regular business operations and accesses due to orders or requests for access.  

*** 

107.  Where the law and practice of the third country of the importer was initially assessed and deemed 
to provide an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU for data transferred by 
the  exporter,  the  exporter  could  still  strengthen  the  obligation  of  the  data  importer  to  inform 
promptly the data exporter of its inability to comply with the contractual commitments and  as a 
result with the required standard of “essentially equivalent level of data protection”.83.  

108.  This inability to comply may result from changes in the third country’s legislation or practice.84 The 
clauses could set specific and strict time limits and procedures for the swift suspension of the transfer 
of  data  and/or  the  termination  of  the  contract  and  the  importer’s  return  or  deletion  of  the  data 
received. Keeping track of the requests received, their scope, and the effectiveness of the measures 
adopted to counter them, should provide the exporter with sufficient indications to exercise its duty 
to suspend or end the transfer and/or terminate the contract.  

109.  Conditions for effectiveness:  

- The notification needs to take place before access is granted to the data. Otherwise, by the 
time the exporter receives the notification, the rights of the individual may have already been 
violated if the request is based on laws of that third country that exceed what the level of data 
protection afforded under EU law permits. The notification may still serve to prevent future 
violations and to allow the exporter to fulfil its duty to suspend the transfer of personal data 
to the third country and/or terminate the contract.   
-  The  data  importer  must  monitor  any  legal  or  policy  developments  that  might  lead  to  its 
inability to comply with its obligations, and promptly inform the data exporter of any such 
changes and developments, and if possible ahead of their implementation to enable the data 
exporter to recover the data from the data importer.  
- The clauses should provide for a quick mechanism whereby the data exporter authorises the 
data  importer  to  promptly  secure  or  return  the  data  to  the  data  exporter,  or  if  this  is  not 
feasible,  delete  or  securely  encrypt  the  data  without  necessarily  waiting  for  the  exporter’s 
instructions,  if  a  specific  threshold  to  be  agreed  between  the  data  exporter  and  the  data 
importer is met. The importer should implement this mechanism from the beginning of the 
data transfer and test it regularly to ensure that it can be applied on short notice.  
- Other clauses could enable the exporter to monitor the importer’s compliance with these 
obligations via audits, inspections and other verification measures and to enforce them with 

                                                           
83 Clause 5.a and d.i of SCCs Decision 2010/87/EU.  
84 See C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 139 in which the Court  asserts that  “although Clause 5(d)(i) allows  a 
recipient of personal data not to notify a controller established in the European Union of a legally binding request 
for disclosure of the personal data by a law enforcement authority, in the event of legislation prohibiting that 
recipient from doing so, such as a prohibition under criminal law the aim of which is to preserve the confidentiality 
of a law enforcement investigation, the recipient is nevertheless required, pursuant to Clause 5(a) in the annex to 
the  SCC  Decision,  to  inform  the  controller  of  his  or  her  inability  to  comply  with  the  standard  data  protection 
clauses.” 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

31 

 

penalties  on  the  importer  and/or  the  exporter’s  capacity  to  suspend  the  transfer  and/or 
terminate immediately the contract. 

*** 

110.  Insofar as allowed by national law in the third country, the contract could reinforce the transparency 
obligations  of  the  importer  by  providing  for  a  “Warrant  Canary”  method,  whereby  the  importer 
commits  to  regularly  publish  (e.g.  at  least  every  24  hours)  a  cryptographically  signed  message 
informing the exporter that as of a certain date and time it has received no order to disclose personal 
data or the like. The absence of an update of this notification will indicate to the exporter that the 
importer may have received an order. 

111.  Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  The  regulations  of  the  third  country  must  permit  the  data  importer  to  issue  this  form  of 
passive notification to the exporter.  
- The data exporter must automatically monitor the warrant canary notifications.  
- The data importer must ensure that its private key for signing the Warrant Canary is kept safe 
and that it cannot be forced to issue false Warrant Canaries by the regulations of the third 
country. To this end, it might be of use if several signatures by different persons are needed 
and/or the Warrant Canary is issued by a person outside the third country’s jurisdiction. 

Obligations to take specific actions 

112.  The importer could commit to reviewing, under the law of the country of destination, the legality of 
any order to disclose data, notably whether it remains within the powers granted to the requesting 
public authority, and to challenge the order if, after a careful assessment, it concludes that there are 
grounds under the law of the country of destination to do so. When challenging an order, the data 
importer should seek interim measures to suspend the effects of the order until the court has decided 
on the merits. The importer would have the obligation not to disclose the personal data requested 
until required to do so under the applicable procedural rules. The data importer would also commit 
to providing the minimum amount of information permissible when responding to the order, based 
on a reasonable interpretation of the order. 

113.  Conditions for effectiveness:  

- The legal order of the third country must offer effective legal avenues to challenge orders to 
disclose data. 
- This clause will always offer a very limited additional protection as an order to disclose data 
may be lawful under the legal order of the third country, but this legal order may not meet EU 
standards.  This  contractual  measure  will  necessarily  need  to  be  complementary  to  other 
supplementary measures.  
- The challenges to the orders must have a suspensive effect under the law of the third country. 
Otherwise, public authorities would still have access to the individuals’ data and any ensuing 
action in favor of the  individual  would have the  limited effect of allowing him/her to claim 
damages for negative consequences resulting from the data disclosure.  
- The importer will need to be able to document and demonstrate to the exporter the actions 
it has taken, exercising its best efforts, to fulfill this commitment. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

32 

 

*** 

114.  In the same situation as described above, the the importer could commit to inform the requesting 
public authority of the incompatibility of the order with the safeguards contained in the Article 46 
GDPR transfer tool85 and the resulting conflict of obligations for the importer. The importer would 
notify  simultaneously  and  as  soon  as  possible  the  exporter  and/or  the  competent  supervisory 
authority from the EEA, insofar as possible under the third country legal order.  

115.  Conditions for effectiveness:  

- Such information on the protection conferred by EU law and the conflict of obligations should 
have some legal effect in the legal order of the third country, such as a judicial or administrative 
review  of  the  order  or  request  for  access,  the  requirement  of  a  judicial  warrant,  and/or  a 
temporary suspension of the order to add some protection to the data. 
- The legal system of the country must not prevent the importer from notifying the exporter 
or at least the competent supervisory authority from the EEA of the order or request for access 
received.  
- The importer will need to be able to document and demonstrate to the exporter the actions 
it has taken, exercising its best efforts, to fulfill this commitment. 

Empowering data subjects to exercise their rights 

116.  The  contract  could  provide  that  personal  data  transmitted  in  plain  text  in  the  normal  course  of 
business (including in support cases) may only be accessed with the express or implied consent of the 
exporter and/or the data subject. 

117.  Conditions for effectiveness:  

- This clause could be effective in those situations in which importers receive requests from 
public authorities to cooperate on a voluntary basis, as opposed to e.g. data access by public 
authorities that occurs without the data importer’s knowledge or against its will. 
- In some situations the data subject may not be in a position to oppose the access or to give 
a consent that meets all the conditions set out under EU law (freely given, specific, informed, 
and unambiguous) (e.g in the case of employees)86.  
- National regulations or policies compelling the importer not to disclose the order for access 
may render this clause ineffective, unless it can be backed with technical methods requiring 
the exporter’s or the data subject’s intervention for the data in plant text to be accessible. 
Such  technical  measures  to  restrict  access  may  be  envisaged  in  particular  if  access  is  only 
granted in specific support or service cases, but the data itself is stored in the EEA. 

                                                           
85 For instance, the SCCs provide that the processing of data, including the transfer thereof, has been and will 
continue to be carried out in accordance with “the applicable data protection law”. This law is defined as “the 
legislation protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and, in particular, their right to privacy 
with respect to the processing of personal data applicable to a data controller in the Member State in which the 
data exporter is established”. The CJEU confirms that the provisions of the GDPR, read in light of the EU Charter 
of Fundamental rights, form part of that legislation, see CJEU C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 138.  
86 Article 4(11) GDPR. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

33 

 

*** 

118.  The contract could oblige the importer and/or the exporter to notify promptly the data subject of the 
request  or  order  received  from  the  public  authorities  of  the  third  country,  or  of  the  importer’s 
inability to comply with the contractual commitments, to enable the data subject to seek information 
and an effective redress (e.g. by lodging a claim with his/her competent supervisory authority and/or 
judicial authority and demonstrate his/her standing in the courts of the third country).  

119.  Conditions for effectiveness:  

- This notification could alert the data subject to potential accesses by public authorities in 
third  countries  to  his/her  data.  It  could  thus  enable  the  data  subject  to  seek  additional 
information  with  the  exporters  and  to  lodge  a  claim  with  his/her  competent  supervisory 
authority.  This  clause  could  also  address  some  of  the  difficulties  an  individual  may  face  in 
demonstrating  his/her  standing  (locus  standi)  before  third  country  courts  to  challenge  the 
public authorities’ access to his/her data.  
-  National  regulations  and  policies  may  prevent  this  notification  to  the  data  subject.  The 
exporter and importer could nonetheless commit to informing the data subject as soon as the 
restrictions on the disclosure of data are lifted and to make its best efforts to obtain the waiver 
of  the  prohibition  to  disclose.  At  a  minimum,  the  exporter  or  the  competent  supervisory 
authority  could  notify  the  data  subject  of  the  suspension  or  termination  of  the  transfer  of 
his/her  personal  data  due  to  the  importer’s  inability  to  comply  with  its  contractual 
commitments as a result of its receipt of a request for access.  

*** 

120.  The contract could commit the exporter and importer to assist the data subject in exercising his/her 

rights in the third country jurisdiction through ad hoc redress mechanisms and legal counselling. 

121.  Conditions for effectiveness 

-  National  regulations  and  policies  may  impose  conditions  that  may  undermine  the 
effectiveness of the ad hoc redress mechanisms provided for.  
- Legal counselling could be helpful for the data subject, especially considering how complex 
and  costly  it can  be  for  a data  subject  to  understand  a  third  country’s  legal  system  and to 
exercise legal actions from abroad, potentially in a foreign language. However, this clause will 
always offer a limited additional protection, as providing assistance and legal counselling to 
data subjects cannot in itself remedy a third country’s legal order failure to provide for a level 
of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  within  the  EU.  This  contractual 
measure will necessarily need to be complementary to other supplementary measures. 

This  supplementary  measure  would  only  be  effective  provided  that  the  law  of  the  third  country 
provides for redress before its national courts or that an ad hoc redress mechanism exist. In any case, 
this would however not be an efficient supplementary measure against surveillance measures if no 
redress mechanism exists. 

 

 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

34 

 

Organisational measures 

122.  Additional  organisational  measures  may  consist  of  internal  policies,  organisational  methods,  and 
standards controllers and processors could apply to themselves and impose on the importers of data 
in  third  countries.  They  may  contribute  to  ensuring  consistency  in  the  protection  of  personal  data 
during  the  full  cycle  of  the  processing.  Organisational  measures  may  also  improve  the  exporters’ 
awareness of risk of and attempts to gain access to the data in third countries, and their capacity to 
react to them. Selecting and implementing one or several of these measures will not necessarily and 
systematically  ensure  that  your  transfer  meets  the  essential  equivalence  standard  that  EU  law 
requires. Depending on the specific circumstances of the transfer and the assessment performed on 
the legislation of the third country, organisational measures are needed to complement contractual 
and/or technical measures, in order to ensure a level of protection of the personal data essentially 
equivalent to that guaranteed within the EU.  

123.  The assessment of the most suitable measures has to be done on a case by cases basis keeping in mind 
the need for controllers and processors to respect the accountability principle. Below, the EDPB lists 
some  examples  of  organisational  measures  that  exporters  can  implement,  albeit  the  list  is  not 
exhaustive and other measures may also be appropriate : 

Internal policies for governance of transfers especially with groups of enterprises  

124.  Adoption of  adequate  internal policies with  clear  allocation  of  responsibilities  for  data  transfers, 
reporting channels and standard operating procedures for cases of covert or official requests from 
public authorities to access the data. Especially in case of transfers among groups  of enterprises, 
these policies may include, among others, the appointment of a specific team, which should be based 
within the EEA, composed by experts on IT, data protection and privacy laws, to deal with requests 
that involve personal data transferred from the EU; the notification to the senior legal and corporate 
management  and  to  the  data  exporter  upon  receipt  of  such  requests;  the  procedural  steps  to 
challenge  disproportionate  or  unlawful  requests  and  the  provision  of  transparent  information  to 
data subjects. 

125.  Development of specific training procedures for personnel in charge of managing requests for access 
to  personal  data  from  public  authorities,  which  should  be  periodically  updated  to  reflect  new 
legislative  and  jurisprudential  developments  in  the  third  country  and  in  the  EEA.  The  training 
procedures should include the requirements of EU law as to access by public authorities to personal 
data, in particular as following from Article 52 (1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Awareness of 
personnel  should  be  raised  in  particular  by  means  of  assessment  of  practical  examples  of  public 
authorities’  data  access  requests  and  by  applying  the  standard  following  from  Article  52(1)  of  the 
Charter of Fundamental Rights to such practical examples. Such training should take into account the 
particular situation of the data importer, e.g. legislation and regulations of the third country to which 
the data importer is subject to, and should be developed where possible in cooperation with the data 
exporter. 

126.  Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  These  policies  may  only  be  envisaged  for  those  cases  where  the  request  from  public 
authorities in the third country is compatible with EU law.87 When the request is incompatible, 

                                                           
87 See Case C-362/14 (« Schrems I »), par. 94; C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 168, 174, 175 and 176. 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

35 

 

these policies would not suffice to ensure an equivalent level of protection of the personal 
data and, as said above, transfers must be stopped or appropriate supplementary measures 
to avoid the access must be put in place. 

Transparency and accountability measures 

127.  Document  and  record  the  requests  for  access  received  from  public  authorities  and  the  response 
provided, alongside the legal reasoning and the actors involved (e.g. if the exporter has been notified 
and its reply, the assessment of the team in charge of dealing with such requests, etc.). These records 
should be made available to the data exporter, who should in turn provide them to the data subjects 
concerned where required. 

128.  Conditions for effectiveness: 

- National legislation in the third country may prevent disclosure of the requests or substantial 
information thereof and therefore render this practice ineffective. The data importer should 
inform the exporter of its inability to provide such documents and records, thus offering the 
exporter the option to suspend the transfers if such inability would lead to a decrease of the 
level of protection.  

*** 

129.  Regular  publication  of  transparency  reports  or  summaries  regarding  governmental  requests  for 

access to data and the kind of reply provided, insofar publication is allowed by local law.  

130.  Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  The  information  provided  should  be  relevant,  clear  and  as  detailed  as  possible.  National 
legislation in the third country may prevent disclosure of detailed information. In those cases, 
the data importer should employ its best efforts to publish statistical information or similar 
type of aggregated information.  

Organisation methods and data minimisation measures 

131.  Already  existing  organisational  requirements  under  the  accountability  principle,  such  as  the 
adoption of strict and granular data access and confidentiality policies and best practices, based on 
a  strict  need-to-know  principle,  monitored  with  regular  audits  and  enforced  through  disciplinary 
measures may also be useful measures in a transfer context. Data minimisation should be considered 
in this regard, in order to limit the exposure of personal data to unauthorised access. For example, 
in some cases it might not be necessary to transfer certain data (e.g. in case of remote access to EEA 
data, such as in support cases, when restricted access is granted instead of full access; or when the 
provision of a service only requires the transfer of a limited set of data, and not an entire database).  

132.  Conditions for effectiveness: 

- Regular audits and strong disciplinary measures should be in place in order to monitor and 
enforce compliance with the data minimisation measures also in the transfer context.  

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

36 

 

- The data exporter shall perform an assessment of the personal data in its possession before 
the transfer takes place, in order to identify those sets of data that are not necessary for the 
purposes of the transfer and, therefore, won’t be shared with the data importer.  
- Data minimisation measures should be accompanied with technical measures as to ensure 
that data are not subject to unauthorised access. For example, the implementation of secure 
multiparty computation mechanisms and the spread of encrypted datasets among different 
trusted  entities  can  prevent  by  design  that  any  unilateral  access  lead  to  the  disclosure  of 
identifiable data. 

*** 

133.  Development of best practices to appropriately and timely involve and provide access to information 
to the data protection officer, if existent, and to the legal and internal auditing services on matters 
related to international transfers of personal data transfers.  

134.  Conditions for effectiveness: 

-  The  data  protection  officer,  if  existent,  and  the  legal  and  internal  auditing  team  shall  be 
provided with all the relevant information prior to the transfer, and shall be consulted on the 
necessity of the transfer and the additional safeguards, if any.  
- Relevant information should include, for example, the assessment on the necessity of the 
transfer of the specific personal data, an overview of the laws of the third country applicable 
and the safeguards the importer committed to implement.  

Adoption of standards and best practices 

135.  Adoption  of  strict  data  security  and  data  privacy  policies,  based  on  EU  certification  or  codes  of 
conducts or  on  international  standards  (e.g. ISO  norms)  and best  practices  (e.g.  ENISA) with due 
regard to the state of the art, in accordance with the risk of the categories of data processed and the 
likelihood of attempts from public authorities to access it.  

Others 

136.  Adoption  and  regular  review  of  internal  policies  to  assess  the  suitability  of  the  implemented 
complementary  measures  and  identify  and  implement  additional  or  alternative  solutions  when 
necessary, to ensure that an equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed within the EU of the 
personal data transferred is maintained. 

*** 

137.  Commitments from the data importer to not engage in any onward transfer of the personal data 
within the same or other third countries, or suspend ongoing transfers, when an equivalent level of 
protection of the personal data to that afforded within the EU cannot be guaranteed in the third 
country.88 

                                                           
88 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraphs 135 and 137.  

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

37 

 

ANNEX  3:  POSSIBLE  SOURCES  OF  INFORMATION  TO  ASSESS  A  THIRD 
COUNTRY  

138.  Your  data  importer  should  be  in  a  position  to  provide  you  with  relevant  sources  and  information 
relating to the third country in which it is established and the laws applicable to it. You may also refer 
to several sources of information, such as the ones listed below non-exhaustively:  

in 

to 

referred 

(ECtHR)89  as 

- Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) and of the European Court of 
Human  Rights 
the  European  Essential  Guarantees 
recommendations;90  
-  Adequacy decisions in the  country of destination if the  transfer relies on a different legal 
basis;91 
-  Resolutions  and  reports  from  intergovernmental  organisations,  such  as  the  Council  of 
Europe,92  other  regional  bodies93;  and  UN  bodies  and  agencies  (e.g.  UN  Human  Rights 
Council,94 Human Rights Committee95); 
-  National case-law or decisions taken by independent  judicial or administrative  authorities 
competent on data privacy and data protection of third countries; 
-  Reports  from  academic  institutions,  and  civil  society  organizations  (e.g.  NGOs  and  trade 
associations).  

 

                                                           
89 See factsheet of the ECtHR jurisprudence on mass surveillance: 
 
https://www.echr.coe.int/Documents/FS_Mass_surveillance_ENG.pdf 
90 https://www.coe.int/en/web/data-protection/reports-studies-and-opinions  
91 C-311/18 (Schrems II), paragraph 141; see adequacy decisions in   https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-
topic/data-protection/international-dimension-data-protection/adequacy-decisions_en  
92 https://www.coe.int/en/web/data-protection/reports-studies-and-opinions  
93  See  for 
https://www.oas.org/en/iachr/reports/country.asp.   
94 See https://www.ohchr.org/EN/HRBodies/UPR/Pages/Documentation.aspx  
95 see: 
https://tbinternet.ohchr.org/_layouts/15/treatybodyexternal/TBSearch.aspx?Lang=en&TreatyID=8&DocTypeID
=5  

instance  country  reports  of  the  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human  Rights  (IACHR), 

 

Adopted - version for public consultations 

 

38 

