 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Opinion 1/2022 on the draft decision of the Luxembourg 

Supervisory Authority regarding the GDPR – CARPA 

certification criteria 

 

Adopted on 1 February 2022

Adopted  

 

1 

 

Table of contents 
1  

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ............................................................................................ 4 

2 

ASSESSMENT............................................................................................................... 5 

2.1 General remarks ........................................................................................................ 5 

2.2 Scope of the certification mechanism and Target of Evaluation (ToE) ........................... 6 

2.3 Procedure to determine a Target of Evaluation (ToE) .................................................. 6 

2.4 Certification criteria ................................................................................................... 7 

2.5 Lawfulness of Processing ........................................................................................... 8 

2.6 Principles of Article 5 ................................................................................................10 

2.7 General Obligations for Controllers and Processors ....................................................10 

2.7.1. Obligation applicable to controllers and processor  .............................................11 

2.7.2. Obligations applicable to the controllers  ............................................................12 

2.7.3. Obligations applicable to processors ..................................................................13 

2.8 Rights of data subjects  ..............................................................................................13 

2.9 Risks for  the  rights and  freedoms  of  natural  persons and technical  and organisational 
measures guaranteeing protection .................................................................................14 

 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................................................15 

FINAL REMARKS .........................................................................................................18 

 

3 

4 

 
 

Adopted  

 

2 

 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to  Article  63, Article  64(1)(c)  and  Article 42  of  the  Regulation 2016/679/EU  of  the 
European Parliament and of  the Council  of 27 April 2016 on  the protection of  natural persons  with 
regard to  the processing  of  personal  data and  on  the free  movement of  such  data, and  repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to  the European  Economic Area (hereinafter “EEA”) Agreement and  in  particular to 
Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as  amended  by  the  Decision  of  the  EEA  joint  Committee  No 
154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 64(1)(c) of the GDPR and Articles 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure. 
 
Whereas: 
 

(1)  Member  States, supervisory  authorities, the  European  Data Protection Board  (hereinafter 
“the EDPB”) and the European Commission  shall encourage, in particular at Union level, the 
establishment  of  data  protection  certification  mechanisms  (hereinafter  “certification 
mechanisms”)  and  of  data protection  seals  and  marks,  for  the  purpose  of  demonstrating 
compliance with the GDPR of processing operations by controllers and processors, taking into 
account the specific  needs  of  micro, small and  medium-sized  enterprises2. In  addition, the 
establishment of  certifications can enhance transparency and  allow data subjects  to assess 
the level of data protection of relevant products and services3. 

(2)  The certification criteria form an integral part of any certification mechanism. Consequently,  
the GDPR requires the approval of national certification criteria of a certification mechanism 
by  the competent supervisory  authority (Articles 42(5)  and 43(2)(b)  of the GDPR), or in the 
case of a European Data Protection Seal, by the EDPB (Articles 42(5) and 70(1)(o) of the GDPR).  
(3)  When a supervisory  authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends  to approve a certification pursuant 
to Article 42(5) of the GDPR, the main role of the EDPB is to ensure the consistent application 
of the GDPR, through the consistency mechanism referred to in Articles 63, 64 and 65 of the 
GDPR. In this framework, according to Article 64(1)(c) of the GDPR, the EDPB is required to 
issue an Opinion on the SA’s draft decision approving the certification criteria. 

(4)  This  Opinion  aims  to  ensure  the consistent  application of  the GDPR, including  by  the SAs, 
controllers and processors  in  the light of the core elements which certification mechanisms 
have to develop.  In particular, the EDPB assessment  is carried out on  the basis “Guidelines 
1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 
43 of the Regulation” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”) and their Addendum providing “Guidance 
on  certification  criteria  assessment”  (hereinafter  the  “Addendum”),  for  which  the  public 
consultation period expired on 26 May 2021. 

                                                             
1 References to “Member States” made throughout this Opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 Article 42(1) of the GDPR. 
3 Recital 100 of the GDPR. 

Adopted  

 

3 

 

(5)  Accordingly, the EDPB acknowledges that each certification mechanism should  be addressed 
individually  and is without prejudice to the assessment of any other certification mechanism. 
(6)  Certification  mechanisms  should  enable  controllers  and  processors  to  demonstrate 
compliance  with  the GDPR; therefore, the  certification criteria should  properly  reflect the 
requirements and principles concerning the protection of personal data laid down in the GDPR 
and contribute to its consistent application. 

(7)  At the same time, the certification criteria should  take into account and, where appropriate, 

be inter-operable with other standards, such as ISO standards, and certification practices.  

(8)  As  a  result,  certifications  should  add  value  to  an  organisation  by  helping  to  implement 
standardized and specified organisational and technical measures that demonstrably facilitate 
and  enhance  processing  operation  compliance,  taking  account  of  sector-specific 
requirements. 

(9)  The  EDPB  welcomes  the  efforts  made  by  scheme  owners  to  elaborate  certification 
mechanisms,  which  are  practical  and  potentially  cost-effective  tools  to  ensure  greater 
consistency with the GDPR and foster the right to privacy and data protection of data subjects 
by increasing transparency.  

(10)The EDPB recalls that certifications are voluntary accountability tools, and that the adherence 
to a certification mechanism does not reduce the responsibility  of  controllers or processors 
for compliance with the GDPR or prevent SAs from exercising their tasks and powers pursuant 
to the GDPR and the relevant national laws.  

(11)The Opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted, pursuant to Article 64(1)(c) of GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of  Procedure, within eight weeks from the first working 
day after the Chair and the competent SA have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision 
of  the  Chair,  this  period  may  be  extended  by  a further  six  weeks  taking  into  account the 
complexity of the subject matter. 

(12)The EDBP Opinion focusses  on  the certification criteria. In case the EDPB requires high level 
information  on  the  evaluation  methods  in  order  to  be  able  to  thoroughly  assess  the 
auditability of the draft certification criteria in the context of  its Opinion  thereof, the latter 
does not encompass any kind of approval of such evaluation methods. 
 

 
HAS ADOPTED  THE  FOLLOWING OPINION: 

1   SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

In  accordance  with  Article  42(5)  of  the  GDPR  and  the  Guidelines,  the  “GDPR-CARPA 
certification criteria” (hereinafter the “draft certification criteria” or “certification criteria”) 
was drafted by the Luxemburg Supervisory  Authority (hereinafter the “LU SA”).  

2.  The LU SA  has submitted its draft decision  approving the GDPR-CARPA certification criteria, 
and requested an Opinion  of the EDPB pursuant to Article 64(1)(c) GDPR on 1 October 2021. 
The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 28 October 2021. 

The present certification is not a certification according to article 46(2)(f) of the GDPR meant 
for  international  transfers  of  personal  data  and  therefore  does  not  provide  appropriate 
safeguards  within  the  framework  of  transfers  of  personal  data  to  third  countries  or 

Adopted  

 

4 

 

international organisations  under the terms referred to in  letter (f) of  Article 46(2). Indeed, 
any transfer of personal data to a third country or to an international organisation, shall take 
place only if the provisions  of Chapter V of the GDPR are respected. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

3.  The Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 2 to the 
Guidelines  (hereinafter “Annex”) and its Addendum. Where this Opinion  remains silent on a 
specific  section of the LU SA’s draft certification criteria, it should  be read as the Board not 
having any comments and not asking the LU SA to take further action. 

2.1 General remarks  

4.  The Board notes that the terms used throughout the document can sometimes be confusing. 
An example regarding the consistency  of  the terminology can be  found  under  section I -13, 
where  there is  a  reference to  “persons  concerned”, which  should  be  replaced  with “data 
subjects”. Therefore, the Board encourages the LU SA to ensure the consistency  of the term 
used throughout the draft certification criteria.  

5.  The Board encourages  to clarify the meaning of some of the terms used in the certification 
criteria, such  as  the  entity’s  “authorized” management that  is  required  to  supervise  the 
implementation of the mechanism supported by its DPO for international data transfers so as 
to ensure their compliance with the GDPR (see criteria II-a-18 and III-13, but also I-1) and the 
“formal assessment” required to be performed by the entity as it is mentioned several times 
throughout the draft criteria (e.g. section II-a-10).  

6.  The draft criteria state in several sections that “the entity has taken into account the formal 
opinion of its DPO” (e.g. sections II-a-18 and III-13).” The Board encourages the LU SA to clarify, 
in  a note  in  the  draft  criteria, that the  DPO, even  if  he/she  has  a  significant  role  for  the 
compliance monitoring of the entity’s processing activities according to Article 39 of the GDPR, 
the latter should  not be the one  responsible  to assess  the implementation of the measures 
designed to ensure such compliance. 

7.  The  Board notes  that the  certification criteria submitted  by  the LU SA  do  not contain  any 
information on the planned evaluation methods. According to the LU SA, these can be derived 
(in  part) from the International Standard on  Assurance Engagements (ISAE  3000 standard), 
which  is  part of  the certification process  as it is  used  in  connection  with the accreditation. 
Based  on  the  information  provided  by  the  SA,  this  standard  has  been  developed  by  the 
International  Auditing  and  Assurance  Standards  Board  (IAASB)  and  deals  with  assurance 
engagements  other  than  audits  or  reviews  of  historical  financial  information.  The  EDPB 
encourages  the  LU  SA  to  clarify  that  the  ISAE  3000  standard  is  not  of  relevance  for  the 
certification criteria as it is not part of it, but it is relevant for the certification process. In this 
regard the  EDPB recalls  what already  recommended  in  the  context of  its  Opinion  on  the 
accreditation requirements for LU SA’s certification bodies. 4 

                                                             
4 See EDPB Opinion 5/2020 on the draft decision of the competent supervisory authority of Luxemburg 
regarding the approval of the requirements for accreditation of a certification body pursuant to Article 43(3) 
(GDPR), adopted on 29 January, para. 8.  
 

Adopted  

 

5 

 

 

 

2.2 Scope of the certification mechanism and Target of Evaluation (ToE) 

8.  The GDPR-CARPA certification scheme is a general scheme in that does not focus on a specific 
sector or type of processing. According to the information provided by LU SA, the main object 
of the certification scope are the data protection responsibilities  of the controller / processor 
(accountability principle).  For this  reason, the GDPR-CARPA includes  requirements focusing 
on the data protection governance in  the organization surrounding  the processing  activities 
included the TOE in addition to specific criteria concerning directly those processing activities. 
However, the LU SA established some scope limitations / exclusions to clarify which (type of) 
processing  activities  can /  cannot be  certified  under  GDPR-CARPA certification scheme. In 
particular, GDPR-CARPA is not suitable for: 

certifying personal data processing specifically targeting minors under 16 years old; 
certifying processing activities in the context of a joint controllership; 
certifying processing activities in the context of article 10 GDPR; 

 
 
 
  entities that have not officially designated a DPO (article 37 GDPR).  
In this regard, the Board notes that the GDPR CARPA scheme does  not mention the exclusion of 
processing activities falling under Articles 85 to 89 GDPR. However, the Board understands that 
relevant aspects of GDPR compliance with regard to the processing operations falling under those 
Articles are meant to be covered by  the certification criteria. For example,  section II-a-9 of  the 
draft  certification  criteria  concerns  the  processing  of  special  categories  of  personal  data for 
archiving purposes  in  the public  interest, scientific  or historical  research purposes  or  statistical 
purposes,  but  it  does  not  mention  the  suitable  and  specific  measures  to  safeguard  the 
fundamental  rights  and  interests  of  data  subjects  required  under  Article  89(1)  of  the  GDPR. 
Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  the  LU  SA  to  include  specific  criteria  covering  processing 
activities under Articles 85 to 89 of the GDPR.  

Furthermore, the Board recommends the LU SA  to include  that an analysis of  the relevant laws 
shall  be performed  by the entity which  demonstrates that specific  and suitable measures  have 
been  put  in  place  in  order  to  respect  the  fundamental  rights  and  interests  of  data  subjects 
pursuant to Article 89 of the GDPR. 

 

2.3 Procedure to determine a Target of Evaluation (ToE) 

9.  According to the information  provided by  the LU SA, the TOE for the certification has to be 
setup  following  the  “Planning  and  Performing  the  Engagement”  requirements  of  the 
International  Standard  on  Assurance  Engagements (ISAE  standard),  which  is  part  of  the 
certification process.  However, as stated in the EDPB Guidelines  1/2018, how the ToE has to 
be defined should  be sufficiently described in the certification criteria themselves (see Annex 
2 to the EDPB Guidelines  1/2018, section  2.f). This  seems not to be  the case for the GDPR- 
CARPA certification scheme which in this  regard relies on  the ISAE standard, while provides 
guidance  to  define  the  TOE  in  the  certification  program.  In  this  context,  the  Board 
recommends  the  LU  SA  to  include  in  the beginning  of  the  draft certification  criteria, in  a 
devoted section, sufficient information with regard to the criteria on how the ToE is defined.  

Adopted  

 

6 

 

 

2.4 Certification criteria 

10. The Board notes that in a large number of the criteria it is not clear what needs to be audited 
and by whom. On the contrary, the Board, underlines that this should  be made clear from the 
criteria themselves. In  particular, the  tool  of  “self-assessment”  by  the  applicant  is  used  in 
many criteria. In this regard, the Board notes that the LU SA does not always define in the 
criteria the elements upon which the self-assessment  should  be carried out by the applicant 
so as to make clear what is expected to be demonstrated by the applicant and audited by the 
certification body.  For example, sections  II-a-I and II-a-4 about identification of  a valid legal 
basis and data processing based on contract respectively do not specify the factors that should 
be taken into account by the applicant when carrying out the assessment on the identification 
of the legal basis, such as the necessity of the processing in relation to the purposes pursued 
and the appropriateness of the legal basis considering the processing activities, depending on 
the nature, context, scope  and  purposes  of  the processing.  The same applies  to the other 
criteria concerning the rest of the legal grounds (i-e. II-a-3 and II-a-5-8).  

In that respect, it should  be avoided that the certification body takes over the assessment of 
the  applicant  without  checking  or  at least  critically questioning  it  with  regard to  the  said 
factors to be specified in the criteria. This applies in particular to the criteria listed below:  

  Section II-a-I and II-a-3 to II-a-8 with regard to the above-mentioned factors regarding 

the assessment on the identification of the legal basis of the data processing. 

  Section I-14 regarding data breaches in relation to the factors to be taken into account 

for the required assessment. 

  Similarly,  in  section  I-15  regarding the  notification  of  data  breaches  towards  the 
controller,  with  reference  to  the  factors  to  be  considered  in  the  context  of  the 
assessment of those breaches. 

  Section II-a-11 regarding the rights to restriction of the processing, with respect to the 
factors to  be taken  into  account, to  establish  the  impossibility  or  disproportionate 
character of  the  communication  to  the  recipients  to  whom  personal  have  been 
disclosed. 

  Similarly, in section II-a-14 regarding the factors to be taken into account to determine 
if the provision  of information  to data subjects in  accordance with Article 14 of the 
GDPR proves impossible or would involve  a disproportionate effort. 

  Section II-a-18 regarding third country transfers, see the specific recommendation in 

paragraph 22 of this Opinion. 

  Section  II-b-2 regarding purpose  compatibility,  see the specific  recommendation  in 

paragraph 23 of this Opinion. 

  Section II-c-2 regarding alternative means, with respect to the factors be taken into 
account when assessing  whether there is  an impossibility  to reach the purposes  by 
implementing a less intrusive process (e.g. amount of data collected, retention period, 
aim of processing, technology available). 

Adopted  

 

7 

 

  Section II-d-3 regarding the right to rectification, in relation to the factors on which 
the assessment of impossibility  or disproportionate character of the communication 
to the recipients to whom personal have been disclosed  should be based. 

  Section II-e-1 regarding the defined retention period omits to provide the factors that 
should  be taken into account in case the retention period  cannot be  established  in 
light of the applicable legal requirements (e.g. purpose(s)  pursued). 

  Section II-e-3 regarding the right to erasure, with reference to the factors to consider 
in  the  assessment  of  the  impossibility  or  disproportionate  character  of  the 
communication to the recipients to whom personal have been disclosed.  

  Section  II-f-2  regarding  the  risk  analysis,  see  the  specific  recommendation  in 

paragraph 52. 

  Section II-f-9 regarding the assessment of sufficiency, see the specific encouragement 

in paragraph 35.  

  Section  III-7  regarding  the  risk  treatment  see  the  specific  recommendation  in 

paragraph 55.   

  Section 

III-3  regarding  the  transfers  to  third  countries,  see  the  specific 

recommendation in paragraph 22. 

Therefore, the  Board  recommends  the  LU  SA  to  amend  the  above-mentioned  criteria to 
provide  the factors that shall  be taken into  account by  the applicant when carrying out the 
relevant assessments so as to also clarify what will be checked by the certification body.  

2.5 Lawfulness of Processing 

11. The Board notes that under section II-a-I, the LU SA makes reference to a “valid legal basis”. 
However, the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  LU  SA  should  take into  account  how  the 
applicability  of  the  legal  basis  is  demonstrated  and  its  appropriateness,  where  relevant,  
considering the processing  activities, depending on the nature, context, scope and purposes 
of the processing. The Board recommends the LU SA to modify this criterion accordingly. 5  

12. Under section II-a-3 it is  mentioned that “the entity has analysed the necessity of  consent”. 
The  Board recommends  the LU  SA  to  take into  account that the  entity  demonstrates the 
appropriateness  of  consent  as  the  legal  ground  for  the  processing  in  the  individual  case, 
instead of  its necessity  so to have this  criterion in  line with Recital 43 of  the GDPR and the 
EDPB Guidelines on consent under the GDPR.6 

13. Under section II-a -3, regarding “freely given” consent the Board encourages the LU SA to add 

a reference to Recital 32 for completeness.  

                                                             
5See Recital 43 of the GDPR as well as the EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under the GDPR available at 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_202005_consent_en.pdf 
6 See for instance paragraphs 2, 3, 16, 17, 31 and 91 of the EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under the 
GDPR available at 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_202005_consent_en.pdf  
 

Adopted  

 

8 

 

14. The Board takes note of the requirement of informed and unambiguous consent in  section II-
a-3. However, the Board considers  that more information is needed thereof. More precisely, 
the Board  recommends  that the  LU SA  adds  in  its  draft  certification criteria the  minimum 
requirements which have to necessarily be met so that consent can be considered informed 
and unambiguous  and that the criteria bring sufficient  added value for the compliance with 
the GDPR of the certified entities. 

15. Under section II-a-8, the draft certification criteria state: “The legislator provides by law for 
the legal basis for public  authorities to process personal data”. Consequently, this legal basis 
should  not apply to the processing by public authorities in the performance of their tasks”. In 
this regard, the EDPB encourages the LU SA to replace the word “should” with “shall”.  

16. The  Board  notes  that  in  section  II-a-9, regarding the  processing  of  special  categories  of 
personal  data, the  reference  to  appropriate  safeguards,  when  Article  9(2)  of  the  GDPR 
provides  so,  is missing.  For example, with respect to the processing, which  is  necessary for 
reasons of public interest (Article 9(2)(i) of the GDPR) in the area of public health, the suitable 
and specific measures provided for by Union or Member State law to safeguard the rights and 
freedoms  of  data subjects,  in  particular professional  secrecy  must  be  in  place. The  Board 
recommends  the LU SA  to take into account such  safeguards, where necessary throughout 
this section and modify these criteria accordingly.  

17. More  in  detail, with  respect to  section  II-a-9 referring to  Article 9(2)(b)  of  the  GDPR, it  is 
mentioned that “the entity has identified the applicable legal basis and formally assessed  its 
applicability  with regard to this  processing  activity”. The EDPB recalls that the controller  is 
authorised  for  such  processing  by  Union  or  Member  State law  or  a  collective  agreement 
pursuant  to  Member State law  providing  for  appropriate safeguards  for  the  fundamental 
rights and interests of the data subject. The EDPB considers that, without taking into account 
all the elements of compliance provided  by this provision, such as the safeguards adhered to 
by the controller, the certification body’s checks and controls would not be concrete enough, 
considering  that  the  criterion  where  the  assessment  relied  on  is  insufficiently  detailed. 
Therefore, the Board recommends the LU SA to modify  this criterion accordingly so  to allow 
the certification body’s assessment to be exhaustive.  

18. Similarly, concerning the “legitimate activities by a foundation, association or any other non-
for-profit body [...]” the Board recommends to take into account the appropriate safeguards 
required by Article 9(2)(d) of the GDPR.  

19. Along the same lines, with respect to Article 9(2)(g) of the GDPR regarding the “substantial 
public  interest” the mere reference in the criteria to the identified  Union  or Member States 
law(s)  is  not  sufficient.  The  “specific  measures  to  safeguard  the  fundamental  rights  and 
interests of the data subject” should  also be taken into account and ensured to exist in this 
context. Therefore, the Board recommends to consider such elements in the draft certification 
criteria to provide sufficient added value for the certified entities in terms of compliance with 
the GDPR.  

20. Similarly,  under  the  same  section,  the  Board  notes  that there  is  no  reference  to  further 
conditions,  including limitations  regarding the processing of  genetic data, biometric data or 
data  concerning  health.  The  Board  recommends  that  the  LU  SA  modifies  this  criterion 
accordingly so as to refer to the elements of compliance  with the GDPR pursuant to Article 
9(4), where relevant. 

Adopted  

 

9 

 

21. With regard to section II-a-18 concerning the transfer of  personal data to third country, the 
Board recommends that the LU SA includes  a reference to Articles 44-45 of the GDPR in the 
“Label” field of the draft certification criteria along with the relevant recitals of the GDPR.  

22. In  addition  to  the  assessment  mentioned  in  criterion  II-a-18,  the  entity  should  also 
substantiate the choice made regarding the data transfer mechanism, pursuant to Chapter V 
of the GDPR. 7 Therefore, the Board recommends that the LU SA takes into account in the draft 
criteria  the  need  to  substantiate  the  choice  made  with  respect  to  the  data  transfer 
mechanism. 

2.6 Principles of Article 5  

23. Regarding the purpose  of compatibility  under section II-b-2, the Board recommends  the LU 
SA to add more details in relation to the elements on which the compatibility assessment of 
further purposes  must be based, at least the ones established by Article 6(4) of the GDPR, as 
the criteria for the compatibility test listed therein are missing. Regarding section II-c-1, the 
Board encourages the LU SA to take into account  the amount, type and nature of the data 
collected  and  processed  among  the  factors  to  consider  as  likely  to  influence  the 
implementation of the principle of data minimisation.  

24. With regard to section II-c-2 “, the Board encourages the LU SA to clarify in the context of “less 

intrusive means” what needs to be demonstrated.  

25. Regarding the principle of data accuracy in section II-d-2, the draft certification criteria state 
that “The entity has defined and implemented a procedure to verify on a regular basis and at 
least annually the personal data it received, either by directly contacting the data subject, or 
by  contacting  the  source  from  which  it  received  the  data.  The  entity  documents  this 
verification of data accuracy and has implemented a procedure to update data if necessary” 
The Board encourages the LU SA not to limit the personal data referred to in these criteria to 
the ones the entity “received”, but also refer to the data it holds in general (e.g. those inferred 
or  created from  the data received or  otherwise  produced  by  the entity). Furthermore, for 
reasons of completeness, in the passage “to update data if necessary”, the Board encourages 
the LU SA to add that data will also be corrected or deleted where necessary.  

26. Regarding the deletion or anonymisation of data in section II-e-2, the draft certification criteria 
list certain use cases in which the applicant is required to effectively ensure these operations. 
In particular, the second and third bullet  point mention: “where personal  data is not, or no 
longer necessary for the purpose of the processing; when it no longer needs the data; or”. The 
Boards notes that another use case might be where the SA orders the erasure of personal data 
under Article 58(2)(g) of the GDPR. In any case, the Board encourages the LU SA to clarify the 
difference between the two use cases described in these two bullet points or otherwise delete 
one of  them, as well as to take into account in  the draft certification criteria other possible 
use cases, such as the one of Article 58(2)(g).  

2.7 General Obligations for Controllers and Processors 

 

                                                             
7 In the context of this assessment, the relevant CJEU judgements and the EDPB Guidelines and recommendations should 
be taken into account.  

Adopted  

 

10 

 

2.7.1. Obligation applicable to controllers and processor 

27. Under section  I-11 of the draft certification criteria, regarding the DPO´s competences, the 
Board notes that if the DPO does not have minimum three years of professional  experience, 
he/she either (i)”needs to have two years of legal experience and has followed comprehensive 
trainings on data protection” or (ii) “The DPO has access to legal assistance internally, or via a 
non-limiting service contract with an external firm, covering all GDPR subjects”. The Board is 
of the opinion  that the second requirement should  not stand alone for the assessment of the 
DPO’s qualification. This means that the DPO should not be considered qualified only because 
he/she “has access to legal assistance internally, or via a non-limiting service contract with an 
external firm, covering all  GDPR subjects”. This  could  be an additional  requirement for the 
evaluation of DPO’s qualifications, but not a stand-alone one. Since the scheme heavily relies 
on the DPO, it is important that he/she has the appropriate expertise. In addition, the required 
trainings  on  data  protection  should  be  recent  and  up  to  date.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends that the LU SA amends this section accordingly.  

28. Under section I-12 of the draft criteria (last point) the LU SA refers to cases where conflicts of 
interest  of  the  DPO  have  been  identified.  The  Board  welcomes  this  inclusion,  it  however 
considers that the notification to the entity’s highest management and the documentation of 
the conflicts of interest are not enough. It is essential that this conflict of interest is resolved 
according to an established  procedure. Therefore, the Board recommends  the LU SA to add 
this element under this section.  

29. The Board notes that, under section I-13 of the draft criteria, the LU SA refers to the obligation 
of  the  DPO to  “inform  and  advise  the entity  and  its  employees,  who  carry out  processing 
activities, of their obligations pursuant to the GDPR and to other Union or Member State data 
protection  provisions  [...]”. The LU  SA  clarified  that this  does  not  refer  to data protection 
provisions  of  other  Member  States,  but  to  provisions  of  national  laws  and  regulations. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the LU SA to modify this reference accordingly in the criteria. 

30. The Board notes that sections  I-14 and I-15 of  the draft certification criteria are devoted to 
data breaches: the first one is designed to be applicable to controllers and the second one to 
processors.  In  particular,  these  sections  require  the  implementation  of  “technical  and 
organisational measures to identify, manage and notify personal data breaches” by the entity 
seeking for certification. Those measures have to cover various aspects, including the degree 
of involvement of the DPO. However, in this regard, both criteria seem to be contradictory as, 
on the one hand, they require that “the DPO should always be informed of each data breach”, 
while, on the other hand, they refer to a “formal procedure” in place defining “when the DPO 
needs to be informed and what this information shall include”. Indeed, it is not clear if these 
two requirements refer to different factual contexts. Therefore, the Board recommends the 
LU SA to  explain if  it this is  the case and to solve  this contradiction between both sections 
anyhow. 

31. In section I-14, with regard to the notification to the SA, the Board recommends the LU SA to 

delete the term “if applicable” from the sixth bullet point.  

32. Section  I-15  of  the  draft  certification  criteria, which  applies  to  processors,  envisages  the 
implementation  of  “technical  and  organisational  measures  to  detect, manage  and  notify 
personal  data breaches  towards  the  contractual partner(s)  and  /  or  controller(s)  within  a 
timeframe allowing the controller to notify the supervisory  authority within 72 hours”. With 

Adopted  

 

11 

 

regard to the envisaged timing, the Board notes  that Article 33(2) of the GD PR requires the 
processor to notify the personal data breaches to the controller “without undue delay” after 
becoming aware of it. Therefore, the Board recommends the LU SA to add the term “without 
undue delay” in relation to the processor’s obligation to this section. 

2.7.2. Obligations applicable to the controllers 

33.  The Board notes that section II-f-7 mentions that “The entity reviews the DPIA on a regular 
basis and at least annually or when significant changes impacting the DPIA occur. The entity 
takes into account the formal opinion of its DPO”. The Board recommends the LU SA to bring 
this section in  line with Article 35(9) of the GDPR, so as to consider the opportunity to seek 
the views  of  data subjects  or  their representatives (without  prejudice  to the protection  of 
commercial or public interests or the security of processing operations). 

34. In relation to the DPIA review in section  II-f-7, it is  mentioned that this shall be carried out, 
among  others,  “when  significant  changes  impacting  the  DPIA  occur”.  In  this  regard, the 
criterion requires the entity to implement “a documented method ensuring that it took into 
account all  factors  likely  to  influence  the DPIA” and  that “such  factors  can be  external or 
internal and include  among others changes in the  applicable regulatory framework […]”. In 
relation  to  those  changes,  the  Board  recommends  the  LU  SA  to  also  add  a  reference to 
changes of the risk represented by processing operations as envisaged by Article 35(11) of the 
GDPR. 

35. Regarding section  II-f-9 of  the  draft certification criteria, titled  “assessment  of  sufficiency” 
which concerns  the use of  processors  by  the applicant, the Board encourages the LU SA to 
take into account the expert knowledge, reliability and resources that the processor needs to 
have before engaging it, in line with Recital 81 of the GDPR. Furthermore, with regard to the 
last bulled point of this section, the Board recommends the LU SA to make clear that the audits 
the  controller  is  required  to  perform,  according  to  sections  II-f-5  and  II-f-6  of  the  draft 
certification criteria, can be conducted towards the processor. 

36. In section II-f-10 regarding a contract / legal act under Union or Member State law, the Board 
recommends the LU SA  to include a reference to the elements that must  be set out in  this 
contract/legal act under Article 28(3) of the GDPR, such as the subject matter and duration of 
the  processing,  the  nature and  purpose  of  the  processing,  the  type  of  personal  data and 
categories of data subjects and the obligations and rights of the controller.  

37. Moreover, when the draft certification criteria mention that there has to be a contract / legal 
act  under  Union  or  Member  State  law  in  place,  the  Board  recommends  to  specify  that, 
according to Article 28(9) of the GDPR, this should  be in writing (including in electronic form) 
so to be checked by the certification body. 

38. With regard to the sixth bullet point  of the same criteria, stating: “The processor assists the 
entity in ensuring compliance with his obligations taking into account the nature of processing 
and the information available to the processor”, the Board encourages to add a reference to 
the entity’s legal obligations which result from Articles 32 to 36 of the GDPR. 

39. The criteria in  section  II-f-12 refer to  “due diligences  procedures”  in  addition  to  audit and 
monitoring by the applicant towards the engaged processors. The Board notes that the term 
"due diligence" can be very broad and take on different meanings, depending on the content 
and  structure  of  the  underlying  contract,  which  in  turn  places  special  data  protection 

Adopted  

 

12 

 

requirements  on  the  respective  audits.  Therefore,  since  the  risk  of  non-compliant 
implementation is  not insignificant and the use of this term can lead to ambiguity about the 
necessary extent of audits, the Board encourages the LU SA to clarify the term “due diligence 
procedure” in the draft criteria. 

2.7.3. Obligations applicable to processors  

40. With regard to Section III of the draft certification criteria, concerning the principles relating 
to processing of personal data by the processor or the sub-processor, the Board recommends 
the LU SA to add in section III-1 that the contract or legal act between processor and controller 
or sub-processor  and processor should  be in writing (including in electronic form) in line with 
Article 28(9) of the GDPR. 

41. When  the  same draft certification criteria mention  that the entity  “assists  the contractual 
partner and the controller in ensuring compliance with his obligations taking into account the 
nature of processing and the information available to the entity, the Board encourages the LU 
SA to add an explicit reference to the sub-processor’s  obligations to assist the processor and 
the similar obligation of  the processor to assist the controller with regard to the obligations 
of the latter under  Articles 32-36 of the GDPR. 

42. With regard to section III-3 of the draft criteria, concerning the limitation of the processing to 
the documented instructions received by the controller or the contractual partner, the Board 
recommends  the  LU  SA  to  add  a  reference to  international  transfers  in  line  with  Article 
28(3)(a) of the GDPR. 

43. Under section III-11 of the draft certification criteria regarding the assessment of sufficiency,  
the Board notes that there should  be a reference to the processor’s  obligation to assess the 
sub-processors  it intends to engage.8 The Board encourages the LU SA to modify this criterion 
accordingly.  

44. With  regard  to  section  III-3  of  the  draft  certification  criteria  concerning  the  transfer  of 
personal  data  to  third  countries,  the  Board  recommends  to  adjust  this  criterion  to  the 
recommendation set out above as regards section II-a-18. 

2.8 Rights of data subjects   

45. Under  section I-9  of  the draft certification criteria “facilitate the exercise of  data subjects’ 
rights”, the Board takes note of two different scenarios of impossibility of the entity to comply 
with the  request set  by  controller. The Board understands  that the first  scenario  refers to 
situations that the entity cannot comply  within the deadline set by the controller, while the 
second  refers to an absolute impossibility  to comply. However, the distinction  between the 
two scenarios is not clear in the criteria, thus the Board encourages the LU SA to clarify this.  

46. With respect to the exercise of the data subject rights, the Board welcomes, in relation to the 
fees  that  can  be  charged by  the controller,  in  case of  manifestly  unfounded  or  excessive 
requests from the data subject, the obligation of the entity to document “how it justifies the 
amount of the charged fees”. This obligation is found in section II-a-10 (right to object) section 

                                                             
8  Similar obligations are provided in the EDPB Opinion on Article 28 GDPR SCCs, clause 7.6. regarding the authorisation to 
use a sub-processor “In order to make the assessment and the decision whether to authorise sub -contracting, the data 
processor shall provide the data controller with all necessary information on the intended sub -processor, including on their 
locations, the processing activities they will be carrying out and on any safeguards and measures to be implemented." 

Adopted  

 

13 

 

II-a-11  (right  to  restriction  of  the  processing),  section  II-a-12  (right  not  to  be  subject  to 
automated individual  decision-making),  section  II-a-16 (right  to access)  and  section  II-a-17 
(right  to  data portability).  In  this  regard, the  Board  notes  that the  elements  to  take  into 
account to consider reasonable the amount of the charged fees are specified in Article 12(5)(a) 
of the GDPR and should  not be left to the discretion of the entity seeking for certification or 
the certification body. Therefore, the Board recommends the LU SA to include a reference to 
these elements in this section (i.e. the administrative cost of providing the communication or 
taking the action requested by the data subject).   

47. As regards the right of data subject not to be subject to automated decision-making including 
profiling, the Board notes that “profiling” is included  in  the title of the relevant Section, II-a-
12. However, it is  missing  from  the main  text of  the criterion (first  paragraph). The  Board 
encourages this addition.  

48. Moreover,  data  subjects’  right  of  access  is  provided  under  section  II-a-16  of  the  draft 
certification  criteria.  However,  the  draft  misses  to  include  the  list  of  information  to  be 
provided to the data subject, pursuant to Article 15(1). Therefore, the Board encourages, for 
consistency with the rest of the draft certification criteria devoted to data subjects’ rights, to 
also  refer  here  to  all  the  obligations  provided  under  Article  15(1)  of  the  GDPR (i.e.  the 
information that the controller should provide to data subjects when they exercise their right 
of access). 

49. Within  the same Section, the Board notes that the draft certification criteria do not include 
that the first time the entity provides a copy to the data subject, this should be free of charge 
and that for  any further copies  requested, the entity may charge reasonable fees based on 
administrative costs. The Board recommends that the LU SA includes this aspect in the criteria. 

50. Similarly, the reference to the modalities on how to provide the information requested by the 
data subject, is missing. The Board recommends to add a clarification thereof that when the 
data subject  makes the  request by  electronic means, and  unless  otherwise requested, the 
information must be provided in a commonly used electronic form. 

51. Under the section II-a-17 regarding the right to data portability, an important element to be 
assessed is missing. In particular, pursuant to Article 20(4) of the GDPR, there is need to assess 
whether the data subjects’ right to data portability adversely affects the rights and freedoms 
of others. The Board recommends this addition, as this element also need to be assessed  by 
the certification body in the context of the right to data portability. 

 

2.9 Risks for the rights and freedoms of natural persons and technical and 

organisational measures guaranteeing protection   

52.  Regarding the sections about the risk  analysis, in II-f-2 and III-6 it is not made clear enough 
which risks are being addressed, namely those of the data subjects. The Board recommends 
the LU SA to include, among the risks mentioned in this requirement, those to the rights and 
freedoms of the data subjects. In addition, the Board recommends that the LU SA adds more 
information regarding the different types of risks with regard to the data subjects concerned. 

Adopted  

 

14 

 

53. In  line  with  the  previous  recommendations  concerning  the  risk  analysis,  the  Board 
recommends the LU SA to also add, in section II-f-3 and III-7, that the risk treatment takes into 
account the different types of risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects concerned. 

54. Furthermore,  it  is  mentioned  that  the  entity  should  consider  at  least  the  technical  and 
organisational measures of  the access control  policy. The Board  recommends  the LU SA to 
bring this in line with Article 32(4) of the GDPR by adding the entity’s obligation to take steps 
to  ensure  that  any  natural  or  legal  person  acting  under  its  authority,  who  has  access  to 
personal data, does not process them except on instructions from the entity, unless he or she 
is required to do so under Union or Member State law. 

55. The  draft  certification  criteria  also  state  in  II-f-3  and  III-7  that  the  entity  reviews  the 
effectiveness of the risk treatment plan at least on an annual basis or when changes impacting 
the  risk  evaluation  occur  and  adapts  the  risk  treatment  plan  if  necessary.  The  Board 
encourages the LU SA to make clear that there are processes in place to measure and ensure 
the  effectiveness  of  the  said  plan,  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  certification  criteria are self-
explanatory and that the certification body could know what it needs to check from the sole 
formulation of the criteria.  

56. Regarding the implementation of organisational and technical measures the draft certification 
criteria state in section II-f-4 and III-8 that on a daily basis, reports on controls performed and 
security incidents related to the processing activities in scope shall be provided at least to the 
DPO and the entity’s management. The Board encourages the LU SA to add that these reports 
should be provided also to the relevant persons within the organisation who are involved  - so 
not only to the DPO and the entity’s management. 

3   CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

57. By way of conclusion,  the EDPB considers  that the GDPR – CARPA certification criteria may 
lead to an inconsistent application of the GDPR and the following changes need to be made 
in order to fulfill the requirements imposed by Article 42 of the GDPR in light of the Guidelines 
and the Addendum: 

58. regarding the  “scope  of  the  certification mechanism  and  target of  evaluation  (TOE)”, the 

Board recommends that the LU SA:  

 

 

1) includes specific criteria covering processing activities under Articles 85 to 89 of the 

 
GDPR. 

 
2) includes  an analysis  of  the relevant laws which  shall  be performed  by the entity  
demonstrating that specific and suitable measures have been put in place in order to respect 
the fundamental rights and interests of data subjects pursuant to Article 89 of the GDPR  

59. regarding the “procedure to determine a target of evaluation (TOE)” the Board recommends 

that the LU SA:  

1)  includes  in the beginning of  the draft certification criteria, in a devoted section, 

 
sufficient information with regard to the criteria on how the ToE is defined .  

60. regarding the “certification criteria” the Board recommends that the LU SA:  

Adopted  

 

15 

 

1) amends the criteria listed in paragraph 10 of this Opinion  by providing the factors 
 
that shall be taken into account by the applicant when carrying out the relevant assessments 
so as to also clarify what will be checked by the certification body. 

61. regarding the “lawfulness of the processing” the Board recommends that the LU SA:  

 
1) modifies section II-a-I which refers to a “valid legal basis” so as to take into account 
how  the  applicability  of  the  legal  basis  is  demonstrated  and  its  appropriateness,  where 
relevant, considering the processing activities, depending on the nature, context, scope and 
purposes of the processing. 

 
2)  in relation to  section II-a-3, takes into  account that the entity demonstrates the 
“appropriateness” of consent  as legal ground for the processing  in the individual  case, so to 
have this criterion in  line with Recital 43 of the GDPR and the 05/2020 EDPB Guidelines on 
consent under the GDPR. 

 
3) in section II-a-3 adds, the minimum requirements which have to necessarily be met 
so  that  consent  can  be  considered  informed  and  unambiguous  and  that  the  certification 
criteria bring sufficient added value for the GDPR compliance of the certified entities. 

 
4)   takes into account, where necessary, throughout  section II-a-9, the appropriate 
safeguards, as provided  by Article 9(2) of  the GDPR with regard to the processing of special 
categories of data, and modify the related criteria accordingly . 

 
5)  modifies  the  criterion under  section  II-a-9 which  refers to  Article  9(2)(b)  of  the 
GDPR, so as to take into account that the controller must be authorised for such processing 
by Union or Member State law or a collective agreement pursuant to the Member State law 
providing  for  appropriate safeguards  for  the  fundamental  rights and  interests  of  the  data 
subject, in order to allow the certification’s body assessment to be exhaustive.  

 
(6), takes into consideration, in section II-a-9, the appropriate safeguards, as provided 
in Article 9(2)(d) of the GDPR regarding the “legitimate activities by a foundation, association 
or any other non-for-profit  body [...].  

 
(7) takes into account, in section II-a-9, the specific measures taken to safeguard the 
fundamental rights and interests of  the data subject with regards to the “substantial public 
interest” in the context of Article 9(2)(g) of the GDPR.  

(8)  modifies,  in  section II-a-9, the criterion so  as  to refer to the further conditions,  
 
including limitations regarding the processing of genetic, biometric and data regarding health, 
set out in national law pursuant to Article 9(4) of the GDPR, where relevant.  

(9) includes a reference to Article 44-45 of the GDPR in the “Label” field of section II-

 
a-18 of the draft certification criteria along with the relevant recitals of the GDPR. 

(11)  requires, in  section  II-a-18, that the entity substantiate  the choice  made with 

 
regard to the data transfer mechanisms, pursuant to Chapter V of the GDPR.  

62. regarding the “principles of Article 5” the Board recommends that the LU SA:  

 
(1) adds, under section II-b-2, more details in relation to the elements on which the 
compatibility assessment of further purposes must be based, at least the ones established by 
Article 6(4) of the GDPR. 

Adopted  

 

16 

 

63. regarding the “general obligations for controllers and processors” the Board recommends that 

the LU SA:  

 
(1) modifies  the criterion under section I-11, regarding the DPO competences, so to 
make sure that the (ii) requirement does not stand alone, but is an additional requirement for 
the assessment of the DPO’s qualification  and that the required trainings on data protection 
are recent and up to date.  

(2) adds, under section I-12, that when a conflict of interest has been identified, it will 

 
be resolved according to an established procedure.  

 
(3) clarifies, in sections I-14 and I-15, the degree of DPO’s involvement when, on the 
one  hand, the draft criteria require that “the DPO should  always be informed  of each data 
breach”, while, on the other hand, they refer to a “formal procedure” in place defining “when 
the DPO needs to be informed and what this information shall include”. 

(4)   deletes the term “if  applicable” from the sixth  bullet point  of  section I-14 with 

 
regard to the notification of data breaches to the SA .  

(5) adds to section I-15 the term “without undue delay” in relation to the processor’s 
 
obligation to notify  the personal data breach to the controller” after becoming aware of it, 
pursuant to Article 33(2) of the GDPR.  

(6) modifies,  in relation to the DPIA review, section II-f-7 to bring it line with Article 
 
35(9) of the GDPR, so as to consider the opportunity to seek the views of data subjects or their 
representatives (without prejudice to the protection of commercial or public interests or the 
security of processing operations).  

 
(7)  modifies,  with  regards to  factors likely  to  influence  the  DPIA,   section  II-f-7 to 
include a reference to the changes of the risk represented by processing operations envisaged 
by Article 35(11) of the GDPR.  

 
(8) modifies  the last bullet point  of section II-f-9, to make clear that the audits that 
the controller  is  required  to perform  according to the sections  II-f-5 and II-f-6 of  the  draft 
certification criteria can be conducted towards a processor. 

 
(9) adds, under section II-f-10, a reference to the elements that must be set out in the 
contract/legal act under Article 28(3) of the GDPR, such as the subject matter and duration of 
the  processing,  the  nature and  purpose  of  the  processing,  the  type  of  personal  data and 
categories of data subjects and the obligations and rights of the controller.  

 
(10) specifies, under section II-f-10 and III-1, that when there has to be a contract/legal 
act under Union  or Member State law in place, according to Article 28(9) of  the GDPR, this 
should  be in writing so as to be checked by the certification body.  

 
(11) under section III-3, regarding the limitation of the processing to the documented 
instructions  received  by  the controller  or the  contractual partner,   includes  a reference to 
international transfers in line with Article 28(3)(a) of the GDPR.  

(12)  adjusts  section  III-3 of  the  draft  certification criteria to  the  recommendation 

 
provided for section II-a-18.  

64. regarding the “rights of data subjects” the Board recommends that the LU SA:  

Adopted  

 

17 

 

(1)  includes  a reference to  the elements  to  be  taken into  account to  consider  the 
 
reasonable  amount  of  charged  fees  provided  in  Article  12(5)(a)  of  the  GDPR  in  case  of 
manifestly unfounded or excessive requests from the data subject (i.e. the administrative cost 
of providing the communication or taking the action requested by the data subject).  

 
(2) includes, under section II-a-16, that the first time the entity provides a copy to the 
data subject, this  should  be free of  charge and that for  any further copies,  the entity may 
charge reasonable fee based on administrative costs. 

 

 
(3)  clarifies  in  the  same section  that when  the  data subject  makes the  request  by 
electronic means, and  unless  otherwise  requested, the information  must  be  provided  in  a 
commonly used electronic form.  

(4) includes in section II-a-17 that there is need to assess whether the data subjects’ 

 
right to data portability adversely affects the rights and freedoms of others. 

65. regarding the “risks for the rights and freedoms of  natural persons”  and the “technical and 

organisational measures guaranteeing protection” the Board recommends that the LU SA:  

(1) includes, among the risks  mentioned in sections II-f-2 and III-6, those to the rights 
 
and freedoms of the data subjects and adds information regarding the different types of risks 
with respect to the data subjects concerned.  

(2) adds, under sections II-f-3 and III-7, that the risk treatment takes into account the 

 
different types of risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects concerned.  

 

 
(3) aligns the requirement of the entity to consider at least the technical and 
organisational measures of the access control policy with Article 32(4) of the GDPR by adding  
the relevant obligation.  

66. Finally, in  line with the Guidelines  the EDPB also recalls that, in case of amendments of the 
GDPR-CARPA certification criteria involving substantial changes9, the LU SA will have to submit 
the modified version to the EDPB in accordance with Articles 42(5) and 43(2)(b) of the GDPR. 

FINAL REMARKS 

4 
 

67. This Opinion is addressed to the LU SA and will be made public pursuant to Article 64(5)(b) of 

the GDPR. 

68. According to Article 64(7) and (8) of the GDPR, the LU SA shall  communicate its response to 
this Opinion  to the Chair by electronic means within two weeks after receiving the Opinion, 
whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. Within the same period, it shall  provide 
the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to follow the Opinion of the Board, it 
shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this Opinion, in whole 
or in part. 

                                                             
9 See section 9 of the Addendum to Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in 
accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of the Regulation providing “Guidance on certification criteria assessment” 
for which the public consultation period expired on 26 May 2021. 

Adopted  

 

18 

 

69. Pursuant to Article 70(1)(y) GDPR, the LU SA shall communicate the final decision to the EDPB 
for  inclusion  in  the  register  of  decisions  which  have  been  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism. 

70. The EDPB recalls that, pursuant to Article 43(6) of the GDPR, the LU SA shall make public the 
GDPR-CARPA certification criteria in an easily accessible form, and transmit them to the Board 
for inclusion  in the public  register of certification mechanisms  and data protection seals, as 
per Article 42(8) of the GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 
The Chair 
 
(Andrea Jelinek) 
 

Adopted  

 

19 

