Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of May 10, 2023
                        
                            05/10/2023
                          
                      


data protection



press release


Everything you want to know about data protection, simply explained The youth portal youngdata.de with a new website After the relaunch, the youth portal of the data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments www.youngdata.de has a completely new design. The website has been fundamentally revised and adapted to today's user behavior of young people. In particular, it has been optimized for quick mobile access via smartphone. "With youngdata.de, we want to give young people in particular, but also all other interested parties, the opportunity to find out about data protection issues," says Dr. H. c. Marit Hansen, State Commissioner for Data Protection in Schleswig-Holstein and this year's Chairwoman of the Conference of Independent Federal and State Data Protection Authorities (DSK). In addition to classic topics such as security, tracking or the right to one's own image, this also includes information on trends in social networks, cyberbullying or hate speech. With regard to new developments such as artificial intelligence (AI) and tools such as ChatGPT, the youth portal conveys to schoolchildren what opportunities and risks are associated with them and what role their personal data plays in this. Anyone who wants to use the Internet actively and creatively can find out a lot about the advantages and disadvantages of the services and applications here. The young people also have the opportunity to find out more about data protection offers in their area on the website. Hansen adds: “With the youth portal, we want to ensure that young people can move about independently in our digitized society. That is why the offers and content on youngdata.de are constantly being further developed.” Contact: Chair of the Data Protection Conference 2023 Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98 24103 Kiel Telephone: 0431 988 1289 E-mail: dsk2023(at)datenschutzzentrum.dehttps:// www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de
return

Associated files

Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of May 10, 2023

(PDF document)
455KB
