 

 

 
 
 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 June 09, 2021

 Tracking of adolescents: radio play “Spione wie

we. Tracking in the family” now online

 

LfDI Brink: "On children's rights and the protection of children and

Informing young people is an important task for us.

This very nice radio play Spies like us. tracking in the

Family” encourages reflection on what is tracking young

can mean people.”

 

Parents are increasingly tracking their children with digital aids and

can always know where they are. The promise

of these digital aids is often, so to increase the safety of children,

because in an emergency they can be located and they can be helped quickly

will.

 

Numerous trackers for monitoring adolescents are available to parents

to disposal. Legal guardians are responsible for their wards

responsible. You alone decide how to meet your responsibilities

will. But what does it mean to permanently track your child?

 

The state commissioner for data protection and the

Freedom of Information

on. Not with

a handout

to

 

- 2 -

legislation, but with a radio play. It's supposed to be young people

and adults encourage themselves with questions of tracking

to deal with. The state representative Brink also has in the radio play

took on a speaking role.

 

The almost 16-minute radio play “Spione wie wir. tracking in the family”

is about a caring father bringing his daughter to the new

school year with a tracking watch: out of concern for their safety. Yet

The daughter soon realizes – spoiler alert – that it might be quite

it would be good if she too knew where her father is always. Because when she him

If she can't reach him immediately by phone, she worries about his

Health. Very soon the family asks the question,

how much they actually need to know about each other, how much security and

freedom she desires.

 

The radio play is available on the website of the state commissioner

ready

(here

it's okay

to the

Radio play:

https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/mediathek). Produced

Has

it

the

Hochschule für Medien Stuttgart on behalf of the state representative. That

Radio play is part of the LfDI theme series on "Children's Rights and Protection of

children". Most recently, the fairy tale project “Rumpelstiltskin” was published for

Children to raise awareness of handling personal data.

 

Further information:

Radio play "Spies like us. Tracking in the family” (https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/mediathek)

Idea: Martina Strifler, culture officer at the LfDI Ba-Wü

Story and production: Stuttgart Media University (HdM) commissioned

of the LfDI

Duration: 15:57 mins

 

speak:

Prof. Tobias Keber / HdM Stuttgart

Marco Seelig / HdM Stuttgart

Michael Graeter / HdM Stuttgart

Rebecca Beiter / HdM Stuttgart

dr Stefan Brink / LfDI Ba-Wü

 

