 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

Accreditation Requirements for 

Monitoring Bodies 

 

 
Information and Data Protection Commissioner 
Published on 17 January 2023 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

           Page 

 
CONTENTS 
 

 

INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................................. 2 
 
  ACCREDITATION REQUIREMENTS .................................................................................................. 3 
LEGAL STATUS ................................................................................................................................. 3 
 
3. 1 
TYPE OF ENTITY ....................................................................................................................... 3 
3. 2 
STANDING ............................................................................................................................... 4 
3. 3 ACCESS TO RESOURCES ................................................................................................................ 4 
3. 4 USE OF SUB-CONTRACTORS ......................................................................................................... 5 
INDEPENDENCE............................................................................................................................... 5 
4.1 
LEGAL AND DECISION-MAKING PROCEDURES ........................................................................ 6 
FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE ..................................................................................................... 7 
4.2 
ORGANISATIONAL INDEPENDENCE......................................................................................... 8 
4.3 
ACCOUNTABILITY .................................................................................................................... 9 
4.4 
4.5 
OTHER FUNCTIONS ............................................................................................................... 10 
  ABSENCE OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST ........................................................................................... 10 
EXPERTISE ..................................................................................................................................... 11 
 
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .......................................................................... 12 
 
7.1 
ELIGIBILITY OF CODE MEMBERS ........................................................................................... 13 
7.2  MONITORING OF COMPLIANCE ............................................................................................ 13 
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINTS HANDLING .................................................................................... 14 
 
  COMMUNICATION WITH THE COMPETENT SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY .................................... 15 
CODE REVIEW MECHANISM ..................................................................................................... 16 
 
REVOCATION OF A MONITORING BODY ................................................................................. 17 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

1 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 

  INTRODUCTION 

 
The General Data Protection Regulation 1 (the “GDPR” or the “Regulation”) stipulates that Member 
States, supervisory authorities, the European Data Protection Board (the “Board”) and the European 
Commission shall encourage the drawing-up of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper 
application of the Regulation, taking into account the peculiarity of the specific industries and the 
needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The main purpose  of codes of conduct is to 
translate generic data protection obligations into more sector-specific, voluntary rules to be followed 
by controllers and processors that operate in a particular industry (the “code members”). This is aimed 
at facilitating compliance with data protection law by code members which, by adhering to a code of 
conduct, commit to abide by a digestible set of rules which takes into account the peculiarity and 
challenges of the sector concerned. Codes of conduct may be prepared by an association and / or 
another body representing categories of code members, referred as code owner (the “code owner” 2). 
As  a  mandatory  requirement,  compliance  with  a  code  of  conduct  by  code  members  must  be 
monitored by an external or internal body having an appropriate level of expertise in relation to the 
subject-matter of the code. This entity is referred to as the monitoring body (the “monitoring body”3). 
The  capacity  of  a  monitoring  body  to  effectively  monitor  a  code  of  conduct  is  assessed  by  the 
competent  supervisory  authority 
in  the  context  of  a  formal  accreditation  process  (the 
“accreditation”4).  This  document  lays  down  the  accreditation  requirements  to  be  fulfilled  by  a 
monitoring body insofar as the Office of the Information and Data Protection Commissioner of Malta 
(the “IDPC”) acts as the competent supervisory authority. The requirements laid down within this 
document must have been attained by the monitoring body prior to the submission of an application 
for accreditation and must by maintained for the entire duration of the monitoring function. Should 
any of these requirements not have been fulfilled prior to the application, the monitoring body shall 
duly explain how such requirement will be met, and which actions are planned in that regard. An 
accredited  monitoring  body  must  report  to  the  supervisory  authority  without  undue  delay  any 
supervening event that may undermine its capacity to conduct its operations, or that may cause full 
or partial loss of any of the statutory requirements for accreditation.  

 

 

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural 
persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 
95/46/EC. 
2 In this document, “accreditation” shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of EDPB Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of 
Conduct and Monitoring Bodies under Regulation 2016/679, Version 2.0, 4 June 2019 (the “Guidelines”). 
3 Ibid. 
4 Ibid. 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

2 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 

  ACCREDITATION REQUIREMENTS 

Article 41 (2) of the GDPR contains a list of requirements which the proposed monitoring body must 
meet in order to gain accreditation. At the same time, the Guidelines provide practical guidance and 
interpretative assistance in relation to the application of Articles 40 and 41 of the GDPR. A body that 
intends to apply for accreditation must demonstrate to be in possession of the requirements laid down 
in  this  document  at  the  time  of  the  application.  The  application  for  accreditation,  as  well  as  any 
information annexed to the application, shall be in writing and shall be drafted in the Maltese or in 
the English language. It is remarked that it is not necessary to accredit a monitoring body if a code of 
conduct only applies to public authorities and bodies. Nonetheless, the implementation of effective 
mechanisms to monitor the code, such as audit requirements or other forms of structured monitoring, 
shall still be in place. Accreditation as a monitoring body is only possible in relation to the subject 
matter of one or more specific codes of conduct pursuant to Article 41 (1) of the GDPR. 

  LEGAL STATUS 

 
The  code  of  conduct  itself  needs  to  demonstrate  that  the  operation  of  the  code’s  monitoring 
mechanism is sustainable over time and covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring body 
being unable to perform the monitoring function. A monitoring body shall demonstrate that it can 
deliver the code of conduct’s monitoring mechanism over a suitable period of time. 

3. 1 

TYPE OF ENTITY 

The monitoring body shall comprise of either a legal or a natural person, for-profit or not-for-profit, 
which  must  be  established  in  the  EEA5.  The  monitoring  body  may  be  external  or  internal.  The 
requirements indicated herein shall apply to both external and internal proposed monitoring bodies, 
unless specified otherwise 6. An internal monitoring body may include a committee or a separate and 
independent  department within  the  code owner;  however, this may  not  be set  up  within  a code 
member.  The  internal  or  external  monitoring  body  shall  remain  responsible  to  demonstrate 
compliance with these accreditation requirements and to maintain such requirements for the entire 
duration of the monitoring function. The monitoring body must ensure that these requirements are 
fulfilled in an impartial and independent manner, and without any influence. 

5 European Economic Area, as established in the Agreement on the European Economic Area. 
6 Infra, section 4.1, first paragraph, letter (x); section 4.1, second paragraph, letters (i) to (vii); section 4.3, first paragraph, 
letter (iii); section 4.3 third paragraph, letters (i) to (iv); section 4.4, page 11; section 5, page 12. 

 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

3 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 

3. 2 

STANDING 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that it has appropriate standing to carry out its functions 
under Article 41(4) of the GDPR. In this respect, the monitoring body: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

shall have the legal capacity to sue and be sued; 

shall have the legal capability of being fined; 

shall  be  accountable  under  Article  5(2)  and  Article  24  of  the  GDPR  and  shall  be  subject  to  the 
enforcement action of supervisory authorities, which may include administrative fines, in case it fails 
to  deliver  its  monitoring  functions  and  to  take  appropriate  action  when  code  requirements  are 
infringed; and 
shall fulfil the requirements of financial standing, professional competence and shall have a decision-
making procedure in place which describes the roles of all parties in order to shield the monitoring 
body from any influence. 

 
The monitoring body shall exhibit compliance with the above requirements by providing evidence 
thereof. Such evidence, which depends on the structure and legal nature of the monitoring body, shall 
include, without limitations: 

documents certifying the full legal name, type of entity, registered address, registration number, date 
of formation, names of executive officers, certificates of incorporation and of good-standing; and 

evidence  that  the  monitoring  body  has  adequate  financial  resources  to  demonstrate  how 
administrative fines would be paid, so that the requirements of Article 83(4)(c) of the GDPR can be 
met. 

i. 

ii. 

 

3. 3 ACCESS TO RESOURCES 

 
The monitoring body has access to the necessary resources thus to fulfil its role and to deliver the 
code owner’s monitoring mechanism in a timely and efficient manner. In addition, the monitoring 
body shall be equipped with adequate work force and with technical and logistical assets to further 
strengthen  its  monitoring  responsibilities.  These  resources  shall  enable  the  monitoring  body  to 
perform its responsibilities in a complete and autonomous manner whilst remaining independent, 
impartial and free from any influence by the code owners and by the code members. Furthermore, 
the monitoring body shall demonstrate to have and to maintain over time the necessary financial 
means to operate and to meet its day-to-day running, whilst properly budgeting and planning such 
resources. The monitoring body shall be in a position to furnish evidence of the source of its financial 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

4 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 
means.  Financial  stability  and  access  to  resources  need  to  be  accompanied  with  the  necessary 
procedures to ensure the functioning of the code of conduct over time. 

3. 4 USE OF SUB-CONTRACTORS 

 
The monitoring body may farm out certain monitoring activities, which shall not include the decision-
making process, to other entities acting as sub-contractors. When doing so, the monitoring body must 
ensure to implement the appropriate safeguards to ensure that the appointed sub-contractors have 
a sufficient level of expertise, trustworthiness and accountability. The monitoring body shall remain 
responsible for compliance when it uses sub-contractors. On the other hand, sub-contractors which 
are engaged by the monitoring body are required to comply with their data protection obligations. 
When engaging a sub-contractor, the monitoring body shall make certain that: 

ultimate responsibilities that pertain to the monitoring body are not in any manner shifted to a sub-
contractor, and that the monitoring body remains liable towards all stakeholders in lieu of the sub-
contractor; 
the sub-contractor conforms to the same requirements which apply to the monitoring body, which 
include but are not limited to financial standing, professional competence and shall have a decision-
making procedure in place which describes the roles of all parties in order to shield the monitoring 
body from any influence; 
the relationship between the monitoring body and the sub-contractors is governed by a legally-binding 
and enforceable written agreement, which clearly stipulates the subject-matter, duration, nature and 
purpose of engagement, what personal data and which categories of data subjects are involved and 
disciplines the obligations and rights of the monitoring body to process the personal data in a secure 
manner.  The  agreement  shall  include  provisions  concerning  the  consequences  of  its  termination, 
which shall bind the sub-contractor to fulfil its related data protection obligations; 
it follows formally documented procedures to engage a sub-contractor, which regulate the tasks which 
are being sub-contracted, the conditions under which this may take place (i.e. independence, expertise 
and lack of conflicts), the approval process and the monitoring of sub-contractors; and 
documented procedures that establish the actions to be taken in case of conflict of interest between 
the monitoring body and the sub-contractors are in place. 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

 

  INDEPENDENCE 

 
The  monitoring  body  must  provide  for  and  demonstrate  impartiality  of  functions  from  the  code 
members  and  profession,  industry  or  sector  to  which  code  applies  in  a  manner  that  ensures  its 
independence. This shall be achieved by establishing a series of formal rules and procedures for the 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

5 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 
appointment, terms of reference and operation of the monitoring body. These rules and procedures 
shall ensure the complete autonomy of the monitoring body from any direct or indirect influence or 
pressure at any time. The independence of the monitoring body, which shall be upheld at any time, 
and not only during the decision-making process, shall be demonstrated in four areas, as detailed 
below: 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 

legal and decision-making procedures; 
financial; 
organisational, and 
accountability. 

 

4.1 LEGAL AND DECISION-MAKING PROCEDURES 

 
The  legal  structure  of  the  monitoring  body,  including  its  ownership,  and  its  decision-making 
procedures  must  shield  the  monitoring  body  from  any  external  or  internal  influence.  The 
independence  and  impartiality  of  such  decision-making  procedures  shall  be  demonstrated  by 
submitting relevant documents, which may include, without limitations: 

i. 
ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

articles of incorporation of the monitoring body and articles of incorporation of the code owner; 
organigram of the monitoring body and of the code owner;  
description of the decision-making process which indicates the roles and prerogatives of all parties 
involved in such process; 
formal  rules  for  appointment  and  documented  recruitment  processes  for  the  personnel  of  the 
monitoring body; 
independence in the designation of its personnel; 
evidence that the decision-making personnel of the monitoring body has no convergent interests with 
the  entities  subject  to  monitoring.  In  this  regard,  the  monitoring  body  must  bring  information 
concerning the activities (gainful or not) in which such personnel is engaged; 
exposure over the beneficial owners 7 of the monitoring body; 
information  on  the  duration  or  expiration  of  the  monitoring  body’s  functions.  The  duration  or 
expiration  of  the  mandate  of  the  monitoring  body  must  be  regulated  in  such  a  way  to  prevent 
overdependence on a renewal or fear of losing the appointment, to an extent that adversely affects 
the independence in carrying out the monitoring activities by the monitoring body. For example, tying 
the renewal of the mandate to the enforcement actions taken by the monitoring body over a period 
of time is not acceptable.  

7 “beneficial owner” shall have the same meaning as in article 3(6) of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015. 

 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

6 

 

ix. 

x. 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

evaluation and treatment of the risk to the monitoring body’s independence; and / or 
in the case of an internal monitoring body, detailed description of all operations of any committees, 
separate department or personnel that may be involved with the monitoring body. 

 
In case the monitoring body is internal, it is mandatory that the impartiality of the relationship with 
the pertaining entity (e.g. the code owner) is preserved. Hence, the internal monitoring body is bound 
to demonstrate that certain measures, such as those listed down below, have been implemented: 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 

vi. 

information barriers; 
separate reporting and separate operational structures;  
segregation of management functions; 
separate staff and management; 
separate accountability and function from other areas of the organisation; and 
that the monitoring body is able to act free from instructions and shall be protected from any sort of 
sanctions or interference (whether direct or indirect) as a consequence of the fulfilment of its tasks. 

 
In order to protect its integrity, the monitoring body must not provide any service to the code owner 
and to code members which would adversely affect its independence. Nevertheless, the provision of 
services  which  are  purely  administrative  or  organisational  assistance  or  support  activities  by  the 
monitoring body to the code owner and / or to the code members is not likely to constitute a conflict 
of interest 8. Furthermore, any decision made by the monitoring body shall not be subject to approval 
by any other organisation, including the code owner. Thus, no type of interference shall affect the 
monitoring body’s independent decision-making process. 

4.2  FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE 

 
The monitoring body must be financially independent and shall have access to adequate financial and 
other resources to fulfil its monitoring responsibilities, especially for the accreditation of a natural 
person. This means that it must be in a position to manage its  budget and to make autonomous 
decisions  insofar  as  the  expenditure  of  funds  to  carry  out  its  functions  is  concerned.  Such 
independence  must  be  sourced  from  stability  and  resources  channelled  to  the  operation  of  the 
monitoring activities and allocated to meet its liabilities. It is equally important that, as long as financial 
matters are concerned, the monitoring body is not subject to any external influence, in particular from 
the code owner and / or from the code members. In the event that the monitoring body obtains any 
kind of financial support from the latter (e.g. in case of code members paying an association fee), the 

8 See also infra, section 5. 

 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

7 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 
monitoring body must ensure that such source of funding does not adversely affect the independence 
of the its monitoring duties. It is remarked that the financial independence is not considered to be 
met in case the rules governing the financial support of the monitoring body do not prevent that a 
code  member,  who  is  under  investigation  by  the  same  monitoring  body,  can  stop  its  financial 
contributions to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body. The elements be 
taken into account in the assessment of the financial independence of the monitoring body include: 
 

the size and complexity of the code members (as monitored entities); 

the nature and scope of their activities (as the subject of the code); and 

the risk(s) associated with the processing operation(s). 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Financial independence may be demonstrated, inter alia, with: 

documented procedures regarding the management of budget and other resources; 

evidence  of  the  means  by  which  the  monitoring  body  obtains  the  necessary  funds  to  support  its 
monitoring activities; 
explanation  as  of  the  source  of  the  financial  support  obtained  to  demonstrate  that  it  does  not 
compromise the monitoring body’s independence; and / or 
documented evidence of a risk assessment conducted in order to implement internal procedures to 
avoid any liability claim and to calculate the necessary coverage of potential financial penalties (i.e. 
insurance and / or financial capital). 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

 

4.3 ORGANISATIONAL INDEPENDENCE 

 
The monitoring body shall be organised in a manner which empowers it to act independently from 
code  owners  and  from  the  code  members  whilst  performing  its  tasks  and  exercising  its  powers. 
Organisational independence can be ensured, for example, by means of information barriers between 
the  monitoring  body  and  the  code  owner  and  the  code  members,  separate  reporting  structures, 
separate  operational  and  personnel  management  functions,  and  /  or  by  using  different  logos  or 
names,  as  appropriate.  The  monitoring  body  remains  bound  to  demonstrate  such  organisational 
independence, for example by means of: 

i. 

ii. 

payroll system for its personnel which is segregated from the code owner and / or code members; 
the deployment of an analytical accounting systems, meaning an accounting system which would 
allow to separate the costs and revenues of reserved and competitive activities respectively with 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

8 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 

iii. 

different responsibility centres; and / or 
logical separation of data between the monitoring body and the code owner, in case of an internal 
monitoring body. This means that techniques, such as specific keys, should be used to ensure that 
the code owner cannot access the monitoring body’s data.  

 
In  addition,  the  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  to  have  appropriate  human  and  technical 
resources  to  effectively  perform  its  tasks.  The  monitoring  body  shall  have  an  adequate  and 
proportionate number of staff members, which could be demonstrated through: 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

the procedure to appoint the monitoring body personnel; 
the remuneration of the said personnel, as well as the duration of the personnel’s mandate; and 
contract or other formal agreement with the monitoring body. 

Furthermore,  the  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  that  such  personnel  is  conversant  with  the 
sector covered by the code concerned and familiar with the risks which may arise from the processing 
activities  addressed  by  the  same  code.  The monitoring  body  shall  be  responsible  and  shall  retain 
liability  for  its  decisions  regarding  the  monitoring  activities.  At  the  same  time,  it  shall  be  able  to 
safeguard its impartiality in issuing such decisions. When the monitoring body is internal to a code 
owner, there shall be separate personnel and management, accountability and function from other 
areas of the code owner, and the latter shall prove that a specific, separated budget is allocated to 
such  body  by  the  code  owner.  The  internal  monitoring  body  shall  therefore  provide  additional 
information that attest its independence and impartiality, which may include: 

documented evidence that the monitoring body has been set up only within a code owner; 
information barriers to shield the monitoring body’s independent performance; 
separate personnel; and / or 
distinct management roles. 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 

 

4.4  ACCOUNTABILITY 

 
By virtue of the principle of accountability, the monitoring body shall demonstrate compliance with 
data  protection  legislation  and  observe  the  principles  relating  to  processing  of  personal  data 
enshrined in the Regulation. The monitoring body shall act independently and shall remain liable for 
its own actions and decision. This independence can be evidenced, for example, by means of formal 
rules for appointment. In the case of an internal monitoring body, it must be ensured that the powers 
and the operation of any committees do not interfere with the decision-making process. In addition, 
an  internal  monitoring  body  shall  submit  evidence  to  demonstrate  that  its  committees  and  /  or 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

9 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 
personnel are free from any commercial, financial and any other form of pressure that might influence 
the  decision-making  process.  The  monitoring  body  is  required  to  provide  with  evidence  to 
demonstrate that it the abides by the accountability principle in respect of its decisions and actions, 
which may include: 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 

v. 

formal rules for appointment of its personnel; 
framework for the monitoring body personnel roles; 
reporting lines and decision-making processes; 
complete organigram; and / or 
policies  to  increase  awareness  amongst  its  personnel  about  the  governance  structures  and  the 
procedures in place (including training). 

 

4.5 OTHER FUNCTIONS 

 
The monitoring body may be set-up just for monitoring one or more specific codes and solely carry 
out such monitoring functions, or it may perform additional duties, such as for example consultation 
in  drafting  codes  of  conduct  and  promoting  data  protection  co-regulation.  In  the  event  that  the 
monitoring  body  discharges  other  functions,  it  must  ensure that  the  requirements  set  herein  are 
adhered to at all times and that the operations carried out in parallel are not in any manner in conflict 
with  the  code  monitoring  functions.  In  any  case,  the  independence  and  conflict  of  interest 
requirements shall be upheld. Should the monitoring body perform any function other than the code 
monitoring, it shall inform the supervisory authority accordingly at application stage. 

  ABSENCE OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

 
The monitoring body must have its own personnel and shall be able to exercise its tasks and duties in 
a manner which does not result in a conflict of interest, and to demonstrate the absence of such 
conflict  of  interest.  In  this  regard,  the  monitoring  body  must  refrain  from  any  action  which  is 
incompatible with its tasks and duties. The monitoring body must also ensure that it has the necessary 
safeguards are in place so that its personnel do not engage in any incompatible occupation, whether 
gainful or otherwise. The monitoring body must remain free from direct or indirect influence and shall 
neither  seek  nor  take  instructions  from  any  person,  organisation or  association.  To  fulfil  this,  the 
appointment process of the personnel of the monitoring body shall not be subject to direct or indirect 
external influence, and their duties shall only be subject to the scrutiny of the same monitoring body, 
which must act in an independent manner. For example, a conflict of interest subsists in situations 
where the monitoring body takes instructions directly or indirectly from the code owner, or from the 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

10 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 
code members. Conversely, particularly in the case of internal monitoring bodies, the provision of 
services which are purely administrative in nature, or organisational assistance or support activities 
by the monitoring body to the code owner and / or to the code members is not likely to pose a conflict 
of interest. The monitoring body must adopt a pro-active approach identifying any situation which is 
likely to result in a conflict of interest and it shall implement specific measures and procedures to 
avoid similar situations or, in case they are encountered, to resolve them. Such internal procedures 
may include: 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

iv. 

regular internal audits of which a section must be dedicated to the absence of conflict of interest; 
remediation plan in the event that a conflict of interest is encountered; 
possibility of opting-out by the auditors, or eviction clauses; and / or 
reflection  of  the  absence  of  conflict  of  interest  obligation  into  legally-binding  commitments  to  be 
undertaken by the personnel of the monitoring body (and by the personnel of the sub-contractor, as 
the case may be). Such commitments shall introduce the obligation to duly and promptly report to the 
monitoring body any situation likely to create a conflict of interest. 

 
A  monitoring  body  must  be  appropriately  protected  from  any  sort  of  sanctions  or  interference 
(whether  direct  or  indirect)  by  the  code  owner,  other  relevant  bodies  (bodies  who  represent 
categories of controllers or processors) or code members as a consequence of the fulfilment of its 
tasks. 

  EXPERTISE 

 

The monitoring body shall have an adequate level of expertise to carry out its role in an effective 
manner.  In  this  respect,  its  personnel  shall  possess  an  in-depth  understanding,  knowledge,  and 
experience on the sector of the code subject to monitoring. In order to demonstrate expertise of the 
staff on specific personal data processing, different interests involved and the risks of the processing 
activities addressed by the code should also be taken into account. As a minimum, the monitoring 
personnel shall: 

have satisfactory general expertise in data protection law. This must be demonstrated by means of 
relevant education and / or working experience, as furtherly detailed hereunder: 

a.  Audit 

i. 

The monitoring body must demonstrate that its personnel engaged in code monitoring 
audit  functions  have  experience  of  at  least  two  full  audits  and  to  have  received 
comprehensive  and  satisfactory  training  on  data  protection.  Such  expertise  may  be 
demonstrated  by  means  of  audit  reports  and  training  syllabus  and  completion 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

11 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

certificates; 
 

b.  Legal 

The monitoring body must demonstrate that its personnel engaged in legal  functions 
have accumulated at least two years of professional legal practice which a focus in data 
protection (e.g. consultancy, litigation, etc.). Such expertise may be demonstrated with 
employment  contracts  and  /  or  engagement  forms  (if  employed),  or  membership  to 
national bars / law societies (if self-employed); 
 

c.  Technical  

The technical expertise requirement only applies when this is necessary for the code at 
stake.  If  that  is  the  case,  the  monitoring  body  must  demonstrate  that  its  personnel 
engaged  in  technical  functions  have  received  detailed  training  about  frameworks  for 
information  system  security management.  Such  expertise  may  be  demonstrated with 
evidence of achievement of a related qualification at level 5 EQF 9 or higher. Technical 
auditors must have experience of at least two years of professional practice in the field 
of information system security. Such experience may be demonstrated by means of audit 
reports.  

ii. 

iii. 

have  demonstrated  expertise  on  specific  personal  data  processing  activities  which  are  the  subject 
matter of the code of conduct. This expertise may be demonstrated with evidence of consulting and / 
or advisory activities; and / or 
have experience and have received training in the field of auditing, monitoring, or quality assurance 
activities. These may be demonstrated respectively by means of proof of engagement and by training 
syllabus / completion certificates. 

 

 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

 
The monitoring body must demonstrate to have in place established procedures and structures which 
allow it to perform the following functions: 

assess the eligibility of controllers and processors concerned to apply the code; 

i. 
ii.  monitor compliance with the provisions of the code by code members; and 
iii. 

carry out reviews of the concerned code’s operation. 

 

 

9  See  Annex  II  to  Council  Recommendation  of  22  May  2017  on  the  European  Qualifications  Framework  for 
lifelong learning and repealing the recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 
2008 on the establishment of the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong learning (2017/C 189/03). 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

12 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 
The  monitoring  body  shall  remain  responsible  to  ensure  that  any  information  entered  into  its 
possession whilst carrying out its monitoring functions remains confidential unless it is required to 
disclose such information, for example by a judicial order, or it is exempt by law. This confidentiality 
obligation shall be reflected into binding legal commitments to be executed by the personnel of the 
monitoring body. In any event, the confidentiality obligation shall survive the applicability of the code 
and the functions of the monitoring body and of its personnel. 
 

7.1  ELIGIBILITY OF CODE MEMBERS 

 
The monitoring body must demonstrate to have comprehensive vetting procedures to adequately 
assess the eligibility of controllers and processors that apply for code membership. In this regard, the 
monitoring body shall, at application stage, present: 

a complete overview of the requirements to which controllers and processors which intend to apply 
for membership to a specific code are subject. These requirements must stipulate that the processing 
of personal data by such controllers and processors fall within the scope of the code concerned, and 
that they have, at the time of their membership application, the capacity to meet the provisions of the 
code they are applying for; and 
mechanisms  to  verify  the  requirements  above.  These  may  include  the  perusal  of  applying  code 
members’  corporate  governance  documents,  the  conduction  of  audits  on  the  controllers  and 
processors  concerned  and  /  or  any  other  tool  to  effectively  ensure  that  the  latter  have  sufficient 
capabilities and assets to comply with the rules laid down in the code. 

i. 

ii. 

 

7.2  MONITORING OF COMPLIANCE 

 
The monitoring body must demonstrate that it has a procedure for the investigation, identification 
and management of code member infringements to the code and additional controls to ensure that 
appropriate action is taken to remedy such infringements of the code. To achieve this, the monitoring 
body must be equipped with sufficient powers towards the code members. At the same time, by 
adhering  to  the  code,  the  code  members  must  accept  to  be  subject  to  such  powers  without 
reservations. The procedures and structures established by the monitoring body in order to monitor 
compliance  with  the  code  must  take  into  account  the  risk  raised  by  the  specific  data  processing 
operations governed by the code, the number of code members, any admissible complaint that has 
been received by the monitoring body and any other factor which is relevant to the code monitoring. 
The monitoring body shall have, as a minimum, the power to: 

i. 

request  from  a  code  member  any  information  that  the  monitoring  body  may  require  for  the 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

13 

 

ii. 
iii. 
iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

ix. 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

performance of its tasks; 
carry out unannounced audits and / or inspections on code members; 
instruct code members to fill-in and submit self-monitoring reports or questionnaires; 
carry out at least an annual inspection in the form of audits on code members; 
act upon the findings of the said audits and inspections and to take corrective action accordingly, as 
the case may be; 
investigate  complaints  lamenting  alleged  infringements  of  the  provisions  of  the  code  by  a  code 
member, as furtherly specified in section 7 below; 
give instructions to code members to bring their practices back into compliance with the provisions of 
the code; 
suspend or annul the membership of code members and / or to decide that code members which 
membership has been annulled are no longer entitled to adhere to the code, depending on the severity 
of the infringement; 
apply the corrective measures as defined in the code; and 
any other investigative and / or corrective power to enable the monitoring body to verify compliance 
with the code by the code members. 

 
These procedures could lead to the publication of monitoring information including audits, summary 
reports or periodic reporting of findings, which can be made available to the code owner and / or to 
the code member, as they case may be. 

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINTS HANDLING 

 
The  code  must  grant  data  subjects  with  the  right  to  file  complaints  on  alleged  infringements  of 
provisions of the code with the monitoring body. The monitoring body must have in place effective 
procedures and structures to handle such complaints in an impartial and transparent manner. When 
handling complaints, the monitoring body must ensure that: 

It is organized in a manner that a dedicated and segregated section of the monitoring body oversees 
complaints. When this not possible, for example in case the monitoring body is a natural person, a 
justification shall be brought forward; 
it observes the principle of natural justice 10 and it upholds the right to be heard; 
the complaint-handling process is publicly available. If necessary, the monitoring body should publish 
guidance to ensure that the process is understandable by data subjects; 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

10 General, two-fold legal concept which main components are the notions of audi alteram partem and nemo iudex in causa 
sua. 

 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

14 

 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

suitable corrective measures are taken on controllers and processors when an infringement of the 
code provisions is detected, and that such measures are effective, proportionate and dissuasive and 
avoid future recurring; 
decisions on complaints are published at least in the form of summaries or statistical data; and 
where required and depending on the circumstances of the case, it informs the relevant stakeholders, 
such as code members, the code owner and the supervisory authorities about the measures taken and 
of the reason for the decision. In the case of a transnational code, the monitoring body should also 
inform the identified Lead Supervisory Authority 11 accordingly. 

 
The complaint-handling process must include, as a minimum: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

the procedure for the receipt, validation, track, investigation and decision of complaints; 

the high-level requirements for lodging complaints, including the minimum content of a complaint; 

the timing of the complaint-handling process. The process shall dictate that a complainant shall be 
notified on the progress or outcome of the complaint at the latest within three months from the date 
of receipt of the complaint; 
the investigative and corrective powers of the monitoring body, which shall include, for instance, the 
power to suspend or exclude a controller or processor from the code when it acts outside the terms 
of the code; 
the duty for the code members under investigation to provide relevant information to the monitoring 
body; 
that  the  decisions  taken  by  the  monitoring  body  on  a  complaint  are  subject  to  revision  and  the 
description of the revision procedure; 
that decisions on serious infringements of the code, that for instance determine the exclusion of a 
code member, are made available to the public; 
the list of sanctions set out in the code of conduct in cases of infringements of the code by a code 
member. These remedial actions and sanctions could include such measures ranging from training to 
issuing a warning, report to the Board of the member, a formal notice requiring the implementation 
of specific actions within a specified deadline, temporary suspension of the member from the code 
until  remedial  action  is  taken  to  the  definitive  exclusion  of  such  member  from  the  code.  These 
measures  could  be  publicised  by  the  monitoring  body,  especially  where  there  are  serious 
infringements of the code. 

 

  COMMUNICATION WITH THE COMPETENT SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 

 

11 As defined in Article 56(1) of the GDPR (“LSA”). 

 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

15 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 
The  monitoring  body shall  be  able  to  communicate effectively  and  promptly with  the  competent 
supervisory authority and with other supervisory authorities on matters related to the code subject 
to monitoring. In this respect, the monitoring body shall establish efficient reporting mechanisms and 
appoint a contact person and a back-up contact person to correspond with the competent supervisory 
authority,  whose  details  must  be  made  available  to  the  supervisory  authorities  involved.  As  a 
minimum, the monitoring body shall inform the competent supervisory authority without delay about: 

decisions where the monitoring body has taken action on infringements by code members, including 
cases where the monitoring body has ruled the suspension or exclusion of the controller or processor 
concerned from the code, together with the reasons thereof; 
periodic reports on the status and on the results of the code monitoring activity; 
the outcome of the review of the code or of any relevant audit findings; 
any substantial change that may affect the capacity of the monitoring body to monitor the code, for 
example, a financial takeover likely to pose a risk to its impartiality; and 
any decision about the approval, withdrawal or suspension of the monitoring body taken by its code 
members without the consultation and approval of the competent supervisory authority. 

i. 

ii. 
iii. 

iv. 

v. 

 
In case of a transnational code being monitored, the monitoring body shall inform the LSA and the 
supervisory authorities concerned12 without undue delay on the elements listed above. 

  CODE REVIEW MECHANISM 

 
 It is a requirement that the code sets out appropriate review mechanisms to ensure that the code 
remains relevant and continues to contribute to the proper application of the Regulation. Review 
mechanisms shall take into account any changes in the application and interpretation of the law, or 
where there are new technological developments which have impact upon the data processing carried 
out by the code members or the provisions of the code. The code itself must incorporate mechanism 
to review the code and it remains the responsibility of the code owner to guarantee the continued 
relevance and validity of the code. The monitoring body and, if appropriate, any other entity referred 
to in the code of conduct may be granted an active and participative role in the code review process. 
The monitoring body shall assume a consultative function to the code owner in case an update, review, 
amendment and / or extension of the monitored code is envisaged or deemed required. To carry out 
this function in a proper manner, the monitoring body shall have in place: 

i. 

mechanisms to gather the feedback of code members and other stakeholders with regards to the 
continued validity and suitability of the provisions of the code; 

 
12 As defined in Article 4(22) of the GDPR. 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

16 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

tools to elaborate the results of the consultations indicated above and translate them into proposed 
amendments and / or extensions to the code, if necessary; 
tools to monitor the introduction of new technological developments which might have an impact on 
the data processing activities which are governed by the code; 
record-keeping  tools  to  keep  track  of  its  monitoring  activities,  including  on  actions  taken  on  code 
members in case of infringements. Referring to these indicators, the monitoring body should be able 
to define the level of compliance with the code on the basis of measurable and empirical elements, to 
be communicated to the code owner on a regular basis for further action, as the case may be; and 
functional  communication  channels  to  correspond  with  the  code  owner  in  a  prompt  and  practical 
manner,  in  order  to  be  able  to  exchange  relevant  information  about  the  code  and  about  the 
developments in its application and monitoring. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

 

 

 REVOCATION OF A MONITORING BODY 

 
The monitoring body shall commit to fulfil the requirements listed in this document at the time of the 
application for accreditation and maintain them for the entire duration of its monitoring function. The 
monitoring body shall therefore demonstrate that it can deliver the code of conduct’s monitoring 
mechanism over a suitable period of time. In case an accredited monitoring body suffers a change 
which determines the loss of one or more of the requirements for accreditation laid down in this 
document, and / or may compromise its capacity to carry out the monitoring function, it shall notify 
to the competent supervisory authority in a timely manner. Such a substantial change may occur, for 
example, in case key personnel leaves the monitoring body and it is not replaced in a timely manner. 
In any event, the competent supervisory authority shall retain the power to revoke the accreditation 
status  of  the monitoring  body,  in terms  of  Article  41(5) of  the  GDPR.  The competent  supervisory 
authority  may  also  decide  to  revoke  the  accreditation  of  the  monitoring  body  in  case  the  latter 
infringes  the  provisions  of  the  code,  or  more  in  general  of  data  protection  law.  In  such  a  case, 
depending on the circumstances, prior to the revocation, the competent supervisory authority should 
give the monitoring body the opportunity to urgently address the issues encountered and remediate 
to its infringements by taking the necessary corrective actions. In the case of transnational codes, the 
competent supervisory authority should consult and seek the views of the concerned Supervisory 
Authorities and communicate that it intends to revoke the accreditation of the monitoring body to all 
concerned Supervisory Authorities and to the Board. Taking into account that the revocation of a 
previously accredited monitoring body may adversely affect the reputation or business interests of 
the code members and may result in a reduction of trust of data subjects or other stakeholders, as a 
consequence  of  such  revocation,  the  code  may  be  suspended  or  permanently  withdrawn.  It  is 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

17 

    

Information and Data Protection Commissioner 

 

 
mandatory that the code owner includes relevant provisions in the code to discipline the course of 
action to be followed in the case of revocation of the accreditation of the monitoring body by the 
competent supervisory authority.  
 

PUBLIC 

Accreditation Requirements for Monitoring Bodies 

18 

