@aepd.es  
AEPD  
www.aepd.es  
AEPD_es  

Plan for the arrival  
of the mobile phone  
By giving a mobile phone to our children, we provide them with the opportunity to access a wide variety of information, relationships, and content. However, there are also risks they need to be aware of. Before giving it to them, assess their level of maturity and explain these risks to them.  

Take care of data  
on social media  
Discuss the dangers that may be encountered and how to manage their data. Set up their social media profile together.  

Know who they are talking to  
What contacts do they have on their social media? Who do they follow? Take an interest in these matters while respecting their privacy. Teach them not to share personal information or photographs with strangers, as this can lead to situations of cyberbullying, blackmail, or grooming.  

Be open to help  
Teach them that they can talk to you about any situation that has made them feel uncomfortable. Being available to help in a timely manner can prevent the situation from becoming more serious. The AEPD has a Priority Channel to report the unauthorized publication of sensitive, sexual, or violent content on the internet and to request its urgent removal.  

Ensure a  
disconnection space  
Share with them the need to have technology-free moments for the whole family that allow access to other types of experiences that benefit their development.  

Supervise and  
set limits  
Make sure that the mobile phone does not take away time from engaging in other key activities for their development (sleeping, studying, playing without electronic devices, etc.).  

Take an interest in  
their video games  
Offer them games suitable for their age and maturity. Accompanying them in their digital life also means supervising what they play, how much time they dedicate to it, and how they behave.  

Stimulate their  
critical thinking  
Explain to them the possible consequences of what is sent or published. Before posting on social media or sending photos, videos, or audio in which other people appear, they must ensure that the other person agrees.  

You are responsible for  
your children  
Parents are civilly liable for the damages caused by their children. They are also jointly liable for the fines imposed regarding the protection of data for minors.  

Observe how they  
feel in their digital life  
Pay attention to their emotions, especially to mood changes or inappropriate reactions after periods of intensive use. Identify any situation that is affecting their physical and mental well-being at an early stage.  

MORE THAN A MOBILE PHONE  
THE GUIDE THAT DOES NOT COME WITH THE MOBILE PHONE  
1  
3  
5  
7  
9  
2  
4  
6  
8  
10  
?  
#PriorityChannel  
Take a look at the complete guide for more tips: