

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data by the bailiff
Court bailiff, bailiff's office Břeclav


The inspection was initiated on the basis of the complainant's initiative, which was forwarded to the Office by the Police of the Czech Republic, Břeclav. The subject of the inspection was the complainant's communication, which she substantiated with evidence (copies of e-mails), that for a longer period of time - exceeding one year, an employee of the Břeclav enforcement office has been sending her monthly reports - reports containing the personal data of approximately 1,200 people. She further stated that she alerted the employee of the bailiff's office via e-mail, who thanked her for the alert, but then sent her the report further. It was found that the employee of the executor's office had the obligation to send reports to the largest creditor company once a month, containing overviews of the progress of executions, including at least first name, surname, social security number, address, amount owed, executed amount, name of the creditor and name of the original debtor. The monthly reports contained the personal data of approximately 1,200 people. The employee was obliged to send reports to two employees of the credit company - to two e-mail addresses. About more than a year ago, by mistake when writing an e-mail address, a so-called "whisperer" offered her an address that contained the same name but a different domain. She did not notice this and continued to send e-mails to this incorrect address, i.e. the e-mail address of the complainant. She confirmed that she had received a notice that it was an incorrect address, but had subsequently forgotten about it. She justified her actions by saying that she had major family problems. The inspection showed that the inspected person did not take sufficient appropriate technical and organizational measures, did not correctly evaluate the risks associated with sending regular reports, and did not carry out any control measures. Based on the inspection findings, it was established that the inspected person violated the obligation according to Article 5 paragraph 1 letter f) Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The inspected person did not object to the inspection report.

Additional information:
In the key procedures of data processing and protection, especially during the regular transfer of documents/information containing personal data, each controller and processor must also set up and regularly evaluate mechanisms to ensure the elimination and control of cases of human factor failure, which will enable the detection of individual errors.






ContextLocation: Document folders > Sitemap > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2019 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Municipalities and state administration > Inspection of personal data processing by the bailiffView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



