1/16

 File No.: PS/00295/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 12, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against BAR DA VINCI
(SHUANGFENG ZHOU) (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
is transcribed:

<<

Procedure no.: PS/00295/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On April 30, 2019, a claim is received at this Agency
filed by the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE CIVIL GUARD. MARKET STALL
***LOCATION.1
(hereinafter referred to as the claimant) v. BAR DA VINCI
(SHUANGFENG ZHOU) with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one) for having
installed a video surveillance system both outside and inside the
establishment in *** ADDRESS.1, and not have informative area signs
video surveillance.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

For this reason, file E/05410/2019 was opened, sending a letter to the defendant
informing you of the requirements to carry out data processing
personal through such devices. This letter was returned by the service of
mail with the notation "Wrong address".

Likewise, the claimant organization was informed that if the non-compliance
adoption of measures would be initiated, where appropriate, the actions provided for in the
data protection regulations.

On May 12, 2021, it had entry in this Spanish Protection Agency
of Data a document presented by the complaining party, by means of which it formulates
new claim against the claimed party for the installation of a
video surveillance without information signs, there being indications of a possible
Non-compliance with the provisions of the data protection regulations
staff.

Provides record-complaint of the Civil Guard for not having announcing badges,
both outside and inside the establishment of video-surveillance area.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

On June 8, 2021, this Agency received a document from the claimant
providing several photos:

- In one of them you can see the informative poster of the video-monitored area, located in the
access to the establishment, in which the identification and address of the
person responsible for the video surveillance system, before whom the interested parties
they can exercise their rights.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

- Other photographs show the images captured by the installed cameras

both inside and outside.

From the analysis of the photographs provided of the images that the cameras would capture
that make up the system from their location, it follows that two of them are
interiors capturing areas of the bar and interior of the premises and a third that captures the
the outdoor terrace, but in all its extension, excessively capturing the public thoroughfare.,
given that between the bar and the terrace it requires a wide public space between them.

It can be deduced from the images provided that there is a monitor where they are displayed.
the images captured from the outside (terrace) in public view in the upper part of
a wall. Also, it has another monitor that appears in grids that apparently
it is not in public view.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of June 10
of 2021.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each
Control Authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: «The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

II

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the reported video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, regarding the principles of treatment,
provides that personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")." This article enshrines the principle of data minimization in the treatment
of personal data. It assumes that said treatment is adjusted and proportional to
the purpose to which it is directed, and the processing of data must be restricted
excessive or proceed to suppress them.

The relevance in the processing of the data must occur both in the field of
collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on them.

Article 13, sections 1 and 2, of the RGPD, establishes the information that must be provided
to the interested party at the time of collecting their data. In the case of treatments
of personal data for surveillance purposes through camera systems or
video cameras, the duty of information can be fulfilled by placing, in the
video-monitored areas, an informative badge located in a sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces, and using forms in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

that the planned information is detailed, which the person in charge must make available
of those interested.

The content and design of the informative label must comply with the provisions of the
Article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD, referred to
specifically to "Processing for video surveillance purposes", the processing of
images in public places can only be made -if applicable and prior to the
compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security, unless the exception established in the aforementioned article 22 of the
LOPDGDD for individuals or legal entities, public or private, respecting the
conditions required in said article.

On some occasions, the protection of private spaces is only possible if the
cameras are located in spaces such as facades. Sometimes it is also necessary
capture the accesses, doors or entrances, so that, even if the camera is
inside the building, it is impossible not to record a minimum and
essential of the public road, which is inevitably captured.

For this exception on the protection of private spaces to be applicable,
There must be an alternative installation possibility. In these cases, the responsible
of the treatment carried out through cameras will adapt the use of the installation,
so that the impact on the rights of third parties (passers-by) is the minimum possible.
In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces,
adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 and
13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

Specifically, at least one badge must be placed in video-monitored areas.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed, which will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts. Likewise, the information must be kept available to those affected.
to which the aforementioned RGPD refers.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

- Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. not allowed, for
Therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with the purpose
to intimidate them or affect their privacy without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

In relation to the above, to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to data protection legislation
including the RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” /
“normative”), as well as the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other
purposes, as well as the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both
available in the “Guides and tools” section).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

v

The claim is based on the lack of information poster of the existence of a system
video surveillance system installed at the claimant's premises.

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided the evidence
indicated in the “Facts” section of this agreement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

In accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, transfer of
the claim to the respondent, who responded by providing several photographs.

In one of them, you can see the informative poster of the video-monitored area, located at the access
to the establishment, in which appears the identification and address of the person
responsible for the video surveillance system, before which the interested parties can
exercise their rights.

Other photographs show the images captured by the cameras installed both
inside as well as outside.

From the analysis of the photographs provided of the images that the cameras would capture
that make up the system from their location, it follows that two of them are
interiors capturing areas of the bar and interior of the premises and a third that captures the
the outdoor terrace, but in all its extension, excessively capturing the public thoroughfare.,
given that between the bar and the terrace it requires a wide public space between them.

Likewise, it appears that there is a monitor where the images are displayed.
captured from the outside (terrace) in public view at the top of a wall.
Also, you have another monitor that appears in grids that are apparently not
is in public view.

In accordance with the foregoing, this Agency considers that, once this
sanctioning procedure, the defendant has placed the information poster of the area
video surveillance, and that there are indications of the existence of a security camera
video surveillance installed in ***ADDRESS.1 that captures images of the public road in
excess.

SAW

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to issue a warning -article 58.2 b)-, the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD
-article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

7th

The art. 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (LPACAP, hereinafter),
provides the following: “The documents formalized by the officials to whom the
recognizes the condition of authority and in which, observing the legal requirements
corresponding the facts verified by those are gathered will prove of
unless proven otherwise”. The Security Forces and Bodies
displaced to the scene of the events confirm the presence of the system.

viii

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the exposed facts do not comply with what is established in the
articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, for what they could suppose the commission of paths
offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22; [...]”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious and prescribes after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law.”

For its part, article 74 of the aforementioned LOPDGDD provides:

“They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right to
information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by articles 13
and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

IX

In the present case, regarding the breach of article 13 of the RGPD, it is observed
that the respondent has shown a cooperative attitude with this Agency in order to
remedy the violation and mitigate possible adverse effects.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

For all these reasons, it is considered that the corresponding sanction is to direct a
warning, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 b) of the RGPD, in
in relation to what is stated in Considering 148, cited above.

Regarding the external camera that captures images in excess, regarding what
established in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, according to the provisions of article 83.2 of the
RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2 d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible
with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD. So,
It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established by the
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the LOPDGDD, regarding
to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD.

In the initial assessment, the following have been considered:

-

-

The nature of the infraction when having a video surveillance system
that is oriented towards public transit areas without just cause,
processing data of identifiable natural persons (art. 83.5 a) RGPD.

The intention or negligence of the infringement, the camera is oriented
to the outside of your establishment (83.2.b) RGPD).

The claimed party must provide all the necessary documentation that proves
the legality of the system, that is, an informative poster (photograph showing the date and
time) as well as screen printing, also with date and time, of what it captures with
the cameras. In addition, you must prove that you have an information form in the
establishment that is managed for the appropriate legal purposes.

It must be remembered that the voluntary payment of the proposed amounts does not exempt
prove the regularization of the video surveillance system in accordance with the
regulations in force.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

Therefore, according to the above,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE AGAINST BAR DA VINCI
(SHUANGFENG ZHOU) with NIF ***NIF.1, for the alleged violation of article 5.1.c)
of the GDPR.

SECOND: DIRECT A WARNING TO BAR DA VINCI (SHUANGFENG
ZHOU) with NIF ***NIF.1, for the alleged violation of article 13 of the RGPD.

THIRD: APPOINT A.A.A. as instructor, and B.B.B. as secretary, indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data.

FIFTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of the LPACAP, the sanction
could correspond would be €500 (Five Hundred Euros), without prejudice to what is
of instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to BAR DA VINCI (SHUANGFENG ZHOU),
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the
pleadings and submit any evidence you deem appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations, this initial agreement may be
considered resolution proposal, according to what is established in article 64.2.f) of the
LPACAP.

The sanctioning procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from
from the date of the start-up agreement or, if applicable, the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at €400, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €400 and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. If it were appropriate to apply both reductions,
the amount of the penalty would be established at €300.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, you must make it effective by depositing it in account no.
ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the
reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it is accepted. Also, you must
send proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection for
continue with the procedure in accordance with the amount entered.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

948-161220

SECOND: On July 31, 2021, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 300 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00295/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BAR DA VINCI (SHUANGFENG
ZHOU).

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

936-160721

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

