TechDispatch on Neurodata

TechDispatch on Neurodata  
Project Number: 2024.2368  
Title: EDPS TechDispatch 2024-1  
PRINTED  
ISBN 978-92-9242-889-1  doi: 10.2804/018628  
QT-AD-24-001-ES-C  
HTML  
ISBN 978-92-9242-887-7  doi: 10.2804/829278  
QT-AD-24-001-ES-Q  
PDF  
ISBN 978-92-9242-888-4  doi: 10.2804/15092  
QT-AD-24-001-ES-N  

TechDispatch on Neurodata  
1. What are neurodata?  
The brain, along with the spinal cord, constitutes the central nervous system, which plays a crucial role in the regulation and coordination of various bodily functions, including human cognitive abilities. The intricate and unique activity of the brain has always been considered a particularly interesting field of study.  
Over the years, different techniques have been proposed to interpret or interact with the functions of the human brain. Brain imaging techniques were originally developed, and are still mostly applied, in the context of clinical medicine and neuroscientific research. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has proven effective for the treatment of migraines, deep brain stimulation (DBS) is increasingly used as a treatment for essential tremor, Parkinson's disease, dystonia, and obsessive-compulsive disorder, and the latest brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) are capable of restoring senses such as sight or hearing.  
However, in recent years, there has been a concerning trend towards a technically possible, albeit ethically and legally questionable, use of certain neurotechnologies within an ever-evolving service market. For example, different multinational companies use neuromarketing research services to measure the human brain's reaction to advertisements or products. Additionally, neuromarketing companies apply neuroimaging techniques to study, analyze, and predict consumer behavior. Neurotechnologies have also been used in wearable devices for a range of everyday activities, such as education, gaming, and entertainment (for example, wireless headsets connected to smartphones and personal computers). The use of artificial intelligence (AI) systems may also technically enable the exploitation of neurodata for purposes such as law enforcement, monitoring migrants and asylum seekers, as well as by private entities, for example, for workplace or commercial surveillance. In this context, it is important to emphasize that certain uses of neurodata pose unacceptable risks to fundamental rights and are likely illegal under Union Law. Section 3 of this document will highlight some of the risks that may arise.  
Many research initiatives around the world demonstrate the growing interest in the potential of neurotechnology. In the United States, the so-called BRAIN Initiative,  

I. Technologies that monitor electrical activity in the brain for various purposes, including neuromonitoring (real-time assessment of brain function), neurocognitive training (using certain frequency bands to enhance neurocognitive functions), and device control.  
II. Abbreviation for Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies® Initiative.
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
in partnership with the common goal of accelerating the development of innovative neurotechnologies, is driving the Brain Activity Map Project (MAP Project). The MAP Project investigates the dynamic interrelations of specific cell types or brain regions with special interest in circuits and their dysfunction, which are the basis of symptoms and disability in many neurological, mental, and substance abuse disorders. In Asia, the China Brain Project aims to investigate the properties of individual nerve cells and how they communicate at synapses to produce cognitive functions such as awareness, information management, memory, and reasoning, improve diagnosis and prevent brain diseases, and promote information technology and artificial intelligence projects inspired by the brain that prioritize brain-inspired AI over other approaches. In Europe, the Human Brain Project (HBP) is a project funded by the European Union to synthetically reproduce human brain capabilities and advance research in the fields of medicine and neuroscience. To this end, the project is building EBRAINS, a research infrastructure that will provide open access to advanced digital tools, datasets, and services to facilitate brain research.  

Definitions and Basic Concepts  
Neurotechnology was defined in 2007 in the journal Nature Biotechnology as “any development that allows monitoring or modifying brain function.” Later, in 2019, the OECD revisited this definition identifying neurotechnologies as all “devices and procedures used to access, investigate, evaluate, manipulate, and emulate the structure and function of neural systems.” The field of neurotechnology can be divided into different subfields depending on its operation and interaction with the nervous system.  

From the perspective of its deployment, neurotechnologies can be of the following types:  

• Invasive. This subfield encompasses technologies that require brain-computer interfaces to be surgically implanted in or near the brain. Until recently, the invasive surgery required for this subfield posed many risks to individuals. Nowadays, the use of nanotechnologies allows access to the brain using the cardiovascular system as a medium, thus substantially reducing risks.  

• Non-invasive. This subfield includes technologies in which brain-computer interfaces are placed outside the body (for example, glasses, visors, or headbands) and do not require any type of surgical implantation.  

From the perspective of interaction, neurotechnologies can:  

• Record brain activity. These are neurotechnologies that record brain activity, such as electroencephalograms (EEG) or that provide an image of the brain through functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).  

• Manipulate brain activity. These neurotechnologies are capable of modulating brain activity with short-term effects (neurostimulation) or long-term effects (neuromodulation).  

Additionally, they can be of the following types:  

• Local. Interaction occurs through sensors in direct contact with the user's body, so individuals are aware of the existence of the sensors.  

• Remote. Interaction occurs through sensors that are not in direct contact with the user's body but are located at a distance, so the user may not be aware of their existence.  

Regarding the method of data collection, we can distinguish between:  

• Passive collection. The user does not have to explicitly carry out any activity for data collection to occur.  

• Active collection. Neurotechnologies collect data while users perform specific activities such as explicitly thinking about something, evoking images, answering questions, performing specific physical tasks, or facing specifically designed stimuli.  

Neuro-rights are still an emerging and evolving concept. In 2017, professors Marcello Ienca and Roberto Andorno published an article in which, after evaluating the implications of emerging neurotechnology applications within the framework of human rights, they suggested that existing human rights might not be sufficient to address these emerging issues and proposed four new rights, known as neuro-rights. Other scholars, such as neurobiologist Rafael Yuste, have worked in the same direction formulating new neuro-rights.  

So far, the following neuro-rights have been proposed:  

1. Cognitive freedom. The freedom of a person to decide whether their brain activity...
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
and their mental processes can be recorded and/or modulated or not.  

2. Mental Privacy. The freedom and ability of a person to conceal their mental information and avoid non-consensual intrusion into their cognitive domain.  

3. Mental Integrity. The prohibition of non-consensual or harmful modulation of a person's brain activity (for example, "brain hacking").  

4. Psychological Continuity. The right to preserve one's personal identity and the continuity of mental life against non-consensual external alterations by third parties. For example, a person was cured of Parkinson's disease, but brain stimulation made them addicted to Johnny Cash's music.  

5. Fair Access. The right of the entire population to equitable access to the benefits of improvements in sensory and mental capacity through neurotechnology.  

It should be noted that some scholars believe that the development of current human rights and the promotion of specific legislative reforms and international conventions could be better and more effective solutions to the concerns raised by neurotechnologies.  
Neurodata can be defined as the information collected from the brain and/or the nervous system. In this document, we also consider inferences directly based on this data as neurodata, such as emotional signals or preferences.  
It should be taken into account that neurodata is often collected from identified individuals. Sometimes, the individuals in question identify themselves (for example, in cases of use related to entertainment), while other times it is those managing the sensors used for data collection who identify them (for example, in cases of use related to health). Even if the individual in question is not identified during the collection of neurodata, they would still be identifiable, as there is evidence indicating that neurodata allows for unique identification of individuals. Consequently, human neurodata is personal data.  
A very relevant aspect of brain waves, and perhaps other forms of neurodata, is that they are unique to each individual. This uniqueness has been used in various research works to build authentication systems based on brain waves. However, the uniqueness of brain waves also allows for distinguishing individuals for other purposes, such as profiling.  

TechDispatch on Neurodata  
The recent Report from the International Bioethics Committee of UNESCO on Neurotechnology, which revisits the definition proposed by the OECD, indeed highlights that neurodata allows for the identification of an individual.  
For this reason, many international organizations emphasize the importance of the right to privacy concerning the processing of neurodata. The Council of the European Union, in the León Declaration on European Neurotechnology, committed to strengthening the development of human-centered and rights-oriented neurotechnologies in the EU. The Inter-American Juridical Committee of the OAS (CJI) recognizes in its Declaration of the Inter-American Juridical Committee on Neuroscience, Neurotechnologies, and Human Rights that the right to privacy entails protection against interference in the most intimate sphere of individuals and encompasses a series of factors related to human dignity.  
According to the OECD Recommendation on Responsible Innovation in Neurotechnology, brain data are “data related to the functioning or structure of the human brain of an identified or identifiable individual that includes unique information about their physiology, health, or mental states.”  
And the Chilean government is currently working on two bills related to neurodata and neurorights: a bill to amend the Chilean Constitution and a bill on neuroprotection and regulation of research, development, and advancement in neurotechnologies. While the second bill is still under discussion, the first was approved in 2021. The aim is not to discourage research but to “protect brain activity, as well as the information it contains.”  

2. Treatment of Neurodata  
Considering the treatment of "neurodata" as defined in this document, it must be taken into account that, given the definition of "neurodata" considered in this document, the following must be considered for each treatment: (i) the type of data processed; (ii) the purpose of the treatment.  
If we first consider the type of data processed, treatments can be distinguished as follows:  

• Data related to the structure of the brain. Brain tissue is made up of cells and the spaces between these cells. There are different techniques that allow measuring anatomical and physiological aspects from these elements to understand the structure of the cells, their physical relationships, or their functioning at a low level.
TechDispatch on Neurodata

• Data related to the function and activity of the brain. Different techniques allow for the collection of neural signals produced by the main parts of the brain (brainstem, cerebellum, brain trunk, etc.) through neuro-recording or neuroimaging. This data collection can be performed by analyzing the blood flow in the brain, as active regions require more oxygenated blood, or the electrical activity of the brain.

• Data related to the peripheral nervous system. This type of data is collected using electrodes within peripheral nerve interface (PNI) devices designed to gather bioelectrical information about the anatomy, function, and activity of the nerves. These devices can be located in the nerve trunk, placed on or near the surface of the nerve trunk, or within the nerve itself.

A different approach is to categorize treatments according to their purpose. In this case, three different categories can be distinguished:

CATEGORY 1
Treatment of neurodata that provides direct knowledge or predictions about a person's health or physical condition, problem-solving, reasoning, decision-making, understanding, memory retrieval, perception, language, emotions, etc. Predictions are included in this category of data treatment because neurodata can be decodable, to some extent, and allow for interpretation or inference. For example, individuals can imagine their own writing, and the brain signals can be decoded and translated into accurate text messages. Some initiatives use neurodata to infer users' emotions. In general, Artificial Intelligence is being used as a tool to discover patterns that allow for the decoding of brain activity.

This category includes extreme scenarios such as those proposed by the emerging field of neuroanalysis, such as the "brain fingerprint" and lie detection. This field focuses on detecting the existence of specific information in the brain by measuring brain waves or uniquely identifying individuals. The brain reacts to external stimuli; therefore, it is possible to understand if the person recognizes something specific through a specific wave generated by the recognition, which reveals an "aha moment." This concept can also be employed for lie detection. As noted in the Joint Opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS on the AI Act, the scientific validity of the lie detector is not demonstrated. In fact, many scholars argue in this same sense. The scientific validity of AI for emotion recognition has also not been demonstrated. And as described in more detail in section 4, these uses of neurodata may pose unacceptable risks to fundamental rights.

The domains of application of this category of data treatments are:

• Health. The treatment of neurodata can be used to investigate the functioning of the brain and the nervous system. For example, to understand different cognitive processes or the pathologies that affect it. But also for the detection, diagnosis, prediction, or decision-making regarding the treatment or intervention of different neurological or mental conditions, disorders, and diseases.

• Education. The treatment of neurodata can help improve student performance and learning outcomes, considering internal aspects (skills, barriers, preferences) and external aspects (classroom conditions, teaching methodology, lesson planning). For example, to make evidence-based decisions that optimize the results obtained in educational processes.

• Entertainment. This domain is similar to the previous one, but instead of optimizing learning outcomes, it seeks to maximize users' enjoyment of leisure and entertainment products by understanding how they use them, how they perceive them, how they impact them, or how different aspects of design affect their perceptions.

• Economy and marketing. This domain is similar to the two previous ones. But in this case, neurodata is treated to reduce uncertainty, trying to understand and predict consumer behavior (motivations, preferences) and their decision-making.

• Labor market. The treatment of neurodata can be used to monitor employees, to help understand and improve their performance, or during hiring and promotion processes.

• Security and surveillance. This domain involves careful monitoring of the individual to prevent accidents or crimes. For example, the treatment of neurodata can be used to monitor drivers or pilots, with the aim of preventing accidents caused by drowsiness, lack of attention, etc.
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
CATEGORY 2  
Processing of neurodata that allows for the control of an application or device. In this case, we can find reading operations similar to those in the first category, but additionally, and thanks to the collected data, an extra operation that involves the control of an external artifact.  
The application domains that benefit from this category of data processing are:  

• Orthopedic or prosthetic aids, medical implants, or environment-assisted living. The processing of neurodata can be used to assist people with different conditions and illnesses in their daily lives.  

• Video games, virtual reality, and the metaverse. The processing of neurodata can be used to control video games and other types of software.  

• Robotics. The processing of neurodata can be used to control machinery, precision devices, or applications with hands-free operation.  

• Defense. This domain involves the control of weapon systems, bomb disposal robots, vehicles, or drones.  

CATEGORY 3  
Processing of neurodata that allows for the stimulation or modulation of the subject, achieving neurofeedback (closed loop). This means that brain signals (outputs) are used to generate new signals that are fed back into the brain (as inputs). According to research in this field, neurofeedback can help data subjects control their brain waves, whether they are aware of it or not.  
The application domains in this category are:  
• Psychology. The processing of neurodata is used to change the way the brain responds to certain stimuli as a method of therapy by monitoring brain activity and providing feedback, usually through visual or auditory signals. For example, to treat ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder), anxiety, depression, epilepsy, autism spectrum disorder, insomnia, or drug addiction.  

• Neuromodulation. The processing of neurodata can be used to enhance cognitive and affective abilities in healthy individuals. For example, to achieve benefits beyond the normal functioning of an average brain.  

3. Use Cases of Neurodata Processing  
This section presents and analyzes three use cases, each as an example of each of the categories of neurodata processing presented in the previous section. The analysis will be conducted with a common structure for all of them (Figure 1).  

1. Collection of raw neurodata using sensors.  
2. Storage of raw neurodata in storage/computing infrastructures, either a single one or a hierarchy of them. Generally, the closer to the sensors (local or edge infrastructure), the greater the available bandwidth, lower latencies, and greater control over the data. However, there is also less storage and computing capacity, so remote or cloud infrastructure is often used at some point in the data processing.  
3. (Optional) Filtering or preprocessing can be applied to the raw data between steps 1 and 2 or after step 2.  
4. Processing itself, which differs according to the purpose:  
   Category 1:  
   a. If the use case is based on knowledge obtained directly from the neurodata, this knowledge is constructed and formatted, usually to perform some detection, make a decision, or obtain some recommendation or advice.  
   b. If the use case is based on predictions or inferences, the neurodata is processed to obtain these results. Currently, neurodata is often the input for previously trained AI models to make the desired inferences.  

   Category 2: Neurodata is processed to be interpreted or decoded. Data coming, for example, from the motor cortex, the region of the brain involved in planning, controlling, and executing voluntary movements, is translated into instructions for the external artifact being controlled. Again, neurodata is often the input for previously trained machine learning or AI models to perform this translation.  

   Category 3: Neurodata is processed to determine the neurofeedback protocol necessary for the training of each patient or individual.  
The processing activities can be executed on the same servers where the data was stored in the previous step or on a different infrastructure.  

5. The results obtained in the previous step are used for different purposes:  
   Category 1: The knowledge or predictions are displayed or visualized as individual or collective metrics, reports, etc., through dashboards, interfaces, or messaging applications.  

   Category 2: The instructions are communicated or sent to the external artifacts that are to be controlled.
TechDispatch on Neurodata

**Category 3:** Training parameters are shared with data subjects as visual or auditory signals, or direct brain stimulation or modulation.

5. Storage of the obtained results to maintain graphs and historical records, statistics, reports, etc. The results can be stored on the same servers where the raw neurodata was initially stored or in a different infrastructure. Once this general structure for use cases is understood, we can proceed to analyze three specific cases. The use cases presented in this section are fictional but representative of the types of applications found today. Bibliographic references for similar real cases are provided.

**Monitoring Concentration and Attention in Educational Environments.**  
**Brief Description**  
The concentration or attention of students in both in-person and online educational environments can be monitored using portable and lightweight electromagnetic sensors.

**Domain of Application**  
Education.

**Data Subjects**  
Students.

**Type of Data**  
Function and activity (electromagnetic).

**Type of Sensors and Collection**  
Non-invasive, passive or active, local.

**Type of Processing**  
**Category 1.** Processing of neurodata that provides direct knowledge or predictions about the person's health or physical state, problem-solving, reasoning, decision-making, understanding, memory retrieval, perception, language, emotions, etc.

**Purpose**  
Monitoring concentration and attention.

In step 1, the headsets distributed among students are used during in-person learning to collect raw neurodata. Data collection is both passive, which does not involve performing any specific task, and active, which refers to performing specific cognitive tasks (e.g., reading, solving problems, etc.). This collection occurs at specific moments, such as upon arrival, before recess, before lunch, etc. Contextual variables are also measured, such as time, temperature, humidity, CO2 concentration, or lighting.

In step 2, this unprocessed neurodata is stored on a local school server, where filtering and preprocessing operations are performed. For example, useless data from some electrodes is removed, data is referenced to a common base, incorrect measurements are deleted, etc. Once these operations are completed, some of the resulting data, aggregated and anonymized, is sent to a cloud service.

In steps 3 and 4:
1. Each teacher has access to a dashboard on the classroom computer with easy-to-understand, real-time metrics and trends of individual concentration and attention for each student. In this way, teachers can adapt their methodologies (materials, approaches, use of technology), monitor the impact of personal interactions (teacher-student, student-student), propose break periods or even naps, or detect difficulties and learning disorders.
2. The service offered from the cloud advises school administrators on classroom schedules and conditions regarding temperature, humidity, lighting, ventilation, etc. These indications are obtained by inputting the measured contextual variables and the periodically received overall performance metrics (group attention metrics, perception, execution, and working memory) into an AI model.

Finally, in step 5, the obtained results are stored, both locally and in the cloud, to maintain graphs and historical records.

**Video Games Played with Thought Instead of Hands.**  
**Brief Description**  
The electrical activity of the brain can be converted into signals that control specific aspects of the video game using portable and lightweight electromagnetic sensors such as headsets or helmets that can be used as game controllers.

**Domain of Application**  
Video games, virtual reality, and the metaverse.

**Data Subjects**  
Players.

**Type of Data**  
Function and activity (electromagnetic).

**Type of Sensors and Collection**  
Non-invasive, active, local.

**Type of Processing**  
**Category 2.** Processing of neurodata that allows control of an application or device.

**Purpose**  
Playing hands-free.
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
In step 1, sensors collect neurodata from players. This collection is active as the player must imagine a physical movement necessary to play: pressing a button on the keyboard, moving the mouse, using the controller with a specific combination, etc.  
In step 2, this raw neurodata is stored on a local server, filtered, and preprocessed.  
In step 3, a trained AI model is used to recognize the repeatable brain activity associated with different physical movements. This model allows for the translation of preprocessed brain signals into specific activities within the game. This method is often referred to as "motor imagery" and enables the player to control a character with thought, for example, by evoking the physical movements necessary to move the character, use a weapon, etc., decoding the neurodata into concrete actions. It is important to understand that the neurodata is decoded into a movement of the player: the player must think about the actions performed with a keyboard, a mouse, or a controller, not about the action that the character must perform. For example, think about pressing the right button on the console controller, not about the character moving to the right.  
In step 4, the generated instructions are sent to the video game to produce the desired effects on the character and to control it without using hands.  
Finally, in step 5, some records related to these instructions sent to the game are stored in the system (the communications made between the system and the game).  

Management of Chronic Pain.  
Brief Description  
- Chronic pain can be managed by modifying specific brain activity through neurofeedback devices used at home.  
Application Domain  
- Psychology.  
Data Subjects  
- Patients with chronic pain.  
Type of Data  
- Function and activity (electromagnetic).  
Type of Sensors and Collection  
- Non-invasive, active, local.  
Type of Treatment  
- Category 3. Treatment of neurodata that allows for the stimulation or modulation of the subject, achieving neurofeedback (closed loop).  
Purpose  
- Management of chronic pain.  

TechDispatch on Neurodata  
In step 1, the sensors collect neurodata from patients, all of whom have chronic pain. This collection is active as the neurofeedback sessions are designed very specifically. For example, these sessions often begin with reference recordings collecting data from the resting state of a brain (eyes closed, eyes open looking at a fixed point, previously trained breathing patterns, etc.). In addition to the neurodata, other variables such as current pain level, mood, or quality of sleep from the previous night are also measured through questionnaires.  
In step 2, this raw neurodata is stored on a remote server where it is filtered to eliminate artifacts produced by electrode movements or blinking, for example.  
In step 3, an AI model running on this server produces personalized visual or audio signals based on all the data collected in step 1.  
In step 4, the generated signals are sent to simple games running on the patient's tablets or mobile devices, according to their preferences. In this way, patients see a gamified representation of their brain signals. By controlling the game, they control these signals, changing them to reduce the level of pain and associated symptoms. This type of neurofeedback game is simple and monotonous, offering low stimulation to patients as overstimulation could hinder neuromodulation. The game is designed solely to interact with specific brain processes; the goal is not entertainment but to enable patients to provoke their own neuromodulation.  
Finally, in step 5, data related to the training sessions are stored on the server to monitor the evolution of patients with different historical graphs and statistics. Very similar developments can be found in the case of patients with depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress who use low-intensity transcranial electrical stimulation based on pulses.  

4. Challenges of Data Protection in the Treatment of Neurodata  
4.1. Threats to the Rights and Freedoms of Individuals  
As already mentioned, neurotechnologies promise to provide detailed information about individuals' brain activity and reveal thoughts and feelings.
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
personal data that is more intimate, including those that do not translate into actions and, consequently, cannot be measured or inferred through data collected via other technologies. The use of artificial intelligence could greatly enhance the knowledge obtained through neurodata along with other contextual data. Furthermore, neurofeedback and brain implants offer the possibility to influence and rewrite brain activity and individuals' identities.  
Neurotechnologies represent an unprecedented intrusion into the private sphere of individuals. Neurotechnologies can also violate other fundamental rights and freedoms beyond the rights to privacy and data protection.  
In addition to privacy and data protection (Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU), certain uses of neurodata endanger fundamental rights such as human dignity (Article 1 of the Charter) or physical and mental integrity (Article 3 of the Charter). For example, in contexts such as law enforcement, the use of neurodata for lie detection or for the prevention of criminal offenses (“predictive policing”) would call into question the right to the presumption of innocence and to a fair trial.  
The use of certain highly intrusive AI systems would go against the fundamental values of the EU, would not comply with the principles of necessity and proportionality, or would directly conflict with the essential values of the EU and affect human dignity. For instance, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the use of AI to infer the emotions of a natural person is highly undesirable and should be prohibited, except in certain very specific use cases, for health or research purposes (for example, patients for whom emotion recognition is important) and with appropriate safeguards. The EDPB and the EDPS also recommend the explicit prohibition of the use of AI systems intended to be used by law enforcement authorities, such as polygraphs and similar tools whose scientific validity is unproven.  
The recently approved AI Act expressly prohibits, among other things: manipulative AI and AI that exploits the vulnerabilities of an individual or a group of individuals; the introduction to the market and the deployment of emotion recognition systems in the educational environment and in the workplace, as well as AI systems that profile individuals and groups based on biometrics according to special categories of data (for example, sexual orientation or political beliefs).  
15  
73,74  
75  
76  
VII  
VI  
V  
V. Article 5, paragraph 1, letters a) and b), of the Artificial Intelligence Act.  
VI. Article 5, paragraph 1, letter f), of the Artificial Intelligence Act.  
VII. Article 5, paragraph 1, letter g), of the Artificial Intelligence Act.
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
4.2. Data Protection Requirements and Principles  
a. Special Categories of Data  
As a preliminary matter, it should be noted that neurodata often constitutes special categories of personal data as defined by EU data protection legislation (for example, as biometric data or data related to health). In principle, the processing of special categories of data is prohibited, except for certain exceptions where specific circumstances apply. When permitted, the processing of neurodata must still comply with all other data protection requirements and principles, such as proportionality, accuracy, transparency, and fairness.  
b. Proportionality and Data Minimization  
Proportionality requires that data controllers achieve a balance between the means used and the objective pursued. According to the principle of data minimization, only personal data that is adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which it is processed should be collected and processed.  
The advent of neurotechnologies challenges the principle of proportionality. Specifically, neurotechnologies rely on the effortless collection of massive amounts of data. Due to the many functions of the brain and its intense activity 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, devices or services related to neurotechnology have the potential to collect a large amount of neurodata, and with it, neurotechnologies can infer the health or physical and mental state of individuals (for example, problem-solving, reasoning, decision-making, understanding, memory retrieval, perception, language, emotions). Therefore, this constitutes a very intrusive processing, if not the most intrusive, that invades the mental privacy and, at times, the mental integrity of the affected individual. The collection of brain signatures introduces other elements of intrusion. This is due to the possibility of inferring information related to the experiences of the data subjects without them explicitly sharing it or the possibility of profiling data subjects based on brainwave patterns.  
For example, the processing of neurodata in the context of education and entertainment could lead to the processing of neurodata that infers other information about the individual, particularly regarding their health status, including mental health. This risk is less evident in the processing of neurodata related to healthcare and psychology, where a complete brain mapping may be essential for an accurate diagnosis.  
Those considering processing neurodata must always take into account the intrusive nature of such data processing and carefully assess whether the purpose pursued justifies this extremely invasive and sensitive data processing, which affects the most intimate aspects of an individual's life. As a general rule, the EDPS considers that the processing of data, such as taking "brain signatures," should only be carried out for health purposes, accompanied by all conditions and guarantees of data protection. It would be alarming for any data controller that is not a healthcare provider to use neurodata to detect or infer health information about a person (in particular, very sensitive information that may not yet be known to that person, for example, about psychological disorders or a neurodegenerative disease).  
c. Data Accuracy  
According to the GDPR, personal data must be “accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable steps must be taken to ensure that personal data that are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed are erased or rectified without delay.”  
One of the concerns regarding data accuracy in the processing of neurodata is brain plasticity. The brain is characterized by impressive plasticity, meaning that its structure changes over time. There are studies that claim that every decade after the age of 40, the volume of the brain changes by about 5%.  
Data subjects within the age range of 5 to 30 years are considered to be within the period of greatest change and plasticity of the brain. These age ranges largely overlap with the objectives of systems that process neurodata for learning and gaming. Brain plasticity can also affect the structure of the brain in the case of children abandoned in the early stages of their lives. These changes in the brain may become relevant in the processing of neurodata related to health or psychology.  
The reliability of inferences based on neurodata is also a subject of debate and scrutiny within the scientific community. Some researchers have expressed concern about how neurodata is collected, evaluated, and interpreted. Two of these concerns are related to the use of inadequate or incorrect statistical methods, which lead to false positives in different contexts, and a growing concern about the replicability of neuroscientific findings. It is also important to consider the uncertainties associated with certain data collection methods, for example, those based on sensors that incorporate very innovative technologies such as those that allow for the remote collection of neurodata.
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
Even when laboratory test results indicate accuracy levels that would satisfy the requirements of a real-world use case, it is necessary to consider that “studies under laboratory conditions always have limitations in their general applicability and accuracy; they are probabilistic, decoding brain activity through the use of sophisticated statistical algorithms that are not always precise.”  
While neurotechnologies are still being developed across all fields, those responsible for neurodata treatments must consider the intrinsic limitations of accuracy of such treatments. Ensuring the accuracy of neurodata is vital, not only for scientific validity but also to mitigate ethical considerations related to potential misunderstandings or misuse of information collected from the brain.  
This is also closely related to the principle of necessity, which implies “the need for a combined and fact-based assessment of the effectiveness of the measure for the intended purpose and whether it is less intrusive compared to other options to achieve the same goal.” When evaluating effectiveness, the treatment of neurodata must be essential to achieving the intended objective, addressing the issue more appropriately than other alternatives. However, convincingly supporting this assertion can be a significant challenge in many use cases, given the aforementioned accuracy limitations.  
d. Transparency  
According to the GDPR, the processing of personal data must be transparent. This means that data controllers must explain the data processing, including the data collected, and the possible consequences for the data subjects in the clearest and most concise manner possible.  
When neurotechnologies are involved in the processing of personal data, individuals do not have direct control over the information disclosed due to the intrinsic and involuntary nature of neurodata and may not fully understand the potential implications of such data processing.  
In processing activities involving minors, transparency may be even more difficult to achieve. If explaining the processing of neurodata to adults who are not experts in neuroscience can be complex, explaining it to children or younger individuals may be even more challenging given the need to simplify while still providing an accurate description of the processing. This could easily be observed in the application domains of education or entertainment.  
e. Loyalty  
In accordance with the GDPR, personal data must be processed in a manner that data subjects would reasonably expect and not used in a way that has unjustified adverse effects on them, including discrimination or violation of other fundamental rights and freedoms.  
With the adoption of neurotechnologies and the processing of neurodata, new risks of discrimination may arise. Discrimination may occur, for example, if devices are used that have not been tested on a wide variety of people. This can lead to biased and incomplete datasets. For instance, female and male brains exhibit different structures and neuronal activity. AI is used as a tool to discover patterns and decode brain activities. If a tool is trained exclusively on a group defined by a characteristic, it may not correctly recognize the patterns or the correct activity of individuals who do not share that characteristic (for example, age, gender, or ethnic origin).  
It is important to consider the risks associated with biased data or AI models when using neurodata in education and healthcare. In these domains, the goal is to make evidence-based decisions that can, for example, optimize learning outcomes or select the appropriate therapy. However, if the data used to train AI models is biased, it can lead to unfair outcomes for individuals, which goes against the principle of loyalty. Therefore, it is important to ensure that those developing neurotechnologies guarantee that the individuals considered during the development of such neurotechnologies are representative of the target users.  
5. Future Developments  
Advances in neurotechnology seem to expand the boundaries of innovation beyond current application domains. At the same time, they raise serious concerns about respect for human dignity and agency, mental integrity, non-discrimination, privacy, and data protection. Neurotechnologies reveal details of the brain and, therefore, of the most intimate elements of what constitutes us as human beings.  
Neurotechnological development will extend beyond the motor functions of the brain. Currently, other essential functions are being targeted, with a particular emphasis on...
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
in those dedicated to memory. Neurotechnologies could decode, modulate, and store information related to the complex neural networks responsible for memory processes, which would lead to the possibility of preserving human memory in an external storage device. However, these advances should also lead us to question whether achieving superhuman performances is a desirable goal from the perspective of fundamental rights.  
Another concerning example of the future development of neurotechnology is multisensory devices, for instance, in the gaming industry. The simultaneous collection of data from the heart, skin, muscles, eyes, and brain of the user, combined with head-mounted displays or augmented and virtual reality devices, will provide new forms of interactivity and real-time control by enhancing the human mind. These new technologies will also be able to make quantifiable inferences about factors such as stress, fatigue, cognitive workload, and concentration. A prototype of this technology is already capable of allowing a user to fly a drone solely through neurodata by repurposing inactive muscles for extended and enhanced interactivity. However, we cannot help but think about the potential uses of these techniques in the fields of defense and law enforcement, for example.  
These developments pose obvious threats and risks to data protection. The vast collection of data carried out by neurotechnologies, along with the increasing dissemination of such neurotechnologies, anticipates the creation of massive databases of neurodata. This accumulation of personal data, given its sensitivity, represents a serious risk to the protection of our personal data and, more broadly, to the respect for our private life and other fundamental rights. It also represents a potential interest for cybercriminals, as the volume and sensitivity of this information could make it an attractive target. The protection of the confidentiality and integrity of brain information must be a priority.  
6. Conclusion  
The treatment of neurodata, a form of processing personal data, promises new ways of interacting with the physical and digital world, enhancing human capabilities and experiences.  
Neurotechnologies, which were previously limited to healthcare or security, are now sold directly to consumers, which represents a significant change in accessibility, but also in potential harms. This accessibility, along with the power of Artificial Intelligence to combine data from various sources, is paving the way to uncover patterns or trends in the data that these neurotechnologies collect and process.  
This document has analyzed how different types of neurodata processing enable different use cases, both in the present and in the future. Additionally, some high-level considerations have been provided on how certain uses of neurodata may substantially interfere with fundamental rights and freedoms and jeopardize the fundamental right to human dignity.  
Neurotechnologies deal with human brain activity, where our most intimate thoughts and feelings reside. They raise crucial questions from a philosophical, ethical, and legal perspective, "Understanding, treating, and enhancing the human brain and mind is one of the great scientific challenges of our time. Achieving these goals in a way that preserves justice, safeguards fundamental rights, and human dignity is the corresponding task of ethics and law."  
Before moving forward, it is crucial to conduct an in-depth analysis of neurodata and assess the impact of its processing on fundamental rights, including the need to create new human rights, namely, neurorights.  
"The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of the Human Being with regard to the Applications of Biology and Medicine (Oviedo Convention) of the Council of Europe offers an ideal platform and normative substrate for the protection and promotion of neurorights. Given its focus on prohibiting the misuse of innovations in biomedicine, protecting the dignity and identity of all human beings, and ensuring respect for their integrity and fundamental freedoms, the Convention is well-positioned to enshrine neurorights through ad hoc protocols or to serve as a basis for future instruments."  
In any case, as already noted, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union expressly recognizes the fundamental right to mental integrity (Article 3), as one of the expressions of the fundamental right to human dignity (Article 1), which is also the foundation of the right to privacy and the protection of personal data (respectively, Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter).
TechDispatch on Neurodata  
7. Recommended Readings  
• Rashid, M., Sulaiman, N., PP Abdul Majeed, A., Musa, R. M., Ab Nasir, A. F., Bari, B. S., & Khatun, S. (2020). Current status, challenges, and possible solutions of EEG-based brain-computer interface: a comprehensive review. Frontiers in neurorobotics, 14, 515104. https://doi.org/10.3389/fnbot.2020.00025  
• Unveiling the neurotechnology landscape. Scientific advancements innovations and major trends. (2023). In UNESCO eBooks. https://doi.org/10.54678/ocbm4164  
• Information Commissioner’s Office (2023). ICO tech futures: neurotechnology. https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/research-reports-impact-and-evaluation/research-and-reports/technology-and-innovation/ico-tech-futures-neurotechnology  
• Ienca M, Andorno R. Towards new human rights in the age of neuroscience and neurotechnology. Life Sci Soc Policy. 2017 Dec;13(1):5. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40504-017-0050-1  
• Australian Human Rights Commission (2024). Protecting Cognition: Background Paper on Human Rights and Neurotechnology. https://humanrights.gov.au/our-work/technology-and-human-rights/publications/protecting-cognition-background-paper  

Endnotes  
1. Lefaucheur, J.-P., André-Obadia, N., Antal, A., Ayache, S. S., Baeken, C., Benninger, D. H., & De Ridder, D. (2014). Evidence-based guidelines on the therapeutic use of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). Clin Neurophysiol, 125(11), pp. 2150-2206.  
2. Salin-Pascual, (2015). Optogenetics: light as a tool for the study of brain function in sleep-wake mechanisms and eating behavior. Mexican Journal of Neurocienicas. 16(3), pp. 39-51.  
3. National Institute of Deafness and other Communication Disorder  
4. NielsenIQ https://nielseniq.com states that “it helps you understand the impact of the marketing asset on the brain by directly measuring emotional motivation, memory, and attention brain systems” and that “our patented approach measures unconscious associations with key messages and brands. Without asking questions, we reveal how well your content distinctively activates your brand and how strongly it is leveraging communication goals.”  
5. Mansor, Aida Azlina Bt. and Salmi Mohd Isa. “Fundamentals of neuromarketing: What is it all about?” Neuroscience Research Notes (2020) https://doi.org/10.31117/neuroscirn.v3i4.58  
6. Ienca, M., & Haselager, P. (2016). Hacking the Brain: brain-computer interfacing technology and the ethics of neurosecurity. Ethics Inf Technol, 18(2), pp. 117-129.  
7. Ramos, K. M., et Al. (2019). The NIH BRAIN Initiative: Integrating Neuroethics and Neuroscience. Neuron, 101(3), pp. 394-398.  
8. Wang, L. (2017). Mu-ming Poo: China Brain Project and the future of Chinese neuroscience. National Science Review, 258-263. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/314070218_Mu-ming_Poo_China_Brain_Project_and_Future_of_Chinese_Neuroscience [Accessed: 10 January 2024].  
9. See Human Brain Project. (2013). https://www.humanbrainproject.eu/en/ [Accessed: 10 January 2024].  
10. Eaton, M. L., & Illes, J. (2007). Commercialising cognitive neurotechnology-the ethical terrain. Nature Biotechnology, 25(4), pp. 393-397.  
11. OECD Recommendation on Responsible Innovation in Neurotechnology - OECD [Accessed: 10 January 2024].  
12. Kuno, N., (2016). Nanotechnology comes to life with needle-based human interface devices. News Center Latam.  
13. Lucero, B., & Muñoz-Quezada, M. T. (2014). Neural interface systems and their development in neurosciences: systematic literature review about its application in people with paralysis. Journal Psychological Sciences, 8(2).  
14. Gialopsou, A. et al. Improved spatio-temporal measurements of visually evoked fields using optically-pumped magnetometers. Scientific Reports, 11(1), 22412.  
15. Liao, K. et al. (2024). Exploring the Intersection of Brain–Computer Interfaces and Quantum Sensing: A Review of Research Progress and Future Trends. Advanced Quantum Technologies, 7(1), 2300185.  
16. Ienca M, Andorno R. Towards new human rights in the age of neuroscience and neurotechnology. Life Sci Soc Policy. 2017 Dec;13(1):5. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40504-017-0050-1  
17. fador M. Ienca, Neurotechnology and neurorights - Privacy’s last frontier, 16 November 2023.  
18. Yuste, Rafael, Sara Goering, Blaise Agüera Y. Arcas, Guoqiang Bi, Jose M. Carmena, Adrian Carter, Joseph J. Fins et al. “Four ethical priorities for neurotechnologies and AI.” Nature 551, no. 7679
(2017): 159-163.  
19. Hertz, N. Neurorights – Do we Need New Human Rights? A Reconsideration of the Right to Freedom of Thought. Neuroethics 16, 5 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s12152-022-09511-0  
20. Borbón, Diego and Jorge Alberto Ramírez-Gómez. “Between politics and scholarship: the (un)settled debate over neurorights.” Frontiers in Political Science (2024) https://doi.org/10.3389/fpos.2024.1335561  
21. Gilbert, F., & Russo, I. (2024). Neurorights: The Land of Speculative Ethics and Alarming Claims? AJOB Neuroscience, 15(2), 113–115. https://doi.org/10.1080/21507740.2024.2328244  
22. J. Klonovs, C. K. Petersen, H. Olesen and A. Hammershoj, “ID Proof on the Go: Development of a Mobile EEG-Based Biometric Authentication System,” in IEEE Vehicular Technology Magazine, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 81-89, March 2013, doi: 10.1109/MVT.2012.2234056  
23. T. Nakamura, V. Goverdovsky and D. P. Mandic, “In-Ear EEG Biometrics for Feasible and Readily Collectable Real-World Person Authentication,” in IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 648-661, March 2018, doi: 10.1109/TIFS.2017.2763124  
24. Finn ES, Shen X, Scheinost D, Rosenberg MD, Huang J, Chun MM, Papademetris X, Constable RT. Functional connectome fingerprinting: identifying individuals using patterns of brain connectivity. Nat Neurosci. 2015 Nov;18(11):1664-71. doi: 10.1038/nn.4135. Epub 2015 Oct 12. PMID: 26457551; PMCID: PMC5008686.  
25. F.D’Auria, Brain fingerprint. Quel codice a barre che rende unico il nostro cervello, https://ilbolive.unipd.it/it/news/brain-fingerprint-codice-barre-che-rende-unico  
26. UNESCO International Bioethics Committee. Report of the International Bioethics Committee of UNESCO (IBC) on the Ethical Issues of Neurotechnology Dec. 2021.  
27. León Declaration on European neurotechnology: A human centric and rights-oriented approach https://spanish-presidency.consilium.europa.eu/media/o4rh53jr/le%C3%B3n-declaration.pdf  
28. The Inter-American Juridical Committee (CJI) is one of the main bodies of the Organization of American States (OAS). The Committee serves the Organization as an advisory body on legal matters to promote the progressive development and codification of international law and to study the possibility of standardizing legislation across all countries in the Hemisphere. Declaration of the Inter-American Juridical Committee on Neurosciences, Neurotechnologies, and Human Rights: new legal challenges for the Americas https://www.oas.org/en/sla/iajc/docs/CJI-DEC_01_XCIX-O-21_ENG.pdf  
29. OECD. Recommendation of the Council on Responsible Innovation in Neurotechnology. Retrieved from: https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/instruments/OECD-LEGAL-0457 [Accessed: 10 January 2024].  
30. Official Journal of The Republic of Chile Ministry of the Interior and Public Security Laws, Regulations, Decrees And Resolutions Of General Order, Law No. 21.383 Modifies The Fundamental Charter, To Establish Scientific and Technological Development at the Service of People https://static1.square-space.com/static/60e5c0c4c4f37276f4d458cf/t/6182c0a561dfa17d0ca34888/1635958949324/English+translation.pdf [Accessed: 10 January 2024].  
31. ibídem.  
32. Joshi, A., Manik, R. K., Kumar, P., Roy, S., Jain, D., & Sarkar, P. (2022). Brain Fingerprinting: The New Era of Truth and Lie Detection. BRAIN, 54(02).  
33. Farwell LA. Brain fingerprinting: a comprehensive tutorial review of detection of concealed information.
**Translation of Legal Document Text from Spanish to English**

mation with event-related brain potentials. Cogn Neurodyn. 2012 Apr;6(2):115-54. doi: 10.1007/s11571-012-9192-2. Epub 2012 Feb 17. PMID: 23542949; PMCID: PMC3311838.  
34. Baghel, N., Singh, D., Dutta, M. K., Burget, R., & Myska, V. (2020, July). Truth identification from EEG signal by using convolution neural network: lie detection. In 2020 43rd International Conference on Telecommunications and Signal Processing (TSP) (pp. 550-553). IEEE.  
35. MIT Technology Review. Lie detectors have always been suspect. AI has made the problem worse. March 12, 2020 https://www.technologyreview.com/2020/03/13/905323/ai-lie-detectors-polygraph-silent-talker-iborderctrl-converus-neuroid  
36. Board on Behavioral, Cognitive, and Sensory Sciences and Education (BCSSE) and Committee on National Statistics (CNSTAT) (March 19, 2013). The Polygraph and Lie Detection. National Research Council. doi:10.17226/10420. ISBN 978-0-309-26392-4. Archived from the original on November 11, 2023. Retrieved November 11, 2023.  
37. Cabitza, F., Campagner, A., & Mattioli, M. (2022). The unbearable (technical) unreliability of automated facial emotion recognition. Big Data & Society, 9(2). https://doi.org/10.1177/20539517221129549  
38. Sauseng, P., & Klimesch, W. (2008). What does phase information of oscillatory brain activity tell us about cognitive processes?. Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews, 32(5), 1001-1013.  
39. Horvath, A., Szucs, A., Csukly, G., Sakovics, A., Stefanics, G., & Kamondi, A. (2018). EEG and ERP biomarkers of Alzheimer’s disease: a critical review. Frontiers in bioscience (Landmark edition), 23, 183-220.  
40. Gonzalez-Carabarin, L., Castellanos-Alvarado, E. A., Castro-Garcia, P., & Garcia-Ramirez, M. A. (2021). Machine Learning for personalised stress detection: Inter-individual variability of EEG-ECG markers for acute-stress response. Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine, 209, 106314.  
41. Tawhid, M. N. A., Siuly, S., & Wang, H. (2020). Diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder from EEG using a time–frequency spectrogram image-based approach. Electronics Letters, 56(25), 1372-1375.  
42. Ye, S., Wang, M., Yang, Q., Dong, H., & Dong, G. H. (2022). Predicting the severity of internet gaming disorder with resting-state brain features: A multi-voxel pattern analysis. Journal of Affective Disorders, 318, 113-122.  
43. Benbadis, S. R., Beniczky, S., Bertram, E., MacIver, S., & Moshé, S. L. (2020). The role of EEG in patients with suspected epilepsy. Epileptic Disorders, 22(2), 143-155.  
44. Ko, L. W., Komarov, O., Hairston, W. D., Jung, T. P., & Lin, C. T. (2017). Sustained attention in real classroom settings: An EEG study. Frontiers in human neuroscience, 11, 388.  
45. Poulsen, A. T., Kamronn, S., Dmochowski, J., Parra, L. C., & Hansen, L. K. (2017). EEG in the classroom: Synchronised neural recordings during video presentation. Scientific reports, 7(1), 43916.  
46. Sheikholeslami, C., Yuan, H., He, E. J., Bai, X., Yang, L., & He, B. (2007, August). A high-resolution EEG study of dynamic brain activity during video game play. In 2007 29th Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (pp. 2489-2491). IEEE.  
47. Mondéjar, T., Hervás, R., Johnson, E., Gutierrez, C., & Latorre, J. M. (2016). Correlation between videogame mechanics and executive functions through EEG analysis. Journal of biomedical informatics, 63, 131-140.  
48. Filipović-Grčić, L., & Derke, F. (2023). Neuroimaging and Art: A Short Introduction to Neuroimaging Techniques Employed in Neuroaesthetics Research. Mind, Brain and Education, 13-20.  
49. Bazzani, A., Ravaioli, S., Trieste, L., Faraguna, U., & Turchetti, G. (2020). Is EEG suitable for marketing research? A systematic review. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 14, 594566.  
25
50. Lin, M. H. J., Cross, S. N., Jones, W. J., & Childers, T. L. (2018). Applying EEG in consumer neuroscience. European Journal of Marketing, 52(1/2), 66-91.  
51. Alsharif, A. H., Salleh, N. Z. M., Abdullah, M., Khraiwish, A., & Ashaari, A. (2023). Neuromarketing Tools Used in the Marketing Mix: A Systematic Literature and Future Research Agenda. SAGE Open, 13(1), 21582440231156563.  
52. Neuromarketing for Consumer Insights | Bitbrain  
53. EEG in neuromarketing | Neurensics Neuro Market Research Company  
54. ICO. ICO tech futures: neurotechnology - Sector scenarios. Retrieved from: https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/research-reports-impact-and-evaluation/research-and-reports/technology-and-innovation/ico-tech-futures-neurotechnology/sector-scenarios/ [Accessed: 9 May 2024].  
55. McDonnell, A. S., Simmons, T. G., Erickson, G. G., Lohani, M., Cooper, J. M., & Strayer, D. L. (2023). This is your brain on autopilot: Neural indices of driver workload and engagement during partial vehicle automation. Human factors, 65(7), 1435-1450.  
56. Zhu, M., Chen, J., Li, H., Liang, F., Han, L., & Zhang, Z. (2021). Vehicle driver drowsiness detection method using wearable EEG based on convolution neural network. Neural computing and applications, 33(20), 13965-13980.  
57. Wolpaw, J. R., McFarland, D. J., Neat, G. W., & Forneris, C. A. (1991). An EEG-based brain-computer interface for cursor control. Electroencephalography and clinical neurophysiology, 78(3), 252-259.  
58. Zhuang, W., Shen, Y., Li, L., Gao, C., & Dai, D. (2020). A brain-computer interface system for smart home control based on single trial motor imagery EEG. International Journal of Sensor Networks, 34(4), 214-225.  
59. Verwoert, M. et al. (2022). Dataset of speech production in intracranial electroencephalography. Scientific data, 9(1), 434.  
60. Al-Qaysi, Z. T., Zaidan, B. B., Zaidan, A. A., & Suzani, M. S. (2018). A review of disability EEG based wheelchair control system: Coherent taxonomy, open challenges and recommendations. Computer methods and programs in biomedicine, 164, 221-237.  
61. Kerous, B., Skola, F., & Liarokapis, F. (2018). EEG-based BCI and video games: a progress report. Virtual Reality, 22, 119-135.  
62. Huang, Z., & Wang, M. (2021). A review of electroencephalogram signal processing methods for brain-controlled robots. Cognitive Robotics, 1, 111-124.  
63. Lee, D. H., Jeong, J. H., Ahn, H. J., & Lee, S. W. (2021). Design of an EEG-based drone swarm control system using endogenous BCI paradigms. In 2021 9th International Winter Conference on Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) (pp. 1-5). IEEE.  
64. Enriquez-Geppert, S., Huster, R. J., & Herrmann, C. S. (2017). EEG-neurofeedback as a tool to modulate cognition and behavior: a review tutorial. Frontiers in human neuroscience, 11, 51.  
65. Viviani, G., & Vallesi, A. (2021). EEG-neurofeedback and executive function enhancement in healthy adults: A systematic review. Psychophysiology, 58(9), e13874.  
66. A Chinese primary school suspends the trial of a device that monitors students' brain waves. https://www.theguardian.com/world/2019/nov/01/chinese-primary-school-halts-trial-of-device-that-monitors-pupils-brainwaves  
67. Portable EEG for assessing attention in educational settings: A scoping review. https://osf.io/ckbmw/download
68. Yanxue, Li & Li, Shanshan & Gao, Weijun & Xu, Wenya & Xu, Yang & Wang, Jian. (2022). Exploring the effects of indoor temperature on college students’ physiological responses, cognitive performance and a concentration index derived from EEG signals. Developments in the Built Environment. 12. 100095. 10.1016/j.dibe.2022.100095. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2666165922000291  
69. Quadriplegic Pilots Race for Gold in Cybathlon Brain Race https://spectrum.ieee.org/quadriplegic-pilots-race-for-gold-in-cybathlon-brain-race  
70. This Gamer Turned EEG Tech Into a Game Controller https://spectrum.ieee.org/elden-ring-hands-free-controller  
71. Home-Based EEG Neurofeedback Intervention for the Management of Chronic Pain https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpain.2022.855493/full  
72. Duke, Gloria & Yotter, Courtney & Sharifian, Beverly & Duke, Gary & Petersen, Sandra. (2023). The effectiveness of microcurrent neurofeedback on depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and quality of life. Journal of the American Association of Nurse Practitioners. 36. 10.1097/JXX.0000000000000945. https://journals.lww.com/jaanp/fulltext/9900/the_effectiveness_of_microcurrent_neurofeedback_on.164.aspx  
73. EDPS Opinion 44/2023 on the Proposal for Artificial Intelligence Act in the light of legislative developments, issued on 23 October 2023, paragraphs 7 and 8.  
74. EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 5/2021 on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act), issued on 18 June 2021.  
75. EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 5/2021 on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act), issued on 18 June 2021, paragraph 35.  
76. REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence and amending Regulations (EC) No 300/2008, (EU) No 167/2013, (EU) No 168/2013, (EU) 2018/858, (EU) 2018/1139 and (EU) 2019/2144 and Directives 2014/90/EU, (EU) 2016/797 and (EU) 2020/1828 (Artificial Intelligence Act), as approved and published by the European Council on 21 May 2024. https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/PE-24-2024-INIT/en/pdf  
77. EDPS. Necessity & Proportionality. https://www.edps.europa.eu/data-protection/our-work/subjects/necessity-proportionality_en  
78. ibídem.  
79. Ienca, M., Fins, J.J., Jox, R.J. et al. Towards a Governance Framework for Brain Data. Neuroethics 15, 20 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/s12152-022-09498-8  
80. R. A. Poldrack, Inferring Mental States from Neuroimaging Data: From Reverse Inference to Large-Scale Decoding, Neuron, Volume 72, Issue 5, 2011, Pages 692-697, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2011.11.001.  
81. EDPS Assessing the necessity of measures that limit the fundamental right to the protection of personal data: A Toolkit “Necessity implies the need for a combined, fact-based assessment of the effectiveness of the measure for the objective pursued and of whether it is less intrusive compared to other options for achieving the same goal”  
82. Kolb B., Gibb R., Monitoring EditBrain Plasticity and Behaviour in the Developing Brain, J Can Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2011 Nov; 20(4): 265–276.  
27
83. Peters R. Aging and the brain. Postgrad Med J. 2006 Feb; 82(964): 84–88. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.2005.036665  
84. Bethlehem, R.A.I., Seidlitz, J., White, S.R. et al. Brain charts for the human lifespan. Nature 604, 525–533 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-022-04554-y  
85. Distribution of video gamers in the United States in 2022, by age group https://www.statista.com/statistics/189582/age-of-us-video-game-players/  
86. National Scientific Council on the Developing Child, The Science of Neglect: The Persistent Absence of Responsive Care Disrupts the Developing Brain https://harvardcenter.wpenginepowered.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/The-Science-of-Neglect-The-Persistent-Absence-of-Responsive-Care-Disrupts-the-Developing-Brain.pdf  
87. Vul E, Harris C, Winkielman P, Pashler H. Puzzlingly High Correlations in fMRI Studies of Emotion, Personality, and Social Cognition. Perspect Psychol Sci. 2009 May;4(3):274-90. doi: 10.1111/j.1745-6924.2009.01125.x. PMID: 26158964.  
88. Button, K., Ioannidis, J., Mokrysz, C. et al. Power failure: why small sample size undermines the reliability of neuroscience. Nat Rev Neurosci 14, 365–376 (2013). https://doi.org/10.1038/nrn3475  
89. Liao, K. et al. (2024). Exploring the Intersection of Brain–Computer Interfaces and Quantum Sensing: A Review of Research Progress and Future Trends. Advanced Quantum Technologies, 7(1), 2300185.  
90. Regulatory Horizons Council: the regulation of neurotechnology. An independent report to government from the Regulatory Horizons Council about the safe and rapid development of neurotechnology. https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/regulatory-horizons-council-the-regulation-of-neurotechnology  
91. Rainey S., McGilivray K., Akitoye S., et al. Is the European Data Protection Regulation sufficient to deal with emerging data concerns relating to neurotechnology?. J Law Biosci. 7,1 (2020) doi: 10.1093/jlb/lsaa051.  
92. Goering, S., Klein, E., Specker Sullivan, L. et al. Recommendations for Responsible Development and Application of Neurotechnologies. Neuroethics 14, 365–386 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/s12152-021-09468-6  
93. B. Goldman, Two minds. The cognitive differences between men and women, Stanford medicine magazine spring 2017.  
94. K. S. Gaudry, H. Ayaz, et al., Projections and the Potential Societal Impact of the Future of Neurotechnologies, Front Neurosci. 2021, doi: 10.3389/fnins.2021.658930  
95. T. Gruber, Ted talk April 2017, How AI can enhance our memory, work and social lives https://www.ted.com/talks/tom_gruber_how_ai_can_enhance_our_memory_work_and_social_lives?hasSummary=true  
96. C. Russomanno, ted talk April 2023, A powerful new neurotech tool for augmenting your mind https://www.ted.com/talks/conor_russomanno_a_powerful_new_neurotech_tool_for_augmenting_your_mind/transcript?hasSummary=true  
97. Council of Europe report ‘Common Human Rights challenges raised by different applications of neurotechnologies in the biomedical field’, October 2021, page 74. https://rm.coe.int/report-final-en/1680a429f3  

This publication is a brief report produced by the Technology and Privacy Unit of the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS). It aims to provide a factual description of an emerging technology and discuss its possible impacts on privacy and the protection of personal data. The contents of this publication do not imply a policy position of the EDPS.  
Issue Authors: Arturo Brazal, Francesca Pesce, Marta Beltrán and Xabier Lareo  
Editors: Luis de Salvador, Luis Velasco, Massimo Attoresi and Xabier Lareo  
Contact: techmonitoring@edps.europa.eu  
To subscribe or unsubscribe to TechDispatch publications, please send a mail to techmonitoring@edps.europa.eu.  
The data protection notice is online on the EDPS website.  
© European Union, 2024. Except otherwise noted, the reuse of this document is authorised under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0). This means that reuse is allowed provided appropriate credit is given and any changes made are indicated. For any use or reproduction of photos or other material that is not owned by the European Union, permission must be sought directly from the copyright holders.  
edps.europa.eu  
www.aepd.es