THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

April 25, 2022

 

 

 

 

 LfDI expects schools to educate students up to

Summer holidays 2022 Alternatives to the MS 365 cloud service for the

offer school operations

MS 365 will be available to use from the coming school year

Schools to end or whose operation is data protection compliant

to be clearly demonstrated by the responsible schools

 

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

Baden-Wuerttemberg Dr. Stefan Brink will shortly be known on him

Approach schools that use the Microsoft 365 (MS 365) or MS

Teams from vendor Microsoft use them through its legal

Inform and review the use of this online service

ask for a binding schedule for switching to alternatives. as

Bridging until the summer holidays of 2022 is expected

State representatives that teachers and students have alternatives

Tobe offered.

 

The state representative will approach around 40 schools and individually

consider each specific case. When looking for

The state commissioner not only advises the schools on alternatives, but

works together with the Ministry of Education to ensure that they

be able to use alternatives according to needs.

 

The LfDI previously accompanied and advised the Baden-Württemberg Ministry of Education

Württemberg over a long period of time in an intensive and

- 2 -

extensive procedures for the eventual use of MS 365

Schools. For a pilot operation between autumn 2020 and spring 2021

was developed by the Ministry of Education in cooperation with those involved

Service providers and senior officials from Microsoft a functional

restricted configuration that is as data protection compliant as possible

MS 365 selected.

 

Functions of MS 365 that are particularly questionable under data protection law

were switched off or were deactivated as far as possible,

such as the collection of telemetry and diagnostic data.

Furthermore, additional security functions were implemented and

Accounts are only assigned to teachers, not to students.

 

In April 2021, the LfDI informed the Ministry of Education about the

data protection assessment of this pilot project and recommended

due to high data protection risks from using the

Tested version of MS 365 in schools foresee and alternative

promote solutions. It succeeded in the pilot project despite intensive testing

and

Cooperation with

the

stakeholders

Not,

one

to find a privacy-compliant solution. The Ministry of Education resigned

then, in the future, to a data protection-compliant digital

set educational platform.

  

The statement of the LfDI and the results of the test are available since

longer publicly available. This and other information about

Pilot project and the introduction of a data protection-compliant digital

educational platform

are

publicly

accessible

(e.g.

above

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/Suggestion-lfdi-

online/, more information and a summary at

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ms-365-schulen-

notes-further-procedure).

  

The State Commissioner points out that

now too

alternative digital tools will be offered over a longer period of time

period have already been used many times and continue to be successful

be used: As a learning management system, Moodle or

itslearning, which is provided to schools by the Ministry at no additional cost

are offered, are used. The integration of the web

- 3 -

Conference system BigBlueButton is integrated into each, so that too

Video conferences can be held.

 

Schools that believe their use and configuration of

MS 365 meets the legal requirements and the cloud service

want to continue to use, must now justify how they use the

ensure data protection-compliant operation and this according to their

Accountability according to Article 5 paragraph 2 data protection

basic regulation want to clearly prove.

 

 

Further information

Extensive information is available on the LfDI website

School use of Microsoft 365 available:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ms-365-schulen-

hints-further-procedure

 

 

Microsoft 365 (MS 365, formerly: Office 365) is an online or cloud

Service of the provider Microsoft. With it, documents, pictures and

other files are generally online on the provider's computers

stored and e-mails from this managed, received and

Posted.

In the state representative

as part of a

Pilot tested specially configured version of MS 365 for

the

school operation

in

Baden-Wuerttemberg

could

no

data protection-compliant operation can be ensured.

 

 

