Anu Talus appointed Data Protection Ombudsman 


   


Publication date 
27.8.2020
 13.52
| Published in English on 31.8.2020 at 16.26


Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";




 The Finnish Government has today appointed Anu Talus, Doctor of Laws, Data Protection Ombudsman. She will take up her post on 1 November 2020 upon the retirement of incumbent Data Protection Ombudsman Reijo Aarnio. The term of the Data Protection Ombudsman is five years. Talus has served as Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman in the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman since August 2019. In her current position as Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman, Talus primarily resolves matters involving the private sector and cross-border personal data processing. Her previous posts include Senior Adviser, Legislative Affairs and Special EU Adviser in the Ministry of Justice. The Data Protection Ombudsman supervises compliance with data protection legislation and other laws governing the processing of personal data and manages the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman. The tasks of the Data Protection Ombudsman include promoting awareness of the rights and obligations related to personal data processing and issuing opinions on legislative and administrative amendments. The Data Protection Ombudsman cooperates with the data protection authorities of other countries and represents Finland on the European Data Protection Board. ”People increasingly live in the digital realm, and the digitalisation of society is only picking up speed. Data protection plays a key role in our changing world. I believe that international cooperation will be an even more important aspect of the Data Protection Ombudsman’s work in the future”, Talus says. There were 10 applicants for the post of Data Protection Ombudsman. Further information: Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus, anu.talus(at)om.fi, tel. +358 29 566 6766 Ministry of Justice press release (27 August 2020, in Finnish) Government resolutions (in Finnish) Images for the media 












data protection
namings


