 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

June 5, 2020

 
 
 "If I can't find any data on you, you're not creditworthy" -
LfDI warns credit agency
 
All those who have already applied for a loan know the procedure:
Lenders ask credit reporting agencies whether a company
men or a private individual will probably also repay the loan applied for
len will. For this purpose, credit agencies evaluate all the data they have about a company
company or a private individual, and calculate probable
abilities, so-called score values, to their creditworthiness. What rules and variables
Calculations and thus the final evaluations are based on is a
closely guarded trade secret.
However, it is not uncommon for the calculations to be based on outdated or incorrect data.
And also complaints from those affected to correct or delete this data
schen, mostly goes unheard on the part of some credit bureaus.
 
Due to numerous complaints, the state commissioner for data protection checked
and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Baden-Württemberg data collection and
-Evaluation of credit agencies and the resulting calculations
procedure for credit assessments. In doing so, we found that credit rating
divisions are not always based on concrete data available from the respective company
mens were made, but just not available information about it
resulted in the recommended credit limit being rated low. That means: had
the credit agency has no knowledge of company or financial figures,
an only partially positive evaluation was passed on to inquiring third parties
ben - a positive rating ("good") is supposedly too risky in these cases, according to the
information agency in the specific case.
 
The problem with this: The credit line recommended by a credit agency

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

generally follow lenders – the future viability of companies
However, the necessary investments fall by the wayside. In addition, third parties could
get the impression that the assessment
payment is due to past payment arrears by the company
stood.
 
The LfDI makes it clear that an assessment of creditworthiness is only legal
is if this assessment is based on a sufficient and appropriate factual
basis is based. A score based primarily on probability values
based, i.e. H. for its determination the data of "similar" companies and persons
serve as a basis, since no data is available on the specific company
simply inadmissible. “It is unacceptable that companies or individuals
are forced to disclose their data to credit reporting agencies if
otherwise they are threatened with a bad rating," warns LfDI Dr. Stefan Brink. "The Legislative
timation of such reviews under the guise of 'freedom of expression' we enter
resolutely against. Because even if credit bureaus give their 'opinions' about the
spreading the worthiness of companies and people requires a true and
verifiable core of facts. Otherwise stand the economic advancement
and the reputation of irreproachable companies and individuals on the
Game."
 
As part of the LfDI test procedure, an inspector based in Baden-Württemberg
ge credit agency warned for a fee. Also in the future the LfDI in the
make use of its supervisory powers in the cases mentioned.
 
 
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615 541-23.
 
Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at
www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.
 
 

