1/10

936-031219

 Procedure No.: PS/00249/2020

RESOLUTION R/00437/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00249/2020, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Officer to VENU SANZ CHEF, S.L., given the complaint
presented by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 3, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VENU SANZ
CHEF, S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00249/2020

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated January 21, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against VENU SANZ CHEF, S.L. with NIF B54984752 (in
later, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the claimant contracted the services
of the claimed to download weekly menus, discovering days later that
said company has used your personal data full name and surnames and photo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

profile, and information about your cholesterol tests and your Alzheimer's disease.
hypothyroidism to advertise their products, without their prior consent.

SECOND: In view of the reported facts, on March 3, 2020,
transferred from this claim to the one claimed by notific@, and upon expiration of the
period given for without accessing said document, it is reiterated by postal mail on 10
March 2020, being returned for "absent distribution", despite having been sent to
the postal address indicated in the privacy policy of the claimed
responsible for the treatment.

THIRD: On April 4, 2020, the resolution is notified by which the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, agrees to admit this
claim.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow considering

lawful processing of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal; personal data may be kept for longer periods
provided that they are treated exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, purposes of
scientific or historical research or statistical purposes, in accordance with article
89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and
freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the conservation period");

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the

provided for in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

Likewise, in article 32 of the LOPDGDD, the blocking of data is regulated,

establishing the following:

"1. The data controller will be obliged to block the data when

proceed to its rectification or deletion.

2. The blocking of the data consists of the identification and reservation of the same,
adopting technical and organizational measures to prevent their processing, including
its visualization, except for making the data available to the judges and
courts, the Public Prosecutor or the competent Public Administrations, in
particular of the data protection authorities, for the requirement of possible
responsibilities derived from the treatment and only for the prescription period of the
themselves. After this period, the data must be destroyed.

3. Blocked data may not be processed for any purpose other than

of that indicated in the previous section.

4. When for the fulfillment of this obligation, the configuration of the
information system does not allow blocking or requires an adaptation that
implies a disproportionate effort, a secure copy of the
information in such a way as to record digital evidence, or of another nature, that allows
prove the authenticity of the same, the date of the blocking and the non-tampering of the
data during it.

5. The Spanish Agency for Data Protection and the regional authorities
data protection, within the scope of their respective powers, may
set exceptions to the blocking obligation established in this article, in the
assumptions in which, considering the nature of the data or the fact that they refer to
a particularly high number of those affected, their mere conservation, even
blocked, could generate a high risk for the rights of those affected,
as well as in those cases in which the conservation of the blocked data
could imply a disproportionate cost for the data controller.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

III

5/10

In the present case, the personal data of the claimant have been revealed,

making them accessible to third parties without your consent.

Therefore, in accordance with the evidence available in the
At this time, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, it is considered that
from the reported facts, the violation of article 5.1 b) of the RGPD is inferred,
which governs the purpose limitation principle, according to which personal data
will be collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with said purposes, as well as the responsibility
proactive of the data controller to demonstrate compliance.

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum.
or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but significant

active (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers (name, surname) are affected.
two, domicile), according to article 83.2 g), also including health data,
report on the claimant's cholesterol tests, and his Alzheimer's disease
hypothyroidism

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the

Spanish Data Protection Agency,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE against VENU SANZ CHEF, S.L.,
with NIF B54984752, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1 b) of the RGPD, typified
in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, in relation to article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: ORDER VENU SANZ CHEF, S.L., with NIF B54984752, in accordance
with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of the RGPD.

THIRD: APPOINT INSTRUCTOR.1 as instructor and, as secretary,
SECRETARY.1, indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1,
Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection during the
investigation phase, as well as the report of previous Inspection actions.

FIFTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be 3,000 euros (three thousand euros) without prejudice
of what results from the instruction.

SIXTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VENU SANZ CHEF, S.L., with NIF
B54984752, granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the
The same may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event of
that the sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within
of the term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at 2,400 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of the
present procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
which will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 2,400 euros and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the sanction is cumulative to the one
It is appropriate to apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this
acknowledgment of responsibility is revealed within the period
granted to formulate arguments at the opening of the procedure. The pay
volunteer of the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph may be made at any
time prior to resolution. In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both
reductions, the amount of the penalty would be established at 1,800 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the
amounts indicated above, (2,400 or 1,800 euros) must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
the date of the start-up agreement or, where applicable, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the

LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On September 22, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay
SECOND
 
of the sanction in the amount of 1800 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00249/2020, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VENU SANZ CHEF, S.L..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

