
Applications are closed. All places at the counseling are filled.
Due to the extremely high interest of entrepreneurs, on Wednesday, May 24, 2023, the Agency is organizing another consultation entitled "5 years of GDPR application: problems, solutions, penalties and examples of good practice", this time in cooperation with the Croatian Association of Employers , at Radnička cesta 37a, 10000, Zagreb, starting at 10:00 a.m.
This consultation is organized by the Agency and HUP on the occasion of the 5th anniversary of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a legal regulation that is directly applicable in its entirety in the European Union from May 25, 2018, and which marked a turning point in the field of personal data protection and significantly changed the awareness of the importance of personal data protection among business entities and individuals. This consultation is an activity within the framework of the EU project ARC2, which the Agency is implementing with the aim of providing support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in harmonizing business with legal regulations on data protection.
The goal of the General Data Protection Regulation is to protect the personal data of natural persons, provide citizens with control over their personal data and create a high and uniform level of personal data protection in the European Union.
The General Data Protection Regulation determines the rights of individuals and, accordingly, the obligations of entities that process personal data. The general regulation on data protection must be applied by all business entities that collect, store and in any way process personal data of Croatian citizens and citizens from the European Economic Area.
Also, what we especially want to point out on the 5th anniversary of the GDPR: all organizations that process personal data must be familiar with the rights of individuals regarding the processing of their personal data and enable them to exercise their rights.
Numerous supervisory and educational activities carried out by the Agency have clearly shown that the level of compliance with the legislative framework for data protection in the Republic of Croatia is not at a satisfactory level. The Agency continuously provides support primarily to personal data protection officers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises through the EU projects ARC and ARC2.
It is high time that companies, public authorities and all managers/executors of processing understand that the deadline for adaptation has long passed and that after 5 years from the start of the full application of the GDPR, lack of information and ignorance cannot be a justification and an excuse for the violation of fundamental rights Croatian and European citizens.
Furthermore, on this occasion, the Agency would like to point out the key role in the personal data protection system played by data protection officers, who are often the weakest link. In addition to adequate knowledge in the field of personal data protection, employees must have a good knowledge of the business processes of the organization in which they work, continuously educate themselves, and at the same time educate employees in the organization in which they act as employees.
The aim of the organization of this consultation is to provide managers and processors and data protection officers with the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the latest trends and examples of good practice in the field of personal data protection, to share with AZOP experts the problems they face in the application of the GDPR, and with they are supported by solutions that will raise the level of compliance in their organizations to a higher level.
The Agency points out that investment in personal data protection and information security has not been an investment that is necessary and desirable for a long time, but has become an investment that is necessary and necessary for successful business.
GDPR is here to stay, and data protection will become more and more important in the era of big data and artificial intelligence, as we could see with the example of the ban on Chat GPT in Italy, whose use was banned by the Italian supervisory authority for violating the GDPR for data protection.

COUNSELING PROGRAM:
10:00 – 10:10 Introductory speeches
Iva Nappholz, legal advisor for projects and support to branch associations from the Croatian Association of Employers, member of the Advisory Board in the ARC2 project
Igor Vulje, Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data
10:10 – 10:20 Presentation of the ARC2 project
Iva Nappholz, legal advisor for projects and support to branch associations from the Croatian Association of Employers, member of the Advisory Board in the ARC2 project
10:20 a.m. – 11:10 a.m. "Harmonizing business processes with GDPR: what do organizations do most wrong?"
Marko Trošelj, MA, head of the Service for International Data Transfers and Compliance Mechanisms, Personal Data Protection Agency
11:10 a.m. – 12:10 p.m. "Supervisory and investigative activities of AZOP: what you need to know and how to prepare?"
Siniša Kovačić, Head of the Service for Supervision, Investigations, Technologies and Security
12:10 – 13:00 BREAK
13:00 – 14:00 "Penalties for violators of the GDPR and the Act on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation: the practice of AZOP and EU supervisory authorities for data protection"
Antonio Katavić, Senior Advisor Specialist, Agency for the Protection of Personal Data




