1/20

 File No.: PS/00611/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On February 3, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter the claimed party). Notified the agreement of initiation and
After analyzing the allegations presented, on April 1, 2022, the
proposed resolution that is transcribed below:

<<

File number: PS/00611/2021

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated 11/14/2020, it is registered with the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data a document from the claimant stating that:

“A person called Vodafone on 10/27/2020 by telephone and posing as
for him, he bought an Iphone 12 and changed the rates he had contracted. signed a
contract in your name by changing your phone number (***PHONE.1), your email
(***EMAIL.1) and your date of birth (***DATE.1). The contract for the purchase of
terminal included an initial payment of 49 euros, 24 monthly installments of 38.01 euros and a
final payment of 96 euros, all debited to my checking account. Received an SMS from
Vodafone with a link to the new contract that he did not read until 10/29/2020 He attended
to the offices of the Civil Guard in ***LOCALIDAD.1 (Valladolid) to
file the relevant complaint. He called Vodafone and they agreed to send him in a few
hours the recordings of the calls and the signing of the contract made in a
telephone. But they didn't. He called again and was told that they would be sent to him in a few
days. Neither did they. He called again and was told that there were no recordings, that
it was done with an electronic signature and they would call it a fraud. But they didn't call him either.
He called again and was told that there was no fraud and that they had reversed
some changes but the contract is still there, the debt and the permanence”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/20

Attach to your claim, among others, the following documents:

- Copy of the contract between VODAFONE and the claimant dated October 27
of 2020 where your contact address, name, surnames and DNI and
as contact telephone number the number ***PHONE.1 and in the email field
***EMAIL.1 appears and where it also appears in the section "Data of
devices” an Iphone 12 with mobile line number ***PHONE.2.

- Copy of the complaint filed with the Civil Guard.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided with it, the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts,
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

The Data Inspection of the AEPD addressed a request to the accused
informative, requesting that:
Within a maximum period of one month, from the receipt of this letter, you must analyze the
claim and send this Agency the following information:

1. The decision made regarding this claim.
2. In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to

22 of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.

3. Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the

claim.

4. Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents, dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify
its effectiveness.

5. Any other that you consider relevant.

The notification of the aforementioned requirement, according to documentation that works in the
file was accepted on 12/16/2020.

The respondent did not reply within the period granted for this purpose.

THIRD: On 03/29/2021 VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A. refer to this Agency
the following information and statements:

1. That the contract was classified as fraudulent on 11/05/2020,

having issued the corresponding installments.

2. That the claimant is currently registered as a customer in his

systems.

3. That on 10/27/2020 they registered the acceptance of an offer through
of the Teleshopping channel through which a mobile was acquired and some
of the personal data associated with the claimant's account, specifically, date of
birth, email address and contact telephone number.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/20

4. That the fraudulent acquisition of a mobile terminal was made by providing the
personal data of the claimant, acting in accordance with the Privacy Policy
Security for contracting by private clients. That is, they required
to the contracting party name and surnames as well as the DNI.

5. That based on a call from the claimant's wife dated

10/29/2020 is when they became aware of what happened.

6. That in no way could they know at the time of hiring
that the one who made the phone call in which the fraudulent order was made, did not
was the claimant, since he provided all his data correctly: name, surnames and
DNI.

7. That the claimant was a VODAFONE customer.

Provide a copy of the letter sent to the claimant dated 03/23/2021.

It provides a screenshot of its systems where there is a call from the

line ***PHONE.1 accepting the offer associated with the claimant.

Provides screenshots of their systems where there is a call from the
claimant requesting the recording of 10/27/2020 and where the "historical" field is
partially displayed, VODAFONE stating that at the end of said field there is
“We verified that there is no recording of the indicated date 10/27/20”

It provides a screenshot of its systems where the caller appears as the
claimant, “date of creation” states “11/03/2020” and “opening code” states
“Data impersonation”.

It provides a screenshot of its systems associated with the claimant where
appears in the "Service Information" field and within it, in the "Package
contracted” states “There is no package. WITHOUT ACTIVE MOBILE".

FOURTH: On 03/31/2021 the claimant sends this Agency the following
information and manifestations:

1. That you need to access the recording.
2. That the contract was made from another telephone number that was not

headline.

Provides VODAFONE invoice with billing period from 01/22/2021 to
02/21/2021 where there are payment fees related to a mobile terminal associated with the
line ***PHONE.2.

FIFTH: Dated 08/12/2021 VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A. sends to this Agency the
following information and statements:

1. Provide screenshots of your systems already provided previously and
where now it is stated in added text "I confirm that the offer is accepted by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/20

call made from the line ***PHONE.1, which is in the name of another client
A.A.A. ***NIF.1”

2. Provides a screenshot of the Security Policy where it is stated that
will request “HOLDER: Customer service access code or DNI. NOT HOLDER:
Customer service access key.

3. That the recording is not available.

4. Provide a copy of the contract without signature by the claimant. the claimed
states that “[…] a copy of the contract that is automatically generated by the system
once the recording is made to the interested party for the contracting of the services of
Vodafone. In relation to the latter, […], it is not available in the
Vodafone systems, so it cannot be provided in this proceeding.”

SIXTH: On February 3, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in
Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SEVENTH Having notified the aforementioned initiation agreement on 02/07/2022, the party claimed
He presented on 02/21/2022 a brief of allegations in which, after referring to his
integrity to what he calls the "arguments presented" on March 23,
2021 (hereinafter, the "Arguments Brief of March 23") and August 12,
2021 (hereinafter, the "August 12 Arguments Brief"), in summary,
stated that:

1) Acted in accordance with the Security Policy for hiring by
private clients. The First Allegation is devoted to this question.

2) Subsidiarily, in the event that the Agency understands that Vodafone has
infringed article 6.1 of the RGPD, the existence of guilt cannot be assessed
in the infringement imputed to Vodafone and, consequently, cannot be imposed on the
same penalty. The Second Argument is devoted to this question.

3) Subsidiarily to points 1) and 2) above, and in the event that the Agency
understands that there has been an infraction and a sanction must be imposed on Vodafone,
the mitigating circumstances identified in the Allegation must be taken into account
Third.

Based on the exposed arguments, it requests that having presented this document
and all the documents that accompany it and, by virtue of it, consider that the
statements contained therein and, after the appropriate procedures, agree:

1) The dismissal of the file with the consequent filing of the proceedings,
for not having committed any of the imputed infractions.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/20

2) Subsidiarily, that if any sanction is imposed, it is imposed in the amount
minimum, in light of the extenuating circumstances indicated in this document.

EIGHTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
process.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Dated 11/14/2020, it is registered with the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data a document from the complaining party stating that:

“A person called Vodafone on 10/27/2020 by telephone and posing as
for him, he bought an Iphone 12 and changed the rates he had contracted. signed a
contract in your name by changing your phone number (***PHONE.1), your email
(***EMAIL.1) and your date of birth (***DATE.1). The contract for the purchase of
terminal included an initial payment of 49 euros, 24 monthly installments of 38.01 euros and a
final payment of 96 euros, all debited to my checking account. Received an SMS from
Vodafone with a link to the new contract that he did not read until 10/29/2020 He attended
to the offices of the Civil Guard in ***LOCALIDAD.1 (Valladolid) to
file the relevant complaint. He called Vodafone and they agreed to send him in a few
hours the recordings of the calls and the signing of the contract made in a
telephone. But they didn't. He called again and was told that they would be sent to him in a few
days. Neither did they. He called again and was told that there were no recordings, that
it was done with an electronic signature and they would call it a fraud. But they didn't call him either.
He called again and was told that there was no fraud and that they had reversed
some changes but the contract is still there, the debt and the permanence”.

Attach to your claim, among others, the following documents:

- Copy of the contract between VODAFONE and the claimant dated October 27
of 2020 where your contact address, name, surnames and DNI and
as contact telephone number the number ***PHONE.1 and in the email field
***EMAIL.1 appears and where it also appears in the section "Data of
devices” an Iphone 12 with mobile line number ***PHONE.2.

- Copy of the complaint filed with the Civil Guard.

SECOND: VDF acknowledges in its letter of 03/29/2021:

1. That the contract was classified as fraudulent on 11/05/2020,

having issued the corresponding installments.

2. That the claimant is currently registered as a customer in his

systems.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/20

3. That on 10/27/2020 they registered the acceptance of an offer through
of the Teleshopping channel through which a mobile was acquired and some
of the personal data associated with the claimant's account, specifically, date of
birth, email address and contact telephone number.

4. That the fraudulent acquisition of a mobile terminal was made by providing the
personal data of the claimant, acting in accordance with the Privacy Policy
Security for contracting by private clients. That is, they required
to the contracting party name and surnames as well as the DNI.

5. That based on a call from the claimant's wife dated

10/29/2020 is when they became aware of what happened.

6. That the claimant was a VODAFONE customer.

7. According to a screenshot of their systems, there is a call

from the line ***PHONE.1 accepting the offer associated with the claimant.

THIRD: VDF acknowledges in its letter of 08/12/2021:

1. What is recorded in their information systems in relation to the call
made on 10/27/2020 for the contracting of services “that the offer is accepted
for a call made from the ***TELEPHONE.1 line, which is in the name of another
client A.A.A.***NIF.1”

2. That its Security Policy states that "HOLDER: Password
customer service access or DNI. NON-HOLDER: Customer service access code
client".

3. That their information systems state “that the recording of the interested party
for contracting Vodafone services is not available in the
Vodafone systems, so it cannot be provided in this procedure”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/20

II

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

Before entering to answer the content of the allegations, it is necessary to
some clarifications in relation to the dates regarding what in his writing of
allegations VDF calls "The infraction is caused by the following facts":

In the first place, there is an error regarding the dates of the call of the alleged
offender, the contracting of the acquisition of a mobile device, the change of rates
contracted and the modification of data; as well as the sending of the SMS to the telephone of the
claimant, the filing of his complaint with the Civil Guard and his
communication to VDF of the possible fraudulent action of the presumed fraudster; Y
also of the date in which the facts are classified as fraud. VDF indicates in its
brief of allegations as the year in which they take place the year 2021 when
actually occur in the year 2020.

Secondly, the AEPD makes available to VDF the electronic notification of the
transfer of the claim of the complaining party on 12/15/2020, not on 12/16/2020,
which is the day on which VDF accesses the electronic notification and is understood
notified for administrative purposes, in accordance with the provisions of article 43 of the
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter LPAC), which provides that:

"1. Notifications by electronic means will be made by appearance
at the electronic headquarters of the Administration or Acting Body, through the
single enabled electronic address or through both systems, as available
each Administration or Organism.
For the purposes provided in this article, it is understood by appearance at the headquarters
electronically, access by the interested party or his duly identified representative to the
notification content.
2. Notifications by electronic means shall be understood to have been made in the
moment in which access to its content occurs.
When notification by electronic means is mandatory, or has been
expressly chosen by the interested party, it will be understood as rejected when they have
Ten calendar days have elapsed since the notification was made available without
access to its content.
3. The obligation referred to in article 40.4 shall be deemed fulfilled with the
made available for notification in the electronic headquarters of the Administration or
Acting body or at the unique authorized electronic address.
4. The interested parties will be able to access the notifications from the Access Point
Electronic General of the Administration, which will function as an access portal”.

Thirdly, although VDF's reply brief to the transfer of the file
figure signed on 03/23/2021 the answer is not understood to be made until
the brief is filed in the registry, that is, on 03/29/2021. Although, although both in one
date as another the answer is produced outside the term established for that purpose for
carry it out, the statements of VDF contained in said document were taken into account.
written at the time of dictating the initiation agreement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/20

Fourth, the AEPD makes available to VDF the electronic notification of the
request for information on 07/28/2021, not on 08/02/2021, which is the day on which
VDF agrees to the electronic notification and is understood to have been notified for
administrative, in accordance with article 43 of the LPAC.

Entering to analyze the content of his pleadings brief, as already indicated in the
seventh precedent of this proposal, after referring in its entirety to what
refers to the "arguments presented" on March 23, 2021 (hereinafter,
the “Brief of Arguments of March 23”) and August 12, 2021 (hereinafter, the
"Brief of Arguments of August 12"), in relation to the requirements of
information E/10012/2020 and E/02109/2021; VDF articulates its defense based on the
following allegations:

1) Acted in accordance with the Security Policy for hiring by
private clients. The First Allegation is devoted to this issue.

2) Subsidiarily, in the event that the Agency understands that Vodafone has
infringed article 6.1 of the RGPD, the existence of guilt cannot be assessed
in the infringement imputed to Vodafone and, consequently, cannot be imposed on the
same penalty. The Second Argument is devoted to this issue.

3) Subsidiarily to points 1) and 2) above, and in the event that the Agency
understands that there has been an infraction and a sanction must be imposed on Vodafone,
the mitigating circumstances identified in the Allegation must be taken into account
Third.
Based on the exposed arguments, it requests that having presented this document
and all the documents that accompany it and, by virtue of it, consider that the
statements contained therein and, after the appropriate procedures, agree:

1) The dismissal of the file with the consequent filing of the proceedings,
for not having committed any of the imputed infractions.
2) Subsidiarily, that if any sanction is imposed, it is imposed in the amount
minimum, in light of the extenuating circumstances indicated in this document.

Regarding that VDF “1) Acted in accordance with the Security Policy for
contracting by private clients. To which he dedicates the First Allegation in
based on the following arguments:

- That VDF could in no way know at the time of contracting
that it was being possible to register without the consent of Mr.
Sources. This is so given that Vodafone's security procedure
for private clients was guaranteed, since Mr. Fuentes was a client
already existing in the Vodafone company, the contracting party was requested
all the personal data required to carry out the processing of the
hiring, that is, name, surnames and DNI.

- That VDF at the time of contracting, did have a cause
legitimizing to treat the data of the Complainant, in particular, the execution of
a contract in which the interested party was a party (article 6.1 b) of the RGPD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/20

It should be noted that it is not true, as VDF alleges, that it could in no way
understand or come to know that the person who made the telephone call has given
place to the initiation of this sanctioning procedure was not Mr.
Sources, since in the documentation that VDF provides along with in its writing of
August 12, 2021 it is known that VDF knew that the telephone line from which
made the call did not belong to Mr. Fuentes, but belonged to another client
different, being perfectly accredits the identity of the person who made said
call, alleged fraudster, with name, surnames, DNI and telephone line from the
that the call was made.

Therefore, VDF was able to know from the beginning that the line from which the
The call was not from Mr. Fuentes, or at least suspected, so I shouldn't
have allowed a different person from a different phone line than the
legitimate owner, now a claimant, contracted a new terminal in his name
mobile, and modify some of your personal data; and in addition, VDF issued the
billing corresponding to the acquisition of the terminal to the now claimant. And it to
Although VDF had adequate tools to identify from what
line the call was being made and to whom that line belonged, and therefore
could know from the beginning that the line from which the call was made was not from the
Mr. Fuentes and therefore, that the person who gave the consent was not Mr. Fuentes,
Therefore, VDF did not have the consent or any other basis for
legitimacy to carry out the treatment operations from which the
initiation of this sanctioning procedure.

In accordance with its security policy, VDF could in no case have asked the
person who made the call from a different phone line than the legitimate
holder, now claimant, the data that would be required from the holder of the line and that
supposedly they would have been the ones that the alleged fraudster would have facilitated. But,
under his own security policy, he should have required him to have
provided the customer service access code of the legitimate owner of the line
telephone company with respect to which the operations were being carried out, in such a way that
if the alleged fraudster had not provided said customer service access code
customer should not have been allowed to contract the new terminal, nor the
modification of the personal data of the complaining party, nor would the
bills. This shows that VDF would not have complied with its own policy of
security, having produced a failure in it.

For the reasons stated, the content of this allegation does not distort the facts or
the basis of law contained in the initiation agreement and must be dismissed
this first claim.

Regarding the request made by VDF regarding: “2) Subsidiarily, for the
In the event that the Agency understands that Vodafone has infringed article 6.1 of the
RGPD, the existence of culpability in the infraction imputed to
Vodafone and, consequently, no sanction can be imposed on the same. To
which dedicates the Second Allegation.

Indicate that VDF, after pointing out that it has not acted negligently, therefore
the imposition of any sanction would proceed, transcribes article 28.1 of the Law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/20

40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (hereinafter
LRJSP), which includes the principle of culpability that governs the procedure
administrative sanctioning and brings up the jurisprudence of the TS in relation to the
exculpation and a sentence of the National High Court interpreting article 9 of the
LOPD of 1999, allegedly in relation to cases in which a third party has
accessed, through criminal activities, data of the interested parties guarded by
a person in charge of the treatment, to try to justify that he does not attend the
action of VDF any guilt, neither by way of fraud nor by way of fault.

Alleging VDF that it has acted at all times in compliance with due diligence
that is required of him, not being able to impute any guilt to him, having used the
diligence that was required to identify the applicant for a product or service in
the telephone channel. Referring to what was stated in his First Allegation above, to
prove that requirement.

First, to be exonerated as required by the Court's jurisprudence
Supreme in relation to the acquittal, which VDF brings up in this
allegation, by virtue of which "the invocation of the absence of fault will not suffice, but
that it will be necessary to have used the diligence that was required by the person who claims
its non-existence (among others, the Supreme Court Judgment of January 23,
1998 [RJ 1998\601])”, VDF should have proved that in the present case
acted with due diligence, albeit for the reasons already stated when responding to the
allegation 1, it is not proven in this sanctioning procedure that VDF
has used the diligence that was required of him in relation to the claim that he has
led to its initiation.

Second, we must disagree with the interpretation that VDF makes of the doctrine
contained in the Judgment of the National Court (Chamber of Contentious-
Administrative, Section 1) of February 25, 2010 [JUR 2010/82723]: that in
in relation to cases in which a third party has accessed, through criminal activities,
to data of the interested parties guarded by a person in charge of the treatment, since
there would be no "substantial identity", "in merit of facts, foundations and
substantially the same claims”, according to the settled jurisprudence of the
Supreme Court in relation to the "substantial identity" (for all STS, Chamber
Third Contentious-administrative, Section 6, Judgment of January 16,
2012, Rec. 4907/2011).

In the first place, the sentence cited by VDF differs in the facts since in it
reference is made to a highly technical hacker who, breaking
established security systems access a database and make a copy
of the same, without any action having been carried out by the
entity that suffers the security attack that indicates that said entity has made
negotiations with the hacker that entail provision of services or modification of the
data from the hacked database and made by the entity itself that has been
object of the security breach.

While in the claim that has given rise to the processing of this
sanctioning procedure would involve a third party, a VDF client, who by becoming
go through the claimant, from a telephone line different from that of the claimant, and that
VDF knew that it belonged to a different person (the telephone line from which the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/20

made the call is different from the phone line associated with the complaining party; you
VDF is aware that the telephone line from which the call was made belongs to another
person identified by their name, surnames and DNI) but hires on behalf of the
claimant party the acquisition of a mobile phone terminal, modifies the rates
that the complaining party had contracted and some of his identifying data;
all facts that VDF acknowledges that it knew, and, despite this, processes the request
made by the third party without the consent of the complaining party.

Secondly, the judgment cited by VDF differs in terms of the grounds,
since in this the infraction that would be imputed to the entity presumably
infringing would be a violation of the current article 32 of the RGPD, as it is understood that the
security measures that it had implemented were not adequate.

While VDF is charged with an infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, for having
carried out data processing (hiring a telephone terminal, issuing
of invoices, modification of rates, and certain personal data of the
claimant party) without the consent of the owner thereof, the claimant party.

Thirdly, the judgment cited by VDF differs in terms of the claims,
since what is sought by the appellant in the sentence is the annulment
based on the fact that it has not been specified or specified in the resolutions of the Agency
appealed the security conditions that have not worked to has not been
observed in the case.

While VDF claims in its allegations is the inadmissibility of the imposition
of any sanction agreeing the dismissal of the file with the consequent
file of the actions, for not having committed any of the infractions
imputed, that is, for not having processed the data without the consent of the party
claimant, or because the treatment is protected by some other basis of legitimacy.

In the aforementioned Judgment of the National Court of February 25, 2010, it states that:
Thus, even when article 9 of the LOPD establishes an obligation of result,
consisting of adopting the necessary measures to prevent the data from being
lose, misplace or end up in the hands of third parties, such obligation is not absolute and does not
can cover a case like the one analyzed. In the present case, the result is
consequence of an intrusion activity, not protected by the legal system and
in this illegal sense, from a third party with high computer technical knowledge that
breaking the established security systems accesses the database of
registered users at www.portalatino.com, downloading a copy of it.
And, such facts cannot be imputed to the appellant entity because, otherwise,
would violate the principle of culpability"

For the reasons stated, the content of this allegation does not distort the facts or
the legal basis contained in the initiation agreement, therefore, it must also
dismiss this second claim.

Regarding the third allegation of VDF “3) Subsidiarily to points 1) and 2)
above, and in the event that the Agency understands that there has been an infraction and must
impose a sanction on Vodafone, the circumstances must be taken into account
mitigating factors identified in the Third Allegation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/20

Because it refers to mitigating and aggravating circumstances that are applicable to this
sanctioning procedure is considered more appropriate to respond in the
fourth legal basis of this motion for a resolution containing
such aggravating and mitigating factors.

III

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
proposed resolution of the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what
result of the investigation, it is considered that the exposed facts do not comply with the
established in article 6.1. of the RGPD, for which it could suppose the commission of a
infringement typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

"Infringements of the following provisions shall be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

[ ].»

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious and prescribes after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

"According to the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and the infractions that
entail a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and,
in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.

(…).»

IV

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/20

each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

 "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments

of personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/20

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of

the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In the present case, without prejudice to what results from the investigation, they have taken into account
In particular, consider the following elements.

-

-

The nature and seriousness of the violation, taking into account the purpose of the
treatment operation in question as well as the level of damage and loss
trials they have suffered; in accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.a) of the
RGPD, since the personal data on which the availability has been lost
position (temporarily), affect the remittance of a duplicate invoice with
the personal data of the legitimate owner of the line, to the subscription of a contract
deal for the acquisition of a mobile phone terminal that contained the data
bank notes of its legitimate owner. These facts confirm the nature of the
infraction as very serious since it entails the loss of disposition and
control over personal data.

The intentionality or negligence in the infringement; in accordance with article 83.2.b)
of the RGPD, it should be noted that the degree of responsibility falls within the scope
act of the claimed party and not of third parties, noting that the
SAN -Administrative Contentious Chamber- of May 5, 2021, establishes that:
“On the other hand, regarding the fact that we are faced with the fraud of
a third party, as we said in the SAN of October 3, 2013 (Rec. 54/2012)-: "
Precisely for this reason, it is necessary to ensure that the person who hires is
who really claims to be and appropriate prevention measures must be taken.
to verify the identity of a person whose personal data is
to be object of treatment”, not serving as an excuse that the third party that performs
za fraud has managed to overcome the security policy of the claimed.

- Deny the concurrence of negligent action on the part of VDF equivalent to
would acknowledge that their conduct -by action or omission- has been diligent. Ob-
Obviously, we do not share this perspective of the facts, since it has to be
given evidence of lack of due diligence. It is very illustrative, the SAN of
October 17, 2007 (rec. 63/2006), assuming that they are entities
whose activity involves the continuous processing of customer data, including
states that “…the Supreme Court has understood that there is negligence

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/20

whenever a legal duty of care is disregarded, that is, when the in-
Fractor does not behave with the required diligence. And in the evaluation of the degree
of diligence, the professionalism or not of the subject must be especially weighed.
and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined, when the activity of
the recurring one is of constant and abundant handling of data of a personal nature.
nal must insist on rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the precautions
legal tions in this regard"

- That it is a company whose main activity is linked to trafficking
processing of personal data, in accordance with the provisions of article 76.2.b) of
the LOPDGDD, The development of the business activity carried out by the
claimed requires continuous and large-scale processing of personal data.
end of customers. Being the one claimed positioned as one of the
the largest telecommunications operators in our country.

On the other hand, the following have been taken into consideration, as mitigating factors:

 - Article 83.2.c) RGPD:

 Measures taken by the person responsible to mitigate the damages
suffered by the interested parties:

positive. Namely: Refund of the amounts charged for
installments for the acquisition of the mobile terminal

 - Article 76.2.c) LOPDGDD:

 The benefits obtained as a result of the commission of the
infringement.

Obtaining an economic benefit beyond receiving the payment is ruled out.
price of the cost fixed for the mobile telephone terminal, object of the
fraudulent hiring. –

- Article 76.2.h) LOPDGDD:

The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in
those assumptions in which there are controversies between those and
any interested.

Various telecommunications operators, including
VDF, signed a Protocol with AUTOCONTROL that, without prejudice to
the powers of the AEPD, provides mechanisms for the
private resolution of controversies related to data protection in the
field of contracting and advertising of communications services
electronically, dated September 15, 2017. Protocol whose
effective enforcement should be considered mitigating.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/20

To try to refute the aforementioned aggravating and mitigating factors, VDF dedicates the
allegation 3 of his pleadings brief stating that in his Initiation Agreement, the
Agency alludes to the graduation criteria of the sanction and performs
certain value judgments that are not shared by Vodafone.

Thus, in relation to the nature and seriousness of the infringement, VDF indicates that the
Agency, when categorizing the infraction as very serious, as the
data included in an invoice, does not include in its analysis that the Fraudster already knew
certain data of the Claimant, reason for which he was able to overcome the Security Policy
of Vodafone and that, furthermore, in the present case there is only one affected
(the Claimant).

Likewise, the Agency does not seem to take into consideration that all the
Relevant actions to ensure the security of the account prior to the
notification of the claim by the Agency. Negotiations were carried out
necessary to cancel the installment payment.

Second, in relation to intent or negligence, VDF alleges that the
Agency, to quantify the sanction, does not assess the diligence and speed with which
that my client processed, analyzed and resolved the claim filed by the woman
of Mr. Fuentes.

Regarding the need to adopt “adequate preventive measures”, it alleges
VDF which, since March 14, 2012, acts under the Security Policy for the
Recruitment of Individuals, which has been progressively updated, and whose
The last modification has been implemented on January 4, 2022.

That said Security Policy establishes what type of information must be required
to the client for each requested management; how to proceed in case a user does not
exceeds said Policy, as well as preventive actions in situations of fraud.
And that it is mandatory for all employees and agents of
Vodafone, who are responsible for applying and respecting it.

And that in this sense, in order to prevent similar incidents from occurring,
Vodafone works continuously to improve Security Policies
implemented in the contracting of services and in any other process that
entails possible risks of fraud or irregular actions for our clients.
Likewise, Vodafone is reviewing its internal processes to ensure
that the defined Security Policies are complied with or introduce the changes
necessary when considered pertinent, in various areas of VDF's business.

Regarding the allegation in relation to the classification as very serious of the infraction
It should be noted that VDF points out that it is because the data is affected in a
invoice, but omits the subscription of a contract for the acquisition of a terminal of
mobile telephony that contained the bank details of its legitimate owner, everything that
entails the loss of disposal and control over personal data.

In relation to overcoming the security policy, it should be noted that the
It is produced by a failure in it, since a third party, different from its
owner, overcoming said policy by providing the data that would be required from the owner of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/20

the line and not the data that would be required in case you were not the owner of the line,
as stated in its own security policy.

In relation to the assertion that the Agency in its initiation agreement has not taken
in consideration the pertinent actions carried out by VDF to guarantee the
security of the account prior to notification of the claim by the
Agency, and the necessary steps to cancel the payment in installments, must be
discarded since they have been taken into account as mitigating factors in the agreement of
start by virtue of the provisions of Article 83.2.c) RGPD.

The Agency does not share that VDF had to take 6 days from the time it became aware of
the alleged fraudulent acts until it took action in relation to the
themselves can be considered a diligent and rapid action, since VDF
could have adopted any other decision tending to block the proceedings
allegedly fraudulent before taking the definitive measures.

In relation to the allegation about the existence and content of the security policy
of VDF point out that it has been proven in this proceeding that the
It has not been fulfilled since it has been allowed to exceed it to a
person who was not the owner of a telephone line, providing the data required in the
security policy for a holder.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a violation of Article 6.1
of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, with a fine of €70,000 (seventy
a thousand euros).

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
informs that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this
reduction, the penalty would be established at €56,000 (fifty-six thousand euros) and
its payment will imply the termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction
will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount specified
above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited, must do so
effective by depositing it in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the entity
banking CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause, for
voluntary payment, reduction of the amount of the sanction. Also, you must send the
proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection to proceed to close
The file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/20

By virtue of this, you are notified of the foregoing, and the procedure is made clear to you.
so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your defense and
present the documents and information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with
Article 89.2 of the LPACAP.

BBB
INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

926-260122

ANNEX LIST OF DOCUMENTS WORKING IN THE PROCEDURE.

Transfer of claim to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

 Claim of C.C.C.

 Admission for processing to C.C.C.
 Reply transfer of claim from VODAFONE ESPAÑA S.A.U
 Writ of C.C.C.
 Request additional information from VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.
 Response to the request from VODAFONE ESPAÑA S.A.U.

 Agreement to initiate the opening of a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE

Report previous actions.

SPAIN, S.A.U.
Information of the opening of the procedure to the claimant C.C.C.

 Allegations to the start-up agreement of VODAFONE ESPAÑA S.A.U.

>>

SECOND: On April 19, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 56,000 euros making use of the reduction foreseen in the
motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/20

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00611/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

968-230522
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/20

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

