THE STATE OFFICER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

01/19/2021

 https://bawu.social/@lfdi

LfDI Brink uses and supports social media platform

mastodon

 

Stefan Brink: “Digitization and data protection belong

together. Social media can also be privacy compliant

function."

 

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Information

freedom of Baden-Württemberg Stefan Brink is now using the

Social media platform Mastodon. Users can dem

Follow the state representative at @lfdi@bawu.social.

 

The state representative Stefan Brink: "Digitization and data

protection belong together. We privacy advocates in particular have

ben the task, the population for topics of the digital

To sensitize to change and also use modern ones for this purpose

possibilities of social networks. Social media is a

Part of our awareness and public relations work and will

 

- 2 -

used by us in accordance with data protection regulations. Therefore we from

Twitter switched to Mastodon and for legal reasons

taken a step that is now more socially comprehensible

is pulled. In the Mastodon network we remain in the digital re-

gene exchange with people, without our or the data

of the users into the hands of a commercial company

to give mens that deals with the personal data

power. We would be pleased if as many as possible to data protection

compliant communication platforms - from public

We require this in some places. That's why we go in the year

2021 towards the public authorities in Baden-Württemberg.”

 

For the data protection-compliant operation of the account, the

State Commissioner own Mastodon instance and hosts it

itself. Public authorities from Baden-Württemberg should

tig can set up an account on the bawu.social instance

and above that directly and in accordance with the law with the citizenry

communicate. The instance cannot serve private users

be opened, you can open an account with one of the

enough to create additional Mastodon instances.

 

Unlike Twitter, Mastodon is organized decentrally. It

there are therefore no central servers that all users

measure, but a large number of small servers,

that are networked with each other. The fedi-

verse - a federated network in which various platforms

can connect with each other. Mastodon is part of this

Fediverse.

 

Further information

 

At the beginning of 2020, the state representative Brink will be there

left Twitter. According to judgments of the European

 

- 3 -

Court of Justice and the Federal Administrative Court are under

other authorities when operating a fan page or a

Twitter accounts to be seen as co-responsible as well

the platform operators themselves. They are accountable

and must be able to explain what data is on the account

or the fan page and how they are processed.

That also causes common between the two

a contract pursuant to Article 26 DS-GVO

must be closed, in which the performance of the obligation

by the parties, such as the information requested

towards those affected, is regulated transparently and unambiguously.

Since such contracts are not available in a data protection-compliant form

gene and are not available to this day, so it remains unclear what

happens with data that ends up on Twitter, the country

withdrawn from there.

 

The microblogging platform Mastodon is an alternative to

Twitter. Short messages, called "tweets" on Twitter, are

ate on mastodon "Toots" (German: "Tröts"). The maximal

Message length is 500 characters. pictures and videos

can also be shown here. You can use other

address zer_innen directly with an @ sign and with

Hashtags (#) tag content. The platform is subtle-

ral - basically like an e-mail service. On 12/28/2020

is the state representative on the social media platform in the

Test phase started. The account is now in regular operation.

 

 

 

