1/11

Litigation Chamber

 

Decision on the merits 35/2020 of 30 June 2020

 

 

 

File number: DOS-2019-01240

 

Subject: Reuse of the profile picture available on Facebook

 

 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke

Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Dirk Van Der Kelen and Jelle Stassijns, members;

 

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the

free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the

data protection, hereinafter the "GDPR");

 

Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the

ACL;

 

Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on

December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

 

Considering the documents in the file;

 

 

 

 

.
 .

.
.

.
.

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 2/11

made the following decision regarding:

- Mr. X; hereinafter "the complainant"

 

-

Y; hereinafter "the first defendant"

and

Mr. Z; hereinafter "the second defendant".

 

 

 

1. Facts and procedure

 

1. On February 25, 2019, the complainant filed a complaint with the Data Protection Authority

against the defendants.

 

2. The subject of the complaint relates to the distribution by e-mail addressed to third parties, namely W as well as

volunteers and employees of Y, a screenshot of a profile picture of the complainant

available on Facebook, without his consent. According to the complainant, this profile picture would not be

not freely accessible, given that it enjoys the highest protection through its

settings. The photo would also have been reworked by the second defendant so as to

that only the complainant's face is visible.

 

3. On July 8, 2019, the complaint is declared admissible on the basis of articles 58 and 60 of the LCA, the

complainant is notified under Article 61 of the LCA and the complaint is forwarded to the Chamber

Litigation under article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

 

4. On July 23, 2019, the Litigation Division decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and

article 98 of the LCA, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

 

5. On July 24, 2019, the parties concerned are informed by registered letter of the provisions

as set out in article 95, § 2 as well as in article 98 of the LCA. They are also informed

under Article 99 of the LCA, deadlines for transmitting their conclusions. The deadline

for the receipt of the submissions in response from the defendants had been set for September 6, 2019,

that for the complainant's reply submissions on October 7, 2019.

 

6. On August 6, 2019, the defendants requested a copy of the file (article 95, § 2, 3° of the LCA).

 

7. On August 7, 2019, a copy of the file is sent to the defendants.

 

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 3/11

8. On August 14, 2019, the defendants announced that they would file submissions (article 98, 2° of

the LCA) and ask for an adaptation of the timetable for the conclusions.

 

9. On August 23, 2019, the parties were informed by the Litigation Chamber of the adjusted deadlines for

make conclusions. The latest date for receiving the submissions in response from the defendants was

thus set for September 6, 2019, that for the complainant's reply submissions to the

October 7, 2019 and that for the defendants on November 7, 2019.

 

10. On September 4, 2019, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in response from the defendants.

The defendants state that the second defendant intervened in his capacity as an employee

acting in the name and on behalf of the first defendant. The defendants then demonstrate to the

means of a finding by a bailiff that the photo that is the subject of the complaint is

publicly accessible to everyone and was therefore in no way protected. First of all,

according to the defendants, there would be no treatment because the plaintiff did not demonstrate that the photo

was structured according to determined criteria. In this regard, the defendants refer to the

recital 15 GDPR. Insofar as it would indeed be a treatment, the defendants

invoke legitimate interest as a legal basis (Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR) and refer to this

effect of the judgment of the Court of Sport which imposed on the complainant a ban on attending during

1 year in training, championships or any other competition of any kind

whatever, organized under the sporting authority of the first defendant.

 

11. In the conclusions, the respondents also address the complainant's request to give

following his right to the erasure of data, a request to which the defendants did not react

in accordance with the requirements of Article 12 of the GDPR. The defendants advance as reason

that it does not appear from the plaintiff's request that any reaction was requested. In this

regard, the Litigation Chamber can only note that the lack of reaction from the defendants

to this request is not part of the complaint.

 

12. On October 8, 2019, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in reply from the

complainant. The plaintiff indicates that his complaint was initially against the second defendant but

that he may have got the facts wrong, given that the first defendant asserts

formally that the second defendant acted on his instructions and in no way as

person in his own capacity. The complainant then asserts that he never contested the fact that the

photo was freely accessible and could therefore be viewed and copied by anyone. The object of

the complaint is the distribution of the photo as an appendix to an e-mail. The complainant argues that it is indeed

of data processing by asserting that recital 15 of the GDPR is not included in

regulations. According to the plaintiff, the defendants cannot invoke the legitimate interest

as a legal basis for processing the photo as an attachment to an e-mail because the recipients

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 4/11

of the email could have found the photo themselves by surfing the social networking site

Facebook.

 

13. On October 30, 2019, the Litigation Division received the submissions in reply from the

defendants. They express their wish to have recourse to the possibility of being heard

(article 98, 2° of the LCA). The defendants repeat the elements of the submissions in response and

add that the plaintiff violated article 124 of the law of June 13, 2005 relating to communications

emails because he intentionally became aware of an email that was not addressed to him.

 

14. On April 29, 2020, the parties are informed that the hearing will take place on May 20, 2020.

 

15. On May 27, 2020, the parties are heard by the Litigation Chamber.

 

 

 

2. Legal basis

 

 Data controller

Article 4.7) GDPR

 

For the purposes of these rules, the following terms mean:

[…]

7) "controller": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or

other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the

processing ; where the purposes and means of such processing are determined by Union law

or the law of a Member State, the controller may be designated or the specific criteria

applicable to its designation may be provided for by Union law or by the law of a State

member;

 

 

 

 Lawfulness of processing

Article 6.1 GDPR

 

1. Processing is only lawful if and insofar as at least one of the following conditions is

filled:

[…]

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 5/11

f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller

processing or by a third party, unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms prevail

of the data subject who require protection of personal data, in particular

when the data subject is a child.

 

Point (f) of the first paragraph does not apply to processing carried out by public authorities in

the execution of their missions.

 

 

 

3. Motivation

 

3.1. Data controller

 

16. The Complainant explicitly directs his complaint only to the second Respondent and considers that

the first defendant is not responsible for the use of the photo without his consent or

of sharing it with third parties, given that the first defendant would not have been at the

running.

 

17. The first defendant denies this assertion and demonstrates that the second defendant, in its

as an employee, acted perfectly in the name and on behalf of the first defendant.

The second defendant, as an employee of the first defendant, is responsible for the administration

of its disciplinary and judicial bodies and is therefore designated as "clerk of the Tribunal

Sport".

 

18. The Litigation Division finds that following a judgment by the Sports Court, the plaintiff

was sentenced to “a general ban on attending training, championships or

in any other competition of any nature whatsoever, organized under the sporting authority of Y, and

this for a period of 1 year. This prohibition extends to every place where the competition takes place,

including - but not limited to - [...]".

 

19. With a view to the execution of this ban imposed on the complainant, an e-mail was

sent by the second defendant, on behalf of the first defendant, to the commissioners

athletes of an imminent event determined in W, as well as in "carbon copy" (cc) to the organization

organizer. The first defendant confirms that a photograph of the plaintiff has been attached

in order to allow the recipients of the e-mail to recognize it if the complainant showed up when

even despite the ban on attendance.

 

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 6/11

20. All of these findings lead the Litigation Chamber to conclude that the first

defendant has determined the purposes and means for the execution of the judgment of the Court of

sport since the e-mail containing the attached photo was sent in his name and on his behalf

by the second defendant who only intervened in his capacity as an employee of the first

defendant and, as such, is bound to perform the tasks entrusted to him. The first

defendant must therefore qualify as a controller within the meaning of Article 4(7) of the GDPR.

 

 

3.2. Processing

 

21. Insofar as the defendant argues that the reuse of the profile picture which is freely

available on Facebook would not constitute processing within the meaning of Article 4(2) of the GDPR in

because the complainant did not demonstrate that the photo was structured according to criteria

determined, the Litigation Chamber notes in this regard that Article 2.1 of the GDPR, read

together with recital 15 of the GDPR, provides for an exclusion from the scope

application of the GDPR for files or sets of files as well as their covers,

that are not structured according to specific criteria, but this exception applies

only to manual treatments1. In the present case, however, it is a question of the reuse of a

photo accessible online which is transmitted to specific third parties by means of an e-mail.

 

22. The Litigation Chamber considers that this is therefore indeed processing within the meaning of Article

4.2) of the GDPR2, given that the photo was consulted in an automated way using

certain technologies to then be used and transmitted to third parties.

 

 

3.3. Lawfulness of processing

23. Although the Complainant claims that the photograph complained of enjoyed the highest

protection via its parameters, the defendant demonstrates by means of a report by a bailiff

justice that the photo in question is publicly accessible on the complainant's Facebook page

and that the profile photo is accessible and can be copied without any obstacle. Then the

                                                

1 Recital 15 GDPR. In order to avoid creating a serious risk of circumvention, the protection of natural persons
should be technologically neutral and should not depend on the techniques used. It should apply to
processing of personal data using automated processes as well as manual processing, if the data
of a personal nature are contained or intended to be contained in a file. The folders or sets of folders of
as well as their covers, which are not structured according to determined criteria, should not fall within the scope
application of this Regulation.

2 Article 4.2) of the GDPR: For the purposes of this regulation, the following terms mean: "processing": any operation or any set
operations carried out or not using automated processes and applied to data or sets of data to be
personal character, such as the collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, dissemination or any other form of
provision, reconciliation or interconnection, limitation, erasure or destruction;

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 7/11

complainant asserts in this regard in his rejoinder that "everyone knows that a

profile photo is freely accessible", thus confirming that the photo is in the

public part of Facebook.

 

24. The Litigation Chamber specifies that both the consultation and the use of a photo constitute

processing within the meaning of the GDPR and that this processing is only permitted on the basis of a

of the processing set out in article 6.1 of the GDPR. The fact that the photo has been made freely accessible

by the person concerned does not authorize the free reuse of the photo by

third parties who consult it.

 

25. The GDPR contains a considerable limitation of the possibility of reusing data to

personal character which can be consulted publicly. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes

as well as the principle in force is the following: the fact that a profile photo of a person is

freely available to the public does not mean that others can use it freely. Use

of this photo is only possible if a legal basis exists for this. The defendant invokes

for this purpose its legitimate interest (article 6.1.f) of the GDPR).

 

26. In accordance with Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR and the case law of the Court of Justice of the Union

European Union (hereinafter "the Court"), three cumulative conditions must be met for a

responsible for the processing can validly invoke this basis of lawfulness, "namely,

firstly, the pursuit of a legitimate interest by the controller or by the

third parties to whom the data are communicated, secondly, the necessity of the processing of the

personal data for the fulfillment of the legitimate interest pursued and, thirdly,

the condition that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person concerned by the protection

data do not prevail" (judgment "Rigas"3).

 

27. In other words, in order to be able to invoke the basis of lawfulness of "legitimate interest"

in accordance with Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR, the controller must demonstrate that:

 

-

the interests it pursues with the processing can be recognized as legitimate (the "test

purpose");

the intended processing is necessary to achieve those interests (the “necessity test”); and

the weighing of these interests against the interests, freedoms and fundamental rights of

data subjects weighs in favor of the controller (the "weighting test").

-

-

 

                                                

3 CJEU, 4 May 2017, C-13/16, Valsts policijas Rīgas reģiona pārvaldes Kārtības policijas pārvalde v Rīgas pašvaldības SIA
„Rīgas satiksme”, recital 28. See also CJEU, 11 December 2019, C-708/18, TK v/ Asociaţia de Proprietari bloc M5A-
ScaraA, recital 40.

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 8/11

28. With regard to the first condition (the so-called "finality test"), the Litigation Chamber considers

that the purpose of executing the judgment of the Sports Court can be considered

as a purpose for a legitimate interest. In accordance with recital 47 of the GDPR,

the interest that the defendant was pursuing as controller may in itself be

considered legitimate. The first condition set out in Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR is therefore

filled.

 

29. In order to fulfill the second condition, it must be demonstrated that the processing is necessary for the

achievement of the aims pursued. More specifically, this means asking whether the

same result cannot be achieved with other means, without data processing to

personal nature or without unnecessary substantial processing for the data subjects.

 

30. In this respect, the complainant asserts that it was completely unnecessary to attach the profile photo as an annex

of the e-mail to notify the Sports Court's judgment to the stewards, given

that the latter could also have found the image themselves by consulting the site of

Facebook social network. On the basis of these elements, the Litigation Division finds that the

complainant does not dispute that the stewards do indeed need a photo as

means of identification in order to enable them and the organizer to enforce

the ban imposed on him. The complainant does not object either.

The complainant only disputes that it was useless to attach the profile photo as an appendix to the e-mail.

email sent to the stewards and the organizer and that it has also been reworked

afterwards.

 

31. The Litigation Chamber points out that the operation that the profile photo underwent consisted of

that the other person in the profile picture is no longer visible, so that

only the complainant's image is still visible in the photo. The defendants thus complied with the

principle of data minimization (Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR), given that the image of the other

no one was required for the purpose pursued, that is to say to enforce

ban on attendance.

 

32. In addition, the Litigation Chamber finds that the photo of the complainant was necessary for his

identification, given that the purpose of enforcing the ban on frequentation

imposed on the Complainant cannot reasonably be achieved4 in any way other than by the

                                                

4Recital 39 GDPR. Any processing of personal data should be lawful and fair. The fact that data
personal data relating to natural persons is collected, used, accessed or otherwise processed
and the extent to which that data is or will be processed should be transparent to individuals
concerned. The principle of transparency requires that any information and communication relating to the processing of this data
of a personal nature are easily accessible, easy to understand, and formulated in clear and simple terms.
This principle applies, in particular, to the information communicated to the persons concerned on the identity of the person responsible for the
processing and on the purposes of the processing as well as for other information aimed at ensuring fair and
transparent vis-à-vis the natural persons concerned and their right to obtain confirmation and communication of

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 9/11

photo processing. The way in which the photo is made available, either via an appendix to

the e-mail in question, either by means of a direct consultation of the complainant's Facebook page,

does not matter in this context. The principle of data minimization (article 5.1.c) of the GDPR) has

which was also respected on this point.

 

33. In order to check whether the third condition of Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR - the so-called "test of

balancing" between the interests of the controller on the one hand and the freedoms and rights

fundamentals of the data subject on the other hand - can be fulfilled, in accordance with the

recital 47 of the GDPR, the reasonable expectations of the person must first be taken into account

concerned. In particular, it must be assessed whether "the data subject can reasonably

expect, at the time and in the context of the collection of personal data, that

that they are processed for a given purpose”5.

 

34. This aspect is also emphasized by the Court in its judgment "TK v. Asociaţia de Proprietari bloc

M5A-ScaraA" of December 11, 20196, which states the following:

 

"Also relevant for the purposes of this balancing are the reasonable expectations of the

data subject that his or her personal data will not be processed when,

in the circumstances of the case, that person cannot reasonably expect a

further processing thereof.

 

35. Since the Complainant himself published the photo in such a way that it is freely accessible

to everyone, the Litigation Chamber considers that this is part of the reasonable expectations

of the complainant that third parties access and use the publicly shared information. Collection

and the use by these third parties of the personal data made public is however

lawful only to the extent that the processing of such personal data is based on a

legal basis as defined in Article 6.1 of the GDPR. The Litigation Chamber finds that the

                                                
personal data concerning them which are the subject of processing. Individuals should be informed
the risks, rules, guarantees and rights related to the processing of personal data and the methods of exercising their
rights in relation to such processing. In particular, the specific purposes of the processing of personal data
should be explicit and lawful, and determined when collecting the personal data. The data to
personal character should be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which
they are processed. This requires, in particular, ensuring that the data retention period is limited to the strict minimum.
Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be
achieved by other means. In order to ensure that the data is not kept longer than necessary,
time limits should be set by the controller for their erasure or for periodic review. It is necessary to
take all reasonable steps to ensure that personal data that is inaccurate is rectified
or deleted. Personal data should be processed in such a way as to ensure security and
appropriate confidentiality, including to prevent unauthorized access to such data and to the equipment used to
processing and unauthorized use of such data and equipment. [proper underlining].

5 Recital 47 GDPR.
6 CJEU, 11 December 2019, C-708/18, TK v Asociaţia de Proprietari block M5A-ScaraA, recital 58.

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 10/11

defendants rightly invoke Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR7, given that the judgment of the

Court of Sport, in addition to the ban imposed on the plaintiff, also stipulates

that the clerk of the secretariat of the first defendant is requested to inform of this prohibition of

attendance at all competition organizers on Belgian territory. Although the judgment

does not require you to also attach a photo to this notification of the ban on attendance,

it is however necessary, with a view to monitoring compliance with this prohibition on the part of the

complainant, that the organizers of competitions on Belgian territory have a means,

i.e. the photo of the complainant, to be able to identify him, if necessary - in the event of non-compliance

of the ban.

 

36. The Litigation Chamber considers that the defendants rightly invoke Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR

and that no element is adduced showing that the defendants would have acted in violation

GDPR requirements.

 

 

 

3.4. Publication of the decision

37. Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber

Litigation, this decision is published on the website of the Authority for the protection of

data. However, it is not necessary for this purpose that the identification data of the parties

are communicated directly.

 

 

 

 

 

                                                

7 Recital 47 GDPR. The legitimate interests of a controller, including those of a controller
to whom the personal data may be communicated, or of a third party may constitute a legal basis for
processing, unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject prevail,
taking into account the reasonable expectations of data subjects based on their relationship with the controller. Such
legitimate interest could, for example, exist where there is a relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject
and the controller in situations such as where the data subject is a customer of the controller.
treatment or is in its service. In any event, the existence of a legitimate interest should be assessed
carefully, in particular to determine whether a data subject can reasonably expect, at the time and in the
framework of the collection of personal data, that these are subject to processing for a given purpose. The
interests and fundamental rights of the data subject could, in particular, prevail over the interest of the data controller.
processing when personal data is processed in circumstances where the data subjects do not
reasonably expect further treatment. Since it is up to the legislator to provide by law the
legal basis for the processing of personal data by public authorities, this legal basis should only
not apply to processing carried out by public authorities in the performance of their tasks. The treatment
of personal data strictly necessary for the purposes of fraud prevention also constitutes an interest
legitimacy of the data controller concerned. The processing of personal data for prospecting purposes
commercial can be considered to be carried out to meet a legitimate interest. [proper underlining].

Decision on the merits 35/2020 - 11/11

FOR THESE REASONS,

 

the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation, pursuant to

of article 100, § 1, 1° of the LCA, to close the present complaint without further action. On the basis of

information currently available to the Litigation Division, it does not consider it possible at this

day to follow up.

 

Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period of

thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of

given as defendant.

 

 

 

(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans

President of the Litigation Chamber

