 
 
 
 
 
 

711.435.2

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

February 18, 2021

More "green": Berlin data protection officer publishes updated information
on data protection-compliant video conferencing services

 

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has published its “Notes for Berliners
Responsible for providers of video conferencing services” in an updated and expanded
version published. A total of eleven providers are now on the legal level by the
proven traffic light system with "green" and then a technical test
subjected. On the technical level, the instructions are now clearly differentiated and
include different use cases. For three different scenarios Berliner
Companies, authorities and associations can see at first glance which of the tested ones
Video conferencing services come into consideration for them: There is a separate one for each use case
Traffic light. The paper also contains some information on each of the 23 services or service groups examined
very detailed explanations of the defects and notes on configuration.

The Berlin data protection officer had a first version of their information on July 3, 2020
published. The supervisory authority is reacting to the update in view of the
Corona pandemic continued high interest from companies, authorities, associations and
freelancers in Berlin, information on data protection-compliant use of
obtain video conferencing services. In addition, a large number of providers of
Video conferencing services to the Berlin data protection officer and to check their
Offers requested.

In order to remove the hurdles for those responsible in Berlin for the lawful use of
video conferencing services, the authority has in particular the standard
Contract processing contracts of the providers checked. So far when examining the
No defects were found in the contract documents, a cursory examination of some was carried out
technical aspects of the Services.

In close exchange with the providers, it has been possible, which was originally very successful
to eliminate numerous and serious data protection deficiencies of many offers. So
The authority was also able to compete with various market-strong providers compared to the first
Version of the instructions clear, although unfortunately not sufficient in many cases
achieve improvements. Several providers have the Berlin data protection officer
However, further improvements will be announced in future versions of the Notes
will be taken into account. A larger number of new providers were also added.

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

The offers assessed as admissible in the short test serve very different purposes
needs. Some offerings are more for smaller video conferencing, others are
also suitable for large numbers of participants. Most offers are only suitable for
normal protection requirements, but there are also offers with end-to-end encryption
which the provider cannot eavesdrop on the communication either. Individual offers are even
free to use.

The short check takes into account the requirements for data exports to third countries outside of
EU and EEA resulting from the ECJ judgment "Schrems II" of July 16, 2020 (C-311/18).
Questions arising from a possible
Applicability of foreign - especially US-American - rights to data processing in
surrender to Europe. The requirements correspond to those on which the
Data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments with the "Orientation Aid
Video conferencing systems” of the data protection conference (DSK) of October 23, 2020,
as far as these were testable from the user perspective.

The supervisory authority points out that they do not carry out a comprehensive examination of the services
carried out, but limited itself to central aspects. In particular, none
comprehensive technical examination and usually no examination of the
Data protection declarations of the providers takes place, since these are only those who are responsible for themselves
Data processing affects the video conferencing service provider and not that of the
responsible authorities in Berlin when using the services.

Insofar as there are legal deficiencies in the checked documents, the services may only
be used if different agreements have been made with the providers.

The list is updated continuously by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
supplemented if it examines other offers as part of its supervisory and advisory activities
has. In particular providers of video conferencing solutions who offer their service Berliner
provide those responsible and special functions such as an end-to-end
Encryption, integration of professional user management systems or a high level
Allow number of participants are invited to provide contractual documents and technical
Submit information for a short check to the Berlin data protection officer.

Maja Smoltczyk:

"I am pleased that our advice has persuaded so many providers to sell their offers in
To improve data protection in some cases very significantly. There are now enough of them
legally usable services for a wide variety of purposes, so there is no reason
breaking data protection law for video conferencing. If a provider with legal
not moved by the inadequate video conferencing service, it is high time to make the switch.
Convenience cannot justify the violation of fundamental rights.

Authorities and large companies in particular should also consider whether to
cannot operate the video conferencing solution themselves. This prevents impermissible data leakage
much more likely to control and prevent.”

The results of the short test can be found on the website of the Berlin representative for
Data protection and freedom of information at https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-
service/themen-a-bis-z/corona-pandemic.html. The orientation aid

 



- 3 -

Video conference systems of the data protection conference (DSK) of October 23, 2020 is under
https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/orientation assistance.html.

 

 

