THE STATE OFFICER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 May 25, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 LfDI strongly recommends testing centers to keep their security

to check precautions in data processing

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: “In this phase, we have to

Pandemic carefully with the personal data of the

bypass citizens. There must be no 'side effect' of

Corona tests be that personal and sensitive data from

many people end up somewhere on the internet and for third parties

are visible."

 

Many citizens would like to go to numerous vaccination centers at the moment

to be vaccinated. the

Vaccination rate is increasing and so it is moving

common goal of a normalized everyday life without bigger ones

Risks of becoming seriously ill with the corona virus closer.

In

Citizens can access test centers free of charge

get tested for coronavirus. Many of the test centers offer this

as a service, the result via apps, by SMS or email

sent straight to your cellphone.

 

Test centers work with citizens' health data.

This

after

of the General Data Protection Regulation in particular

Sensitive data are particularly in need of protection because they are

 

- 2 -

personally, and you can fool around with them. In

In recent weeks, however, it has happened again and again

that

because of

lacking

technical and organizational

Measures in test centers Results of the tests open on the Internet

be accessed by unauthorized persons

could.

in Baden

Württemberg and also nationwide were numerous such

known cases.

 

In (too) many cases, third-party test results were in large

Quantities easy

in the

Internet viewable as the operator

disregarded basic IT security measures.

This can and will be within the framework of supervisory and fine procedures

of the General Data Protection Regulation.

 

The state commissioner Brink recommends the person responsible

Therefore, immediately check carefully whether they have the

adequate security of the health data tested by

technical and organizational measures

ensure at all times

be able.

 

Since the processed data is particularly sensitive

is health data, those responsible should note, among other things,

that the personal data with secure passwords

are protected if test results exceed the

Internet

to be provided. Access to the data of each

Test results must not be easy for third parties to guess.

 

In addition, the test centers must guarantee that the data

of the users are not misused, for example to their own

purposes of the operator or for advertising purposes. It can

happen when so-called tracking takes place in the network,

i.e. those tested at the instigation of the operators on the Internet

be explored and monitored. This also represents a

constitutes a serious violation that will result in sanctions.

Those responsible must always be able to prove that they

within the framework of the General Data Protection Regulation and not

immediately delete any data that is needed anymore.

 

- 3 -

 

Are data breaches at test centers reported by those responsible

determined - is there lost data from those tested,

are test results inadvertently the

wrong people

disclosed or if the test center is hacked – they have to

responsible bodies

the vulnerabilities

immediately

close and report the violation within 72 hours

report to state officials.

 

 
 

Further information

 

An overview with numerous safety instructions for the

Test centers is on the website of the state representative:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/pandemie-

fight-data-protection-in-test-centres/

 

 

 

