1/9

Procedure No.: PS/00327/2019

 RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 02/13/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directs against MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL POLICIES OF THE JUNTA
DE EXTREMADURA with NIF S0611001I (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons in
that bases the claim are: the lack of security in access when requesting an appointment
advance for primary care consultations from their websites, since anyone
can easily access data from community health users and
manage them.

Attached screenshot web page and images.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 04/01/2019, the claim filed for
analysis and communication to the claimant of the decision adopted in this regard. Equally,
he was required so that within a month he sent to the determined Agency
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the

claim and its transfer to the claimed entity.

The person claimed on 07/01/2019 alleged, in summary: That the Service
Health Extremeño (SES), in compliance with its purposes and with the aim of
facilitate the citizen's relations with the health administration I create a service of
health management of the citizen establishing two different levels: a level of
Appointment management in primary care and other clinical information management
related to specialized care.

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

This service called "online health center" allows access to the management
of appointments with your primary care center, limiting the information to date, time and
meeting place; likewise, the service allows the citizen to request an appointment,
modify or cancel it. For the management of the citizen's medical information, the
system requires complex authentication, reinforced with elements such as ID
electronic etc
 

That they are not in agreement with the vision presented by the claimant since if
it is true that for the dating area it is enough to enter date of birth
and DNI, the information that can be accessed is simply that related to the
Appointment in Primary Care, but in no case can access to another type of
information, such as medical history, treatments, health data or appointments of Care
Specialized, for which a more complex authentication would be needed (DNI,
electronic certificate, etc.).

However, the SES has assessed the modification of some aspects of
security in relation to the claim received, pointing out, among others, the
modification of the conditions of use and the prior acceptance of the conditions of
use of the service.
 
THIRD: On 07/25/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: On 12/10/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of the
article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

FIFTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent did not present a written
allegations within the legal period established for it, so it is applicable what
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, for which a Resolution is issued.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 02/13/2019, the claimant submitted a written document in the AGPD, reasoned
due to the lack of security when requesting an appointment for primary care consultations
from its website, since anyone can easily access the data of
community health users and manage them.

SECOND: A copy of the claimant's DNI nº ***NIF.1 is provided

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

THIRD: The SES in writing of 05/17/2019 states "that the use of the service is
subject to rules of use, available from an accessible link once it has been
accessed, visible at the bottom of the web and can be consulted at the address
https://saludextremadura.ses.es/onilne/publico/infoLegal.xhtml”, and that in the case of
unauthorized or consented access may occur, such as the case raised by the
claimant “it must be understood that there is no security breach in the
information system but, rather, the commission of a crime by someone who
access unauthorized data” and that it has assessed the modification of some aspects
security-related such as:

“- Modification of the conditions of use, adapting them to the prevention of
the commission of the crimes that have been referred to previously, with special
incidence on crimes related to the discovery and disclosure of
secrets

- Prior acceptance of the conditions of use of the service: although it is true that the use
of the CSOnline service is subject to conditions of use that have already been made
reference in this document and, as just indicated, will be modified in the
sense of the claim, it is proposed to include an express prior acceptance (opt in) of
the conditions of use. With this modification, the user declares to be aware of the
terms of use. With this modification, the user declares to be aware of the
conditions of use and, specifically, the possibility of committing a crime in
So to access data of third parties”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:
a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what results
of instruction.

c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with

express indication of the system of recusal of the same.

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attributes such competence, indicating the possibility that the alleged perpetrator
can voluntarily acknowledge its responsibility, with the effects provided for in the
article 85.

e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those
may adopt during the same in accordance with article 56.

f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in the event
not to carry out
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the agreement
of initiation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a
precise statement about the imputed responsibility.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

III

The facts denounced are specified in the absence of security measures
on the website designated by the SES to manage requests for prior appointments
primary care in health centers or services in Extremadura, since for
make an appointment it is only necessary to enter ID and date of birth, which would allow
access to other data linked to the patient by third parties violating the duty of
confidentiality.

Article 5, Principles related to the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)”

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

IV

The documentation in the file shows that the SES violates the
article 5 of the RGPD, principles relating to treatment, in conjunction with article 5 of
the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality, in relation to the website intended by the aforementioned
body in the management of requests for prior appointment of primary care in the
health centers in Extremadura, as is also justified by the fact that the
legal notice remembering that unauthorized access to data or information of third parties
it is a criminal act and an opt-in mechanism to accept the conditions,
understanding that before accessing or registering in the dating section

This duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, must
understood that its purpose is to prevent leaks of data not
consented to by their owners.

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not
only to the person in charge and in charge of the treatment but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

The respondent himself considers that although for the appointment it is enough to introduce
the DNI and date of birth, the information that could be accessed is the
related to the Primary Care appointment without being able to access another type of
information such as medical history, health data, etc., requiring authentication
more complex reinforced with other elements; however, it is no less true that
root of the claim has assessed the modification of some aspects related
with safety as the conditions of use, adapting them to the prevention
of the commission of the crimes and the prior express inclusion (opt in) of the conditions of
use, which would corroborate the weakness of the technical measures and
organizational measures implemented, the application of a modification of the
system access procedure.

v

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned GDPR, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72, for the purposes of prescription, indicates: "Infringements

considered very serious:

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

However, the LOPDGDD in its article 77,

 Regime applicable to
certain categories of controllers or processors, establishes the
Next:

IV

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In the case at hand, in this sanctioning procedure
It is accredited that, in relation to the service established for the management of appointments
of primary care centers, the regulations on
Personal data protection.

According to the available evidence, said conduct
constitutes by the defendant the infringement of the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

It should be noted that the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of article 83,
contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of resorting to the sanction of warning
to correct the processing of personal data that is not in accordance with your
forecasts, when those responsible or in charge listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law.

Likewise, it is contemplated that the resolution issued will establish the measures
that it is appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases, the effects of the infraction are corrected
that had been committed, the adequacy of the treatment to the requirements contemplated
in article 5 of the RGPD, as well as the provision of accrediting means of the
compliance with what is required.

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

As indicated previously, it has been proven that the defendant
has not adopted pertinent measures that guarantee a level of security
capable of ensuring the confidentiality and integrity of the data, avoiding
unauthorized and unauthorized access, the built-in solution not being enough
by the claimed to reinforce the legal notice on its website to remember that the
unauthorized access to information is a crime, as well as the opt-in mechanism for
accept the conditions before accessing or registering in the dating section.

It is necessary to point out that if these deficiencies are not corrected by adopting
the appropriate measures in accordance with the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD in order to
ensure adequate security of personal data, including the protection
against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss, destruction or damage
accidental, through the application of appropriate technical or organizational measures or
or to reiterate the behavior revealed in the claim and that is the cause of the
this procedure, as well as not immediately informing this AEPD of the
measures adopted could give rise to the exercise of possible actions before the
responsible for the treatment in order to apply effectively the measures
appropriate to guarantee and not compromise the confidentiality of the data of
personal character and the right to privacy of individuals.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL POLICIES OF THE
JUNTA DE EXTREMADURA (Extremadura Health Service), with NIF S0611001I, by
an infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUIRE the MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL POLICIES
OF THE BOARD OF EXTREMADURA (Extremadura Health Service), with NIF
S0611001I, so that within a month from the notification of this resolution,
proves: the adoption of the necessary and pertinent measures in accordance with the
regulations regarding the protection of personal data in order to prevent
incidents such as those that have given rise to the
claim correcting the effects of the infringement, adapting the aforementioned measures to
the requirements contemplated in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
SOCIAL POLICIES OF THE GOVERNMENT OF EXTREMADURA (Extremeño Service of
Health), with NIF S0611001I.

FOURTH
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 :  COMMUNICATE

this resolution to the Ombudsman, of

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

c/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

