 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
If you toot, you don't have to tweet
Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection has been using since today
the microblogging service Mastodon

Munich, May 25, 2022

Using microblogging services is an integral part of social life
networks. In political communication, Twitter is currently still an American
kanian provider dominant. The use of channels hosted there can be used for Bavarian public
public bodies may, however, be associated with data protection problems: over-
Transfers of personal data to a country outside the scope of the
General Data Protection Regulation are often not legally possible.

Against this background, the Bavarian state commissioner for data protection
kept an eye out for an alternative and found it in the microblogging service Mastodon
found. This is a decentrally hosted offer that does not have any commercial
objectives can be pursued and designed without problematic transfers to third countries.
Until further notice, the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection will use the
provided by the Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and for the
Data protection supervisory authorities as well as for other public bodies of the federal government and
instance social.bund open to the federal states.

From May 25, 2022, Bavarian public authorities, citizens such as
other interested parties the "Toots" of the Bavarian State Commissioner for the data
schutz on https://social.bund.de/@BayLfD and get the latest from the world of
Find out about data protection in Bavaria, Germany and Europe. In the essence of a microblog
went service establishes the presence of a return channel. The Bavarian State Commissioner
tragte for data protection is looking forward to the exchange within and outside the data
protection community.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: “Microblogging services are not demonic. Bavarian public
However, public bodies should exercise caution before using such a tool
consider which providers come into consideration and thereby the data protection conformity as
consider the selection criteria. With my decision for Mastodon I also want to
send a signal that the big providers are not without alternatives.”

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
bound by instructions.

 The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

