 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Opinion  13/2022  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Bulgaria regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body 
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 
 

Adopted on 4 July 2022 

 

 

Adopted  

Table of contents 

1 
2 

3 
4 
 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 
Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 4 
2.1 
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision................................ 4 
2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 
GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.1 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ........................................................... 7 
2.2.2 
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................ 8 
2.2.3 
2.2.4 
PROCESS REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.5  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS ..................................................................... 10 
2.2.6 
FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS ....................................................................... 11 
Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................. 11 
Final Remarks ............................................................................................................................... 13 

 

Adopted  

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not 
limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
                                                            

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

Adopted  

accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

3. 

The  Bulgarian  Supervisory  Authority  (hereinafter  “BG  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 28 March 2022. 
The BG SA will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify using GDPR certification criteria. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the BG SA is tasked by national 
law to carry out the accreditation of certification bodies. To this end, the BG SA has developed a set 
of  requirements  specifically  for  accreditation  of  certification  bodies  in  conjunction  with  a  set  of 
certification criteria that is yet to be formally approved. 

4. 

This assessment of BG SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 

                                                            

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
Regulation, 
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

Adopted  

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a 
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the BG 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the BG SA to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the BG SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 
2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

b. 

independence of the certification body 

c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 

e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

10. 

a.  Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body needs to 

address in order to be accredited; 

Adopted  

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  GENERAL REMARKS 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

The Board considers that in particular, it should be clear that GDPR certification is only applicable to 
processing operations and controllers and processors. In addition, the Board considers that the draft 
accreditation  requirements  should  clearly  state  that  the  GDPR  has  precedence  over  ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, as stated in the Annex. The EDPB thus encourages the BG SA to amend the requirements 
accordingly.  

The  Board  notes  that  section  “terms  and  definitions”  states  that  definitions  are  based  and  in 
compliance with the GDPR and the relevant EDPB Guidelines. However, some of the definitions do not 
correspond to the definitions used for the same concepts in the GDPR and the Guidelines. Thus, it is 
unclear what is the relationship between some of those terms and the definitions in the GDPR and 
Guidelines (e.g. definition of “accreditation”). Therefore, the Board encourages the BG SA to ensure 
that  the  terms  defined  in  the  GDPR  and/or  the  Guidelines  are  reflected  consistently  in  the 
accreditation requirements. In addition, some terms such as “subject matter of the certification, ToE, 
object  of  evaluation,  evaluation  object”  are  used  indistinctly  in  the  draft  requirements.  Thus,  the 
Board encourages the BG SA to clarify these terms and to ensure that clear and consistent wording is 
used thorough the document. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  requirements  should  be  drafted  in  a  prescriptive  manner.  Thus,  the 
requirements should avoid the word “should” and rather use “shall” or “must”. The EDPB encourages 
the BG SA to make the necessary changes in this regard (e.g. in subsection 7.1.1).  

In general, the Board encourages the BG SA to ensure consistency of the wording throughout the text 
(e.g.  “Commission for Personal Data Protection”, “CPDP”  or “Competent Supervisory Authority”).  

  

Adopted  

2.2.2  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION  

15.  Concerning subsection 4.1.1 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements (Legal responsibility), the 
Board  considers  that  the  obligation  of  certification  bodies  to  have  up  to  date  procedures  that 
demonstrate compliance with the legal responsibilities set out in the terms of accreditation should be 
explicitly included in the accreditation requirements. Moreover, the certification body shall be able to 
demonstrate evidence of GDPR compliant procedures and measures specifically for controlling and 
handling client organisation’s personal data as part of the certification process. Therefore, the Board 
recommends that the BG SA amends the draft requirements accordingly. 

16.  Regarding point 9 of subsection 4.1.2 of the BG SA’s accreditation requirements, the Board notes the 
inclusion of a reference to the consequences for the data subjects. However, the BG SA omitted a 
reference to [where applicable] “the consequences for the customer should also be addressed”, as 
stated  in  the  Annex.  The  Board  therefore  recommends  that  the  BG  SA  replaces  the  term  with 
“customer” or “client”, in order to align the wording with the Annex. 

17. 

18. 

The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  point  12  of  subsection  4.1.2  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements,  regarding  the  obligation  of  the  applicant  to  inform  the  certification  body  of 
infringements of the GDPR and of other data protection legislation, should be clarified. The Board 
considers  that  this  obligation  should  not  lead  to  self-incrimination  and,  therefore,  the  obligation 
should refer to infringements established by the BG SA and/or judicial authorities. Thus, the Board 
recommends that the BG SA makes such clarification. 

In addition, the Board notes the obligation to lay down rules preventing conflicts of interest. The Board 
acknowledges the importance to have requirements that ensure, firstly, that there are no conflicts of 
interests and, secondly, in case conflicts of interest are identified, that the certification body manages 
them. Therefore, the Board encourages the BG SA to clarify that, in addition to having rules preventing 
conflicts, there should be clear rules to manage identified conflicts of interests. 

19.  With respect to subsection 4.2.3 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Management of 
impartiality”), the Board encourages the BG SA to provide examples of situations where a certification 
body has no relevant connection with the customer it assesses. For example, the certification body 
should not belong to the same company group nor should be controlled in any way by the customer 
it assesses. 

20.  With  regard  to  subsection  4.3  (“Liability  and  financing”)  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements,  the  Board  notes  that,  in  accordance  with  the  Annex,  the  certification  body  shall 
demonstrate on a regular basis that it has the appropriate measures to cover its liabilities. The BG SA’s 
draft accreditation requirements do not include the notion of “regular basis”. However, since the 
requirement says that the measures shall cover all the validity period, the Board for sake of clarity 
encourages the BG SA to include directly such reference, in line with the Annex. 

21.  Regarding subsection 4.6.1 (“Publicly available information”), the Board recommends the BG SA to 
add  missing  element  of  the  Annex  that  all  certification  procedures  are  also  published  and  easily 
publicly available. 

22. 

In addition, subsection 4.6.2 indicates that “information   related   to   complaints   on   the   compliance   
with   the   certification requirements, as well as, information regarding complaints on certificates’ 
breaches,  is  publicly  available”.  Which  may  suggest  that  BG  SA  requires  the  certification  body  to 
ensure that information about each individual complaint is publicly available, that is in contradiction 
with the Annex, which requires that at minimum information about complaints handling procedures 

Adopted  

and appeals is made public pursuant to Article 43(2)(d). Therefore, the Board encourages the BG SA 
to reformulate this requirement accordingly in order to ensure that personal data included in single 
complaints will not be publicly available.  

2.2.3 RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  

23.  As a general remark, the Board considers that the expertise requirements for evaluators and decision- 
makers should be tailored taking into account the different tasks that they perform. In this regard, the 
Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  evaluators  should  have  a  more  specialist  expertise  and  professional 
experience in technical procedures (e.g. audits and certifications), whereas decision-makers should 
have a more general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data protection. 
Considering this, the Board encourages the BG SA to redraft this subsection taking into account the 
different substantive knowledge and/or experience requirements for evaluators and decision-makers, 
rather than the years of experience. 

24.  Regarding the educational requirements for personnel with technical expertise, the reference to a 
recognised protected title in the relevant regulated profession should be included. Thus, the EDPB 
recommends that the BG SA redrafts the requirements to clarify the above-mentioned element, in 
line with the Annex. 

25.  As regards the requirements for personnel responsible for evaluations, The Board recommends that 

the BG SA refers to professional experience in technical data protection as well. 

26. 

Finally, regarding the education requirements for the technical personnel, the Board considers that 
the list of subjects is already tailored to the technical expertise required by the Annex. Therefore, the 
Board encourages the BG SA to delete the reference to “humanitarian, natural science” from the list 
of  subjects  regarding  the  university  education  of  the  technical  personnel.  In  addition  the  Board 
encourages the BG SA to replace “and” by “or” before other areas.  

27.  According to the Annex personnel with legal expertise responsible for evaluation shall be registered 
as  required  by  the  Member  State.  Based  on  the  explanations  provided  by  the  BG  SA,  the  Board 
understands that such an obligation exists in Bulgaria. Therefore the Board recommends that the BG 
SA includes this requirement. 

28. 

The Board takes note that for personnel with legal expertise “the Certification body shall use the 
proper procedures to ensure that the personnel specific expertise is updated taking into account the 
changes in the legal situation, the data protection risks and the current state of the technique and 
technology”. In order to avoid misunderstandings, the Board encourages the BG SA to delete word 
“proper”.  

29.  As regards section 6 point6 on representatives in the governing bodies and the individuals, who make 
the  final  decision  in  issuing  the  certificate,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  BG  SA  brings  this 
requirement in line with the Annex by specifying “ shall have significant experiences in identifying and 
implementing data protection measures” instead of shall have significant professional experience in 
the personal data protection area.   

30. 

In order to avoid misunderstandings, the Board encourage the BG SA to clarify the last paragraph of 
the  section  6  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  stating  that  “The  above  listed  general 
requirements for the Certification body resources will be further specified in the Ordinance for the 
conditions and the procedure for accreditation and withdrawal of accreditation of Certification bodies, 
which will be adopted on the basis of these criteria”.  

Adopted  

2.2.4  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS  

31. 

In section 7 on process requirements, the Board recommends that the BG adds a reference to “Notify 
the relevant CSAs before a certification body starts operating an approved European Data Protection 
Seal in a new Member State from a satellite office.” so as to bring this requirement in line with the 
Annex. 

32. 

The Board encourages the BG SA to redraft subsection 7.2.1. of the accreditation requirements in 
order to ensure consistency by using term ToE instead of “Object of certification”. 

33.  As regards subsection 7.2 of the BG SA’s accreditation requirements, the Board underlines that the 
applicant shall always contain a description of the data transferred to other systems or organisations, 
regardless of their location. Therefore, the Board encourages the BG SA to amend the wording in order 
to avoid confusion. 

34.  Regarding subsection 7.2. 2 (“Application”) of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board 
notes  that  it  includes  the  obligation  to  provide  “Information  regarding  all  ongoing  or  closed 
investigations before the CPDP against the Applicant”. The Board is of the opinion that the obligation 
should be tailored to investigations or regulatory actions related to the scope of the certification and 
the target of evaluation. Therefore, the Board encourages the BG SA to clarify that the investigation 
or regulatory action should be related to the scope of certification and the target of evaluation. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

The Board encourages the BG SA to bring subsection 7.3.1 in line with the Annex, by adding “  binding 
assessment methods”. 

The Board notes that the obligation to have procedures for the granting, regular review and revocation 
of the respective certifications pursuant to Article 43(2) and 43(3) (section 7.5 of the Annex) is not 
included in the BG SA’s draft requirements. Thus, the Board recommends that the BG SA includes it in 
the requirement. 

The Board recommends that the BG SA brings subsection 7.6 in line with subsection 7.6 of the Annex, 
by adding missing elements. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  second  paragraph  of  subsection  7.6  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements includes the obligation to submit to the BG SA the draft decision with a summary, which 
should  include  description  of  the  compliance  with  the  current  requirements  and  the  certification 
grounds, and a declaration which states that the Applicant does not have any ongoing proceeding 
before  CPDP,  prior  to  issuing,  renewing  or  validity  extension  of  the  certification.  Based  on  the 
explanations provided by the BG SA, the Board understands that the intention of this requirement is 
to  increase  transparency  and  it  does  not  entail  a  supervision  of  the  draft  approval.  The  Board 
encourages the BG SA to include a clarification in that sense. 

39.  With  regard  to  subsection  7.7  (“Certification  documentation”),  the  Board  notes  that  the  BG  SA’s 
accreditation requirements do not include the last paragraph of section 7.7 of the Annex. The Board 
considers  that  these  requirements  should  be  in  the  text  of  the  accreditation  requirements  and 
recommends that the BG SA amends the requirements in order to include the information. 

40. 

41. 

In subsection 7.8 point 1 the Board recommends that the BG SA adds a meaningful description on the 
object of certification pursuant to the Guidelines.  

The  Board  encourages  the  BG  SA  to  add  in  section  7.8  point  2  the  phrase  “including  version  or 
functional status”. 

Adopted  

42. 

In addition the Board recommends that the BG SA  clarifies in line with section 7.8 of the Annex that 
elements listed in subsection 7.8 (points 1-4) are part of the executive summary and must be publicly 
available. 

43.  With regard to the last sentence of subsection 7.8 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements, 
the Board notes that this section concerns the obligation to inform the CPDP upon request of the 
reasons for issuance or non-issuance of a certificate, whereas the requirement in subsection 7.8 of 
the Annex to the Guidelines contains an obligation to proactively inform the SA of the reasons for 
granting or revoking the certification. Therefore, the Board recommends that the BG SA amends the 
draft accordingly. 

44.  With regard to subsection 7.9 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Surveillance”), the 
Board considers that the risks associated with the processing should be taken into account in order to 
determine  how  frequent  monitoring  is  necessary.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  BG  SA  to 
include a risk-based approach with regard to the arrangements for surveillance.  

45.  With regard to subsection 7.10 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“changes affecting 
certification”), the Board considers that changes in the state of art are also relevant and might affect 
certification. Therefore, the Board encourages the BG SA to include this possibility among the list of 
changes that might affect certification. 

46. 

In addition, the Board notes that subsection 7.10 includes “data security breaches or  data  protection  
legislation    infringements”.  The  Board  considers  that,  in  order  to  avoid  self-incrimination,  the 
reference should be to infringements established by the BG SA or the competent judicial authority. 
Therefore, the Board encourages the BG SA to add the abovementioned reference. At the same time, 
in order to ensure clarity, the Board encourages the BG SA to specify that the data security breaches 
or data protection legislation infringements shall be taken into account only inasmuch as they relate 
to the certification. 

47.  Additionally, the Board observes that there is no reference to the change procedures to be agreed, as 
per subsection 7.10 of the Annex. The Board encourages the BG SA to include such reference and 
mention some of the procedures that could be put in place (e.g. transition periods, approvals process 
with the competent SA...). 

48.  Regarding the obligation to inform the BG SA of the reasons for the termination, reduction, suspension 
or withdrawal of a certification (subsection 7.11 of the BG SA’s accreditation requirements), the Board 
encourages the BG SA to clarify that the information should be provided in writing.   

49. 

50. 

51. 

In subsection 7.12, the Board recommends that the BG SA specify that the certification body should 
be required to keep all documentation complete, comprehensible, up-to-date and fit to audit in line 
with subsection 7.12 of the Annex.  
In subsection 7.13 (“Complaints and appeals, Art. 43 (2) (d)”), the Board recommends that the BG SA 
adds  the  missing  elements  of  subsection  7.13  of  the  Annex  such  as  “how  and  to  whom  such 
confirmation must be given” and “which processes are to be initiated afterwards”. 

2.2.5  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

The Board understands that section 8 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements includes the 
obligation to disclose to the BG SA the management principles and their documented implementation 
during the accreditation procedure and, afterwards, at the request of the BG SA at any time during an 
investigation, as stated in the Annex. However wording of this section is not fully in line with paragraph 

Adopted  

4 and 5, section 8 of the Annex. Therefore, the Board recommends that the BG SA brings this section 
fully in line with the Annex.  

2.2.6  FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS 

52. 

53. 

The  first  sentence  of  subsection  9.1  (“Updating  of  evaluation  methods”)  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft 
accreditation  requirements  refers  to  “the  context  of  evaluation  under  point  7.4  of  ISO/IEC 
17065/2012”, which does not reflect the wording of subsection 9.1 of the Annex. Therefore, the Board 
recommends that the BG SA adds the reference to the evaluation under subsection 7.4 of the BG SA’s 
accreditation requirements.   

The Board considers that subsection 9.3.4 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements is not in 
line with subsection 9.3.4 of the Annex, in particular the reference to notification to customers in the 
event of suspension or withdrawal of the accreditation is missing. The Board recommends that the BG 
SA includes the missing elements, in line with the Annex. 

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

54. 

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  Bulgarian  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an 
inconsistent application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to 
be made: 

 

55.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

1)  amends subsection 4.1.1 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirements in order to ensure 
that the obligation of certification bodies to have up to date procedures that demonstrate 
compliance with the legal responsibilities set out in the terms of accreditation should be 
explicitly included in the accreditation requirements as well as the certification body shall 
be able to demonstrate evidence of GDPR compliant procedures and measures specifically 
for controlling and handling client organisation’s personal data as part of the certification 
process. 
replaces in point 9 of subsection 4.1.2 of the BG SA’s accreditation requirements the term 
“data subject” with the term “customer”, in order to align the wording with the Annex.  

2) 

3)  makes  clarification  in  point  12  of  subsection  4.1.2  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements  that  the  obligation  of  the  applicant  to  inform  the  certification  body  of 
infringements of the GDPR  should refer to infringements established by the BG SA and/or 
judicial authorities.  

4)  adds in subsection 4.6.1 missing element of the Annex that all certification procedures are 

also published and easily publicly available. 

5)  adds  in  subsection  4.6.2  that    information  about  complaints  handling  procedures  and 

appeals is made public pursuant to Article 43(2)(d).  

56.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

1)  adds a reference to a recognised protected title in the relevant regulated profession into 
the education requirements for personnel with technical expertise in line with the Annex. 

Adopted  

2)  refers  in  the  requirements  for  personnel  responsible  for  evaluations    to  professional 

experience in technical data protection as well. 

3)  includes  to  the  requirements  that    personnel  with  legal  expertise  responsible  for 

evaluation  shall be registered as required by BG law.  

4)  specifies  in  section  6  point  6  that  representatives  in  the  governing  bodies  and  the 
individuals, who make the final decision in issuing the certificate “shall have significant 
experiences in identifying and implementing data protection measures”. 

57.  Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

1)  adds in section 7 a reference to “Notify the relevant CSAs before a certification body starts 
operating an approved European Data Protection Seal in a new Member State from a 
satellite office.”  

2)  includes the obligation to have procedures for the granting, regular review and revocation 
of the respective certifications pursuant to Article 43(2) and 43(3) (subsection 7.5 Annex). 

3)  brings subsection 7.6 in line with subsection 7.6 of the Annex, by adding missing elements. 
4)  adds in subsection 7.7 (“Certification documentation”)  the last paragraph of section 7.7  

of the Annex.  

5)  adds in subsection 7.8. point 1) “ a meaningful description” on the object of certification 

pursuant to the Guidelines.  

6)  clarifies in line with subsection 7.8 of the Annex that elements listed in subsection  7.8 

(points 1-4) are part of the executive summary and must be publicly available. 

7)  amends  the  last  sentence  of  subsection  7.8  of  the  BG  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements, that certification body is obliged to proactively inform the SA of the reasons 
for granting or revoking the certification.  

8)  specifies  in  subsection  7.12  that  the  certification  body  should  be  required  to  keep  all 
documentation  complete,  comprehensible,  up-to-date  and  fit  to  audit  in  line  with 
subsection 7.12 of the Annex.  

9)  adds in subsection 7.13 missing elements of section 7.13 of the Annex such as “how and 
to  whom  such  confirmation  must  be  given”  and  “which  processes  are  to  be  initiated 
afterwards”. 

58.  Regarding ‘management system requirements’, the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

1)  brings section 8 fully in line with paragraph 4 and 5, section 8 of the Annex.  

59.  Regarding ‘further additional requirements’, the Board recommends that the BG SA: 

1)  adds  a  reference  to  the  evaluation  under  subsection  7.4  of  the  BG  SA’s  accreditation 

requirements in line with the wording of subsection 9.1. of the Annex.  

2)  includes in the subsection 9.3.4 of the BG SA’s draft accreditation requirement reference 
to notification to customers in the event of suspension or withdrawal of the accreditation. 
Final Remarks 

Adopted  

4  FINAL REMARKS 

60. 

This opinion is addressed to the Bulgarian Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

61.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the BG SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within 
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

62. 

The BG SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted  

