

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control in connection with the processing of personal data in connection with the purchase of a database (the company STEM/MARK, a.s.)



Based on the chairperson's initiative, the Office carried out an inspection, the subject of which was the processing of personal data of clients of a telephone operator, which were leaked during a breach of personal data security at this company. The initiative was issued by the chairperson based on information published in the mass media. The subject of the audited person's activity is the conduct of marketing research and data analysis, whereby the data is mainly obtained from publicly available sources (publicly accessible registers, telephone directories) or from interviewed persons. The inspected person conducts the inquiry via the Internet, by telephone through a call center or by personal interview through interviewers. The inspectors discovered that the inspected person was approached with an offer of a contact data database, which he subsequently purchased. The police of the Czech Republic subsequently informed the inspected person that the purchased database was probably stolen from the telephone operator. The controlled person therefore handed over the data carrier containing this database to the police. The subject database contained the personal data of approximately 2,000 customers of the telephone operator - natural persons (in the scope of first name, surname, residential address, gender, age and telephone number), and also the personal data of approximately 81,000 customers of this company - natural persons running a business (in the scope of name , surname, phone number, number of SIM cards used by the person, method of making payments for the operator's services and the name of the bank from which the payments come). in the amount of CZK 400,000, for violation of § 5, paragraph 2 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (absence of legal title for processing) in connection with the acquisition of the database in question. The head of the Office rejected the appeal filed against this decision. With regard to the above, the inspection was terminated with the fact that the responsibility of the inspected person in this matter has already been assessed and documented in the framework of another procedure led by the Office and the implementation of further inspection actions is no longer justified. Given that the objectionable state no longer lasted (the inspected person no longer had the database at his disposal), the Office did not impose measures to eliminate the identified deficiencies.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Bozena Čajková.







Recommendation:
The office points to the fact that the sale and purchase of databases with personal data from unknown sources is illegal. If someone approaches you with a database offer, refuse it and report the matter to the Police of the Czech Republic, or Office.



ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2019 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Marketing > Inspection in connection with the processing of personal data in connection with the purchase of a database (STEM/MARK, a.s. company) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



