 

 

press release

 

ChatGPT – put to the test!

Erfurt, April 14, 2023

 
ChatGPT is on everyone's lips! As the first supervisory authority in Europe, the Italian

Data protection authority of the company OpenAI prohibited, personal data from it-

lien citizens within the framework of the ChatGPT application

work. In Germany, it is the responsibility of the state data protection supervisory authorities

with the data protection issues of the processing of personal

Genetic data through ChatGPT and similar AI applications.

In view of the great importance of such applications, the conference agrees

the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments

(Privacy Conference) on these issues. The ChatGPT application is counter-

was a data protection law coordinated in the data protection conference

Test.

The Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information

(TLfDI), Dr. Lutz Hasse agrees with the questions of how personal

Genetic data of users or third parties is handled. Who save them, to which

purpose and for how long? However, in order to make your own data protection assessment

to be able to take, further information - for example on the data

sources or to the algorithms behind the automated data processing and to

Disclosure to third parties with commercial interests - necessary and accordingly

to be obtained from OpenAI. Such a procedure is a rule of law

probability, hasty assessments would not reflect the importance of the questions

take sufficient account. In the coordinated examination, the first step

collected the necessary information and evaluated it together. Ongoing

the Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and information

mationsfreiheit (TLfDI) therefore not yet with a data protection evaluation

to express.

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 


 
OpenAI now has a deadline in Italy to present countermeasures. After that threatens

a fine of up to 20 million euros or more than four percent of the worldwide turnover

- 2 -

of the company. Hopefully we'll know more by the end of the month!

 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

