

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data by the bailiff
Bailiff


The inspection was initiated on the basis of two initiatives. At the same time, as part of the control, compliance with the measures imposed by the Office during the previous control activity was checked, during which it was found that the internal system processing clients' personal data showed a system error when selecting the sender's data box.

The subject of the control was the processing of personal data of clients of the enforcement office, within the scope of duties in the performance of enforcement activities, in particular their security against disclosure to unauthorized persons.

The inspection found that the inspected party processes the personal data of clients (mandatory and authorized) in accordance with Article 6 paragraph 1 letter c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, i.e. the processing is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation that applies to the administrator and also processes them in the sense of Article 6 paragraph 1 letter e) Regulation (EU) 2016/679, i.e. the processing is necessary for the fulfillment of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public authority entrusted to the administrator, i.e. the processing is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation that applies to the administrator, i.e. in the exercise activities of bailiffs from Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on bailiffs and enforcement activities (execution regulations).

In the matter of corrective measures, it was found that the enforcement office took technical and organizational measures to rectify the software error of the information system so that the erroneous sending of documents via the data box would not be repeated.

In the case of the complainants, the inspection found that in the first case, the misconduct occurred already in 2012, while the enforcement office did not have the opportunity to detect the misconduct, i.e. to update the personal data, before the filing of the complaint. In the second case, the auditee himself investigated the matter even before the start of the audit, and the employee, who violated the work procedure set by the administrator, was reprimanded for the error, and at the same time the executive office took appropriate measures.


Additional information:
During the processing of personal data, especially during the regular transmission of documents/information containing personal data, among other things, each administrator and processor must also set up and regularly evaluate mechanisms to ensure the elimination and control of cases of human factor failure, which will enable the detection of individual errors.


ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Municipalities and state administration > Inspection of personal data processing by the bailiffView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



