 

Confidential/Registered
 

 

 

Date
November 19, 2019
 
 

 
Subject
Imposition of reprimand
 

Our reference
 
 
Contact
 
070 8888 500
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authoritypersonal data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Dear Mr Van Haperen, dear Mr Rooke,
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) has found that the Alliance has quality in the mental
healthcare (hereinafter: Akwa GGZ) has processed personal data about health. This
processing has taken place by taking over a so-called depleted dataset
of the Benchmark GGZ Foundation (hereinafter: SBG). The processing of health data is based on
Article 9, first paragraph, of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) prohibited, unless Akwa
GGZ itself as controller on an exception as included in Article 9,
second paragraph of the GDPR.
 
In the opinion of the AP, Akwa GGZ cannot rely on an exception in the situation assessed
professions as included in Article 9, second paragraph, of the AVG. This means that the processing of
personal data about health by means of a dataset acquired from SBG a
violates the prohibition of Article 9, first paragraph, of the GDPR. Although Akwa GGZ the impoverished dataset
has now been completely destroyed, the AP reprimands Akwa GGZ for the violation committed on
pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph, opening lines and under b, of the GDPR.
 
The decision to impose a reprimand is further substantiated below. The relevant facts and
circumstances on which the reprimand is based are described in paragraph 1. In paragraph 2
the legal framework is described. In paragraph 3 the assessment is made and the violation
established. Paragraph 4 describes the reprimand. Finally, it is indicated how Akwa GGZ can appeal
stand against this rebuke.
 

 

 

1



 

Date
November 19, 2019

Our reference
 

 

1.

Facts and circumstances

1. Akwa GGZ supports mental health care (GGZ) in the (further) development and implementation

of quality standards, quality indicators and measuring instruments. Akwa GGZ also provides care
exchange between relevant parties about the proceeds thereof. It is included in the foundation as a foundation
register of the Chamber of Commerce and registered under Chamber of Commerce number 71887741.1 The head office
is located in Utrecht, Museumlaan 7.
 

2. In response to a request for enforcement, the AP has conducted an investigation into the

processing of personal data by SBG. In summary, the research is moving forward
has come to the conclusion that the data that SBG (via ZorgTTP) has received from healthcare providers is a processing of
health data within the meaning of Article 4, preamble and under 15, of the GDPR. Because SBG doesn't
can invoke one of the statutory grounds for exception, which is the prohibition on health data
to be processed, it is therefore prohibited for SBG, pursuant to Article 9, paragraph 1,
of the GDPR to process the dataset containing health data.
 

3. At the beginning of 2019, SBG transferred a dataset to Akwa GGZ, consisting of 19 data categories per
patient instead of the 25 original data categories per patient provided to SBG.2
The management of this dataset by Akwa GGZ also constitutes a processing of health data
the meaning of Article 4, preamble and under 15, of the GDPR. Because Akwa GGZ cannot rely on one of them
the legal grounds for exceptions to the processing ban with regard to health data,
is it prohibited for Akwa GGZ to use the dataset containing
processing health data.
 

4. With regard to the processing of this personal data, Akwa GGZ must be qualified as

controller within the meaning of Article 4, part 7, of the GDPR, because Akwa GGZ as
legal person determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data. Already out
the fact that Akwa GGZ informed the AP by letter of 28 May 2019 that the impoverished dataset in
placed in quarantine and informed the AP by letter dated August 8, 2019 that the impoverished
data set has been definitively destroyed, it appears that Akwa GGZ is ultimately responsible for the policy pursued
regarding the impoverished dataset it manages and therefore the purpose and means for the
processing of personal data.
 
2.

 Legal framework

5. Article 4, preamble and under 15, of the GDPR stipulates that health data are personal data

related to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including data
about health services provided that provide information about his state of health.
This concerns all data that relate to the health status of a person involved and that
provide information about past, present and present physical or mental health status
future.3 The concept of “health” should be understood in a broad sense. Also the mere fact that someone is sick

                                                                        
1 See website Chamber of Commerce: https://www.kvk.nl/orderstraat/product-kiezen/?kvknummer=71887741.
2 See also p. 12, 13 and 25 of the final version of the Report as a result of an investigation into data processing by SBG.
3 Recital 35 of the GDPR.

 

 

2/4



 

Date
November 19, 2019

Our reference
 

 
is a fact about health, although that fact in itself says nothing about the nature of the
condition.4
 

6. Data about health qualify under the GDPR as so-called 'special categories of

personal data'. The processing of such data is prohibited under Article 9, first paragraph, of the
GDPR prohibited. However, there are exceptions to this prohibition. They are listed in the second paragraph of Article 9 of
the GDPR. These exceptions do not apply directly on the basis of the GDPR, but leave room
It is up to the Member States to further define this ground for exception. That's in the Netherlands -
in general terms - happened in the General Data Protection Regulation Implementation Act
(UAVG).
 

7. As explained by the AP in the decision on the objection under marginal numbers 45 to 49,
Akwa GGZ does not invoke article 9, second paragraph, part h of the AVG jo. Article 30, third paragraph, under a
of the UAVG. SBG or Akwa GGZ cannot rely on any of the other general conditions either
grounds for exception, as included in Article 9, second paragraph, of the AVG, read in conjunction with the
Articles 22 to 30 of the UAVG.
 
3.

 Violation finding

8. The depleted data set as transferred by SBG to Akwa GGZ constitutes a processing of data
about health within the meaning of Article 4, preamble and under 15, of the GDPR. The AP concludes that
Akwa GGZ cannot rely on one of the exceptions to the processing prohibition of special
personal data, as included in Article 9, second paragraph, of the GDPR.
 

9. In a letter dated 29 May 2019, the AP informed Akwa GGZ of its intention to enforce. The
AP then informed Akwa GGZ that it intended to, in view of the reasons stated in the Report
violations detected from the SBG data processing investigation (hereinafter: investigation report),
to make use of its power, pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, preamble and under f, of the
AVG to impose a definitive ban on processing Akwa GGZ.
 
4.

Reprimand

10. In a letter dated 29 May 2019, the AP informed Akwa GGZ of its intention to enforce. The

AP then informed Akwa GGZ that it intended to, in view of the investigation report
established violations, to make use of its power under Article 58, second
paragraph, preamble and under f, of the AVG to impose a definitive prohibition of processing on Akwa GGZ.
 

11. The AP chooses not to impose a definitive processing ban on Akwa GGZ on the basis of Article
58, second paragraph, opening words and under f, of the AVG but to give Akwa GGZ a reprimand on the basis of Article
58, second paragraph, opening lines and under b, of the GDPR. Based on this, the AP has the authority to
to reprimand the controller when processing infringes the provisions of the GDPR
is made.
  

12. Akwa GGZ has, after taking note of the conclusions of the AP in the investigation report
as shared by the AP with Akwa GGZ by letter dated May 21, 2019, the decision was made to
                                                                        
4 Parliamentary Papers II 1997/98, 25892, 3, p. 109.

 

 

3/4



 

Date
November 19, 2019

Our reference
 

 
quarantine dataset. This was communicated to the AP by letter dated May 28, 2019, by the AP
received on June 3, 2019. On May 29, 2019, an enforcement intention was filed against both SBG and Akwa
GGZ issued in response to the research report. By letter dated August 8, 2019, Akwa
GGZ informed the AP that the depleted dataset has been definitively destroyed. By letter dated 29 August
In 2019, the lawyers of Akwa GGZ submitted a statement from Info Support B.V. that the
depleted database, including backup files, are permanently deleted. Violation of provisions
by or pursuant to the GDPR has therefore been definitively terminated. In short, the data processing activities of
Akwa GGZ, which were the subject of an investigation by the AP, have already been discontinued by Akwa GGZ.
 

13. According to established case law of the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State, one applies
duty of principle to enforce, which means that in the event of a violation of a
legal regulation is in principle obliged to act against this, because of the public interest that
enforcement is served.5 Only in two cases can the administrative body refrain from enforcement
action, namely if there is a concrete prospect of legalization or if enforcement action is disproportionate
proportion to the interests to be served. An administrative body may act on its own initiative or upon request
to take enforcement action.

 

14. In the opinion of the AP, enforcement action is not disproportionate in relation to the resulting action

interests, because the observed infringement concerns the processing of special data
personal data of a large number of data subjects. In addition, Akwa GGZ knew when taking over the
impoverished dataset of SBG, that this processing of special personal data was the subject of
investigation by the AP. Because the infringement has ended, the infringement occurred in a relatively short period of time
between the acquisition of the depleted dataset from early 2019 through August 29, 2019 and Akwa GGZ
has placed the dataset in quarantine itself and then destroyed it definitively, the AP will in this case
use its authority to reprimand Akwa GGZ.
 
I sent a copy of this decision to the representative of the objector and also to the lawyers
from SBG.
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority for Personal Data,
 
 
 
Mr. A. Wolfsen
Chair
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can within six weeks of the date of sending it
decision pursuant to the General Administrative Law Act to file a notice of appeal with the court (sector
administrative law) in the district in which you live. You must provide a copy of this decision
to send along. Submitting a notice of appeal does not suspend the operation of this decision.

                                                                        
5 Judgment of the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State of 11 January 2017, ECLI:NL:RVS:2017:31.

 

 

4/4

