1/14

 File No.: PS/00290/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On May 4, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure against EFS
MAINTENANCE AND TECHNICAL SERVICES, S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party),
through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: PS/00290/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: UNION SINDICAL OBRERA (USO-STA MADRID), on behalf of and
representation of A.A.A. (hereinafter, the CLAIMANT party) on the 8th of
February 2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data. The claim is directed against EFS MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES
TECHNICIANS, S.L. with NIF B61782801 (hereinafter, EFS). The reasons on which the
claim are as follows:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

He states that the company communicates his work situations to the Committee of
Company without any justification and with the intention of harming it.

Along with the claim, provide a copy of the referral letter by the EFS to the Committee
of Company, to which is attached a copy of the letter delivered to the CLAIMANT
related to the request for union hours, where it is reflected that he did not formulate
properly the request and the service was affected and in which you are required to
when formulating the time credit requests, verify if what is actually requested
corresponds to what is really needed.

In the letter sent to the Company Committee, the name, surname and ID number appear
of the CLAIMANT, as well as information regarding the request for hourly credits and
unfulfilled work shifts.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to EFS, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer was notified on March 9, 2021 by electronic notification,
in accordance with article 41 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (LPACAP).

On April 19, 2021, this Agency received a written response
indicating EFS the following:

-

-

The company only communicated to the Works Council the decision to
warn the maid, which she usually does.

The communication has been made in accordance with article 64 of the Statute
of the Workers, to comply with the rights to information and
consultation of the Works Council, specifically, their right to be informed and
consulted on issues that may affect workers
(in this case it has affected the shift system and the way to request the credit
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

3/14

schedule they have); your right to be informed about the rate of
absenteeism in the company (in this case it is a lack of attendance).
Therefore, in no case does it affect particularly sensitive personal data.
that should be protected.

- No transfer has been given to "third parties", but to the members of the Committee of
Company, who are entitled to have access to this information, the
which must have signed a confidentiality document regarding the
data of the company and workers to which they have access as a consequence
of your charge.

THIRD: On June 7, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (RGPD) recognizes each control authority, and according to what
established in articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.

II

Previous issues

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the RGPD, it consists
carrying out personal data processing, since EFS performs, among
other treatments, the collection, registration, conservation, consultation, use,
communication, access, deletion, of the following personal data of people

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

such as: name and surname, identification number, telephone number,
address.

EFS carries out this activity in its capacity as data controller, since
is the one who determines the ends and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the
GDPR.

III

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

Article 5.1.f) “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, the principle of confidentiality has been violated since it is known that
the personal data of the complainant were improperly communicated to the Committee
of Company when EFS sent him the letter of warning or requirement that he addressed
to the claimant in relation to hourly credit requests.

Regarding what was stated by the SAI regarding the fact that it had to communicate it to the Committee
of Company in accordance with article 64 of the Workers' Statute, to
comply with the rights of information and consultation of the Company Committee, in
Specifically, their right to be informed and consulted on those issues that
may affect workers, it should be noted that this right should not
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

be interpreted as generically as the defendant understands -because it would mean
accept that absolutely any issue that affects the worker should
communicated to the Committee - but must be interpreted by putting it in context with
all the aforementioned precept, as required by it.

Article 64.1 of the Workers' Statute, regarding the Rights of
information and consultation and competences, establishes that the works council will have
right to be informed and consulted by the employer on those issues
that may affect the workers, as well as on the situation of the company and the
evolution of employment in the same, in the terms provided for in this article.

Information is understood as the transmission of data by the employer to the committee of
company, so that it is aware of a specific issue and can
proceed to examination. Consultation means the exchange of views and the
opening of a dialogue between the employer and the works council on a matter
determined, including, where appropriate, the issuance of a prior report by the same

From there, the article develops and specifies what should be reported and/or consulted
Company Committee and with the frequency established. As an example, and without
exhaustive character, expressly determines that it must be informed:

2. d) From the statistics on the rate of absenteeism and the causes, the accidents of
work and occupational diseases and their consequences, rates of
accident rate,…

3. You will also have the right to receive information, at least annually, regarding the
application in the company of the right to equal treatment and opportunities between
women and men…

4. The works council, with the periodicity that proceeds in each case, will have
right to:

b) Know the models of written employment contract used in the company
as well as the documents related to the termination of the employment relationship.

c) Be informed of all sanctions imposed for very serious offenses.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

d) Be informed by the company of the parameters, rules and instructions in which
the algorithms or artificial intelligence systems that affect decision-making are based on
decisions that may affect working conditions, access and
maintenance of employment, including profiling.

Likewise, the works council will have the right to receive the basic copy of the
contracts…

5. … right to be informed and consulted on the employment situation and structure
in the company or in the workplace...

Likewise, you will have the right to be informed and consulted on all decisions of
the company that could cause relevant changes in terms of the organization of the
work and employment contracts in the company...

Therefore, article 64.1 is not establishing the right of the Company Committee to
be informed about absolutely any issue that affects or may affect the
worker, but in the way and to the extent that it develops.

In the same way, it is not appropriate to rely on their right to be informed
on absenteeism in the company, since the precept refers to the rate of
absenteeism, that is, to statistical information and not to the absences of a
specific worker.

Regarding what was stated by the SAI that the transferred information does not affect
especially sensitive personal data that must be protected,
warns that the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, collected in
Article 18.4 of the Spanish Constitution, refers to any data of the person
in the spheres in which it operates, so that the data related to the name and
surnames, DNI number and circumstances related to requests for hourly credits and
to work shifts fulfilled or not fulfilled, are data protected by the regulations
in terms of data protection.

Therefore, all personal data about natural persons are subject to the protection
provided by the regulations on the protection of personal data, not being necessary
for this, they must be "sensitive" or have the character of categories
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

special data (article 9 of the RGPD). For these purposes, it is appropriate to cite the STC
292/2000, of November 30, when it indicates that data protection is not reduced
to the intimate data of the person, but to any type of personal data, whether or not
intimate, whose knowledge or use by third parties may affect their rights, whether
fundamental or not, because its object is not only individual intimacy.

Thus, the RGPD -and, therefore, the rest of the regulations on the matter- applies to the treatment
of personal data of natural persons without exception, defining in its article
4.1 as "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

The right to data protection protects those affected against the "treatment" of
the same, which is defined in art. 4.2 of the RGPD as any operation on
personal data, whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection,
registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification,
extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any
another form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or
destruction.

In conclusion, the data protection legislation is applicable to the treatment of
data made by an employer regarding workers, with
regardless of the category of personal data in question.

As for what was indicated by SAI, in relation to the fact that no transfer has been given to
"third parties", but to the members of the Company Committee, who are entitled to
have access to that information, who must also have signed a
confidentiality document, it is stated that the Company Committee has the right to
be informed, but with the scope determined by article 64 itself, as stated
has indicated previously. Also, the fact that they are subject to a duty of
secrecy regarding the information that has been communicated to them does not imply a
authorization to have access to all types of personal data of workers.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

In this sense, the principle of minimization must be taken into account from the
in view of the proportionality of the processing and its purpose. Different standards
labor laws and regulations, including the Workers' Statute,
they attribute a wide range of powers to the representatives of the people
women workers and in particular the works council and union delegates
(art.10.3 of the Organic Law on Freedom of Association). In some cases, the exercise
These faculties may involve data processing.

However, this potential access to personal data must be governed by the
strict compliance with data protection principles: they may only
communicate data when it is strictly necessary for the fulfillment of the
duties that the Workers' Statute establishes for the company. and in all
those cases in which the information can be presented statistically or
anonymized allowing the committee to fulfill its functions, this will be chosen
method. Therefore, if it is not absolutely necessary, you should not
include the DNI along with the name and surname of the worker, as has happened
in the present case.

Finally, it should be noted that all of the foregoing must be understood without prejudice to the fact that the
art. 88 of the RGPD allows that, through legal provisions or collective agreements,
more specific rules are established in order to offer a better and more
adapted protection of the right to data protection in the field of
labor Relations.

For its part, article 64.9 of the Workers' Statute establishes that
Respecting what is established by law or regulation, collective agreements
may establish specific provisions relating to the content and modalities
exercise of the information and consultation rights provided for in this article, as well as
as well as the most appropriate level of representation to exercise them.

In the present case, however, no other regulations have been justified by the SAI.
sector or collective agreement that justifies the communication to the Company Committee of
the information that contained personal data of the claimed party (DNI number and
data related to possible breaches of schedules) which supposes a violation
of the duty of confidentiality.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

For all the above and in accordance with the evidence available in
this agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what
result of the investigation, it is considered that the known facts could be
constituting an infraction, attributable to SAIs, for violation of article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

IV

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

v

Sanction for the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
accordance with the evidence available at the present time.
agreement to initiate sanctioning proceedings and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, taking into account the circumstances of the case and the criteria established
article 83.2 of the RGPD and article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, with respect to the
infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, allows
initially set a fine of €1,000 (THOUSAND EUROS).

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START A SANCTION PROCEDURE for EFS MAINTENANCE AND
SERVICIOS TÉCNICOS, S.L., with NIF B61782801, for the alleged infringement of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: THAT for the purposes provided in article 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
of October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP), the sanction that may correspond, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction, would be:

ONE THOUSAND EUROS (€1,000), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified
in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

THIRD: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and, as secretary, to S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation.

SIXTH: NOTIFY this agreement to EFS MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES
TÉCNICOS, S.L., with NIF B61782801, granting a hearing period of ten days
able to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient. In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
this initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 800 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 800 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 600 euros.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (800 euros or 600 euros), you must make it effective through your
Deposit in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.,
indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-231221

>>

SECOND: On May 7, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 800 euros making use of one of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there is no
accredited acknowledgment of responsibility.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Home Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00290/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to EFS MAINTENANCE AND
TECHNICAL SERVICES, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

937-240122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

