Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus elected Chair of the European Data Protection Board 


   


Publication date 
25.5.2023
 14.38
| Published in English on 31.5.2023 at 12.48


Press release
var snoobiSection = "Press release";



 The Data Protection Ombudsman of Finland, Anu Talus, has been elected as the next Chair of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB). The EDPB is responsible for the uniform application of the EU General Data Protection Regulation and Law Enforcement Directive. The European Data Protection Board elected a new Chair in its plenary session of 25 May, as Andrea Jelinek's term as Chair drew to a close.  The Chair was elected for a term of five years. The Chair of the EDPB represents the Board and monitors the fulfilment of its duties. ”The new Chair of the European Data Protection Board faces exciting challenges but has a solid foundation on which to build for the future. The EU General Data Protection Regulation has become a global milestone as the most comprehensive piece of data protection legislation in the world”, Jelinek says. ”I am honoured and grateful to be elected EDPB Chair and I see it as a token of appreciation by my fellow heads of DPA. As a closely integrated network of DPAs, the EDPB has the important task of ensuring that 450 million Europeans enjoy the same level of data protection, regardless of where they live”, Talus says. ”Part of the newly adopted EU digital legislation overlaps with the GDPR. Going forward, it is crucial to ensure that the legal framework related to the data protection is coherent, that the competences of the EDPB are safeguarded and that fragmentation is avoided”, Talus says. Irene Loizidou Nikolaidou was elected Vice Chair of the EDPB. Aleid Wolfsen, elected earlier, will continue as the other Vice Chair. His term will end on 15 May 2024. Anu Talus has served as Data Protection Ombudsman since 2020 and will continue in her position also during her term as Chair of the EDPB. She is the director of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman and represents Finland on the EDPB. Before her current post, Talus has worked as Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman, and Senior Adviser for Legislative Affairs at the Ministry of Justice. Talus is Doctor of Laws and Master of the Arts by education. Further information: Data Protection Ombudsman Anu Talus, anu.talus(at)om.fi, tel. +358 29 566 6766 EDPB release: Anu Talus elected new Chair of the European Data Protection Board (25 May 2023) The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is an independent EU body consisting of the EU's national data protection authorities and the European Data Protection Supervisor's representative. The EEA member states Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein are also members of the EDPB. The EDPB is responsible for the uniform application of the EU General Data Protection Regulation and Law Enforcement Directive. 













