

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Processing of personal data from publicly available registers and proposal for entry into the catalog entitled Trade and Trade Register (UOOU-02631/20)
Company


The Office received a complaint about not reflecting the raised objection against the processing of personal data in the sense of Article 21 of the General Regulation. The complainant stated in his complaint that he had tried several times to contact the company by phone and e-mail, always to no avail. From the documents received, the Office learned that the company had sent the complainant a letter with the specified identification number, with the inscription in the header of the letter: "Trade register and business". In the letter, the company offered the complainant registration in this register for a fee and stated that the register will contain data on business entities in the Czech Republic and will only be accessible to entrepreneurs and companies registered in this register. The Office launched an inspection because it was suspected of a violation of Article 5 and Article 6 of the General Regulation, consisting in the fact that personal data were processed in an incorrect, illegal and non-transparent manner, in order to send an unsolicited, addressed offer of services. The subject of the control was compliance with the obligations in the processing of personal data set out in the General Regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection with the processing of personal data, especially in the scope of the obligations under Article 5, Article 6, Article 7 , Article 12, Article 14 to 22 and Article 30 of the General Regulation, both in the scope of the filed complaint and in the area of the general procedure for transferring personal data. processed by the company on the website declared by it, which it stated in its letter to the complainant, and found that no personal data was accessible on the website. Even so, the Office concluded in the protocol that the company violated Article 6 point 1 of the General Regulation (EU), because personal did not process the data on the basis of a proper legal title, if it addressed persons registered in the public register with this nature of the offer of services. Although the complainant stated that he tried several times to contact the company for ú faced with an objection to the processing of personal data in question, however, due to the fact that he did not prove this fact at the request of the Office, it was not possible to assess whether the company in this case fulfilled its obligations arising from Article 12 et seq. of the general regulation. The company submitted objections against the inspection findings stated in the inspection protocol, which were, however, rejected by the Chairman of the Office.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Sale of goods and services > Processing of personal data from publicly available registers and proposal for entry into the catalog entitled Trade and Trade Register (UOOU-02631/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



