  

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

Berlin, February 8th, 2022

 

 

Safer Internet Day: BlnBDI publishes new teaching materials for

elementary schools

 

On the occasion of Safer Internet Day 2022, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and

Freedom of Information (BlnBDI) new teaching materials for elementary schools on the subject

Internet privacy and security. They learn in five different teaching units

Among other things, students what personal data is, what rights they have and what

there are things to keep in mind when teaching online.

 

Volker Brozio, Acting Head of the BlnBDI: "As a data protection authority, it is important to us

Concern to sensitize children early on to possible dangers in dealing with their data and to

to teach you how to use the internet safely. The new lessons lead children aged from

6-12 years playfully on currently relevant topics such as safe homeschooling and protection against

approaching cyberbullying. We are thus supplementing our media-educational work with an offer for

teachers.”

 

The materials are aimed at grades 4 to 6, but can also be used for higher grades

be adjusted. The teaching units are each designed and included for one lesson

In addition to worksheets, there are also detailed instructions and background information for teachers.

The following themes are available:

 

 

o Personal data
o Rights in data protection

o Monetization of data

o Privacy in homeschooling

o Privacy and cyberbullying

 
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information (BlnBDI)

Friedrichstr. 219, 10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance: Puttkamerstr. 16-18

 

 
 
Phone: (030) 13889-900
Fax: (030) 215 50 50

Responsible: Simon Rebiger
Office: Cristina Vecchi

 
 
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
Internet: www.datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 



Interested teachers can download the teaching materials at https://data-kids.de/fuer-lehrkraefte

download. Mr. Leonard is available for questions about the media education offer of the BlnBDI
Bergmann at: medienkompetenz@datenschutz-berlin.de.

2

 

