Operator of Facebook fan pages
bear privacy responsibility!

 

European Court of Justice confirms German data
Protection supervisory authorities: Operators of Facebook fan pages can
be (jointly) responsible for data processing by Facebook

Press Release – Page 1/4
Munich, June 5th, 2018

The Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ) ruled today
confirms that the operator of a Facebook fan page - in addition to Facebook
- is responsible under data protection law for the fact that Facebook data of
collects fan page visitors to create visitor statistics.

The starting point for the decision is an administrative
legal dispute between the Schleswig-Holstein Business Academy
GmbH and the Independent State Center for Data Protection Schles-
wig-Holstein (ULD). The company took the view that it should
operate a Facebook fan page without having to worry about it,
whether Facebook complies with data protection law. The ECJ has now made it clear
that this view is not compatible with European data protection law
is: "The fact that an operator of a fan page uses Facebook
established platform uses to provide the associated services in
To take advantage of this can not namely from the observance of his
Obligations in the field of personal data protection
free.” (Paragraph 40 of the judgment)

In terms of data protection, who is responsible for the purposes and means
decides on the processing of personal data. The ECJ has
determined that the concept of responsible person is to be interpreted broadly,
for effective and comprehensive protection of the persons concerned
to guarantee. The operator of a Facebook fan page is involved in
the decision on the purposes and means of processing personal

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05.06.2018 – page 2/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
related data of the visitors to his fan page. He
designs and supports its own information and communication offerings
 
thus to the processing of the personal data of the visitors
to a fan page. Since Facebook also has the purposes and means of processing
processing, Facebook and operators of Facebook
Fanpages jointly uphold the data protection responsibility
gain weight.

The ECJ explains that a fan page operator is not just a Facebook
user, but as the person responsible gives Facebook the opportunity
to set cookies through the operation of the fan page and in particular with
With the help of filters provided by Facebook, the criteria
can determine according to which statistics are to be created. For the responsible
bility is not decisive that access to the concerned
personal data exists.

The ECJ also confirms that the ULD requires regulatory measures
men against the Schleswig-Holstein-based operator of a face
book fan page. Alone the possibility of prudential
to influence Facebook, includes measures against the co-responsible
mutual providers of a Facebook fan page are not sufficient.

The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Marit Hansen
welcomes the judgment of the ECJ: "The decision has my assessment
confirms that there are no liability gaps in data protection
can. In concrete terms, this now means for all fan page operators that between
between you and Facebook, it must be clarified which data protection obligations
they have to fulfill themselves and for which Facebook is responsible.
This applies in particular to the information obligations: without transparency,
like the data about all users – i. H. Members and Non-Members
by Facebook - are processed, this does not work. At the loading
meeting rights, e.g. B. the right to information or correction, the following applies:
Anyone can assert these rights both towards the fan page operator and
also claim directly against Facebook.”

Hansen thinks it is necessary that questions about the General Data Protection Regulation
be submitted to the ECJ earlier in the future: "For legal certainty is
rapid judicial clarification is essential. judicial proceedings too
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05.06.2018 – page 3/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
such fundamental questions belong in the fast lane. I am of it
convinced that some cases of data abuse – I remind you
 
Cambridge Analytica - could have been prevented if already
2011 all German or even European fan page operators the data
would have demanded protection compliance for their offers.”

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection Thomas Petri
recommends that the Bavarian public authorities, based on the judgment,
Critically review public relations work at social media providers.
Petri: "The European Court of Justice has made it unmistakably clear that
that the operator of a fan page does not thereby lose sight of his
is exempt from data protection obligations that he
uses the platform provided by the provider. For data processing by companies
cebook and other social media are already numerous throughout Europe
Complaints received by data protection authorities. given
Based on previous experience, it would not be surprising if
Facebook data also against the standard of the General Data Protection Regulation
processed unlawfully. Either social media must adapt to the in
comply with data protection regulations in force in Europe or they cannot
be used responsibly. Potential benefits in public
work do not justify data protection violations."

 

Marit Hansen

 

 

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05.06.2018 – page 4/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 

 
 
If you have any questions, please contact:
 
 
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
Wagmüllerstrasse 18, 80538 Munich
Tel: 089 212672-0, Fax: -50
Email: poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de
https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de
 
The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstr. 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
Email: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de
https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/
 

 

 

The state commissioner for data protection in Schleswig-Holstein is also the head of the independent
pending State Center for Data Protection (ULD) and for data protection compliance of
authorities, companies and associations in Schleswig-Holstein.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations.

The two state representatives are elected by their respective state parliament, and are independent
bound by instructions to no one.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

