1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00228/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 3, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (*hereinafter, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the installation of a video camera-
surveillance oriented towards public road obtaining images of third party (s) without
just cause.

"This electronic device is located on the farm of the defendant referenced
in the geographical position of the following coordinates 42º 53´(according to Google Maps) of the
place ***PLACE.1”.

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence that proves the presence of two
cameras in the middle of a road in a rural area, without specifying a priori the ownership of the
land.

It also provides documentary evidence of a camera installed on the side of

a tree focusing on private space without just cause.

Photograph of the new cameras (the two white balls) in the chest below
from the solar panel, taken from our farm the day they appeared (01/25/20). I know
appreciate the closure of our farm with wire and the path we travel to
enter and exit our farm.

SECOND. On 03/23/20, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the
denounced so that he could allege what he deemed appropriate in law.

THIRD. On 07/15/20, a written statement was received from the defendant
stating the following:

-The cameras are installed in a single-family home in an outdoor area

landscaped, its purpose being to protect the home from intruders (...).

-It has a total of two cameras being responsible for the installation of

the same.

- Term of conservation of the same: 2 months.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FOURTH. When the database of this Agency was consulted, there was a Complaint
associated with the procedure with reference number ***PROCEDURE.1, which ended in
the following terms:

“WARN (XXXXXX) Don B.B.B. in accordance with the provisions of article
45.6 of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on Data Protection of
Personal Character, in relation to the complaint for violation of article 6.1 of the
LOPD, typified as a SERIOUS infringement in article 44.3 b) of the aforementioned Law
Organic”

FIFTH. On November 5, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SIXTH: On 03/10/21, a resolution proposal is issued in which it is considered
accredited the commission of the infringement of articles 5.1 c) and e) RGPD, proposing
a respective penalty of €3,000 and €1,000, by having a camera system with
Recording of images for a time greater than that allowed in the regulations.

SEVENTH: On 05/13/21, a response is received from the respondent through the
which shows the following:

“The rationale for the proposal is based on the fact that the cameras are
oriented towards a transit area, pointing out the jurisprudence on the condition
of public of the roads (...)

It is important to note that the corresponding
previous allegations, in which in addition to the cadastral document of my property without
reflection of any public road, old property titles have been provided.

As a consequence of numerous damages to my property, and given the impunity
of not being able to prove the authorship, I find myself in the need to protect the property and the
safety of my family.

It is attached as Doc. No. 1 Complaint of the year 2019 about damage to my

property.

In view of the terms of the Complaint filed (evidence provided) there is no

there is only the necessary file of the sanctioning file that has been initiated against me.

Therefore, the facts actually accredited and occurred are NOT
constituting any infringement. In this regard, the AEPD cannot carry out a
reversal of the burden of proof or assuming that the cameras are on
public road, when the matter is prosecuted, in the same way that the Judge
Instructor in the sentence provided does not do it”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

FACTS

First. On 02/03/20, a claim is received at this Agency through the
which translates as the main fact the following:

"This electronic device is located on the farm of the defendant referenced
in the geographical position of the following coordinates 42º 53´(according to Google Maps) of the
place ***PLACE.1”.

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence that proves the presence of two
cameras in the middle of a road in a rural area, without specifying a priori the ownership of the
land.

It also provides documentary evidence of a camera installed on the side of

a tree focusing on private space without just cause.

Second. He is accredited as the main person responsible for the installation of the
cameras Don B.B.B., with DNI ***DNI.1.

Third. It is accredited that the accused retains the personal data
(stored) for a period longer than that legally marked: two
months.

Fourth. There is evidence of the presence of recording devices on land in
dispute between the parties, which has been fenced off by the claimed party, being able to easily
address them at will.

Fifth. There is no type of fabric that limits the fence, which allows the capture
excessive images of anyone who moves freely in the vicinity.

Sixth. There is no evidence that there is a firm judicial pronouncement on the ownership of the
land in question, the controversy being judicialized between the parties.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

On 02/03/20, this Agency received a claim from the complainant for

means of which transfers as main fact the following:

“Installation of a video-surveillance camera on a public road, obtaining

images of third party(ies) without just cause” (folio nº 1).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

The facts "are also denounced at the National Police Station
***LOCATION.1 through Certificate No. ***CERTIFICATE.1 accrediting it here
manifested (...)”.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that
installed systems comply with current legislation, proving that the same
comply with all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

Also with this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of space
public, as this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the
Condition.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, which are seen
intimidated by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding
punisher, it is considered that the defendant has proceeded to install a system of
cameras, which is oriented towards public space affecting transit areas of
third parties, without just cause.

It should be noted that to date there is no firm judicial pronouncement

that determines the private ownership of the land.

All this leads us to conclude, taking into account the Mortgage Legislation
in force, that the registration title would be the only one enforceable against third parties. Ultimately, it
valid is what is contemplated in the Property Registry and not in the Cadastre that
does not attest to ownership.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

The installation of cameras is an exceptional measure, and should be weighed
conflicting interests, especially when it is not intended to protect a
housing and its belongings against hypothetical theft, but are located in the middle of
land, between which there is a dispute between the parties.

It is precisely this "dispute" that is the root of the main problem between the parties,
consider the claimed that the land is private, while the part
claimant (along with other residents of the locality) consider that they are of a
public, being therefore municipal competence.

No irrefutable documentary evidence has been provided on this aspect.
issued by the corresponding Consistory, especially if, as the parties affirm, the
matter is in court, without any pronouncement on the matter on the day of the
date.

The foregoing would justify by itself that "ad cautelam" the land
remains unchanged, as long as there is no firm judicial pronouncement to the
respect, even more so the presence of the cameras can be considered as an element
intimidating, away from the claim of family protection wielded by the
claimant.

Thus, the measure, far from being "proportionate", is considered excessive,
because the mere fencing of the land is sufficient for the protection of the area, being able to
the installed cameras carry out a "data processing" on a terrain on whose
nature there is no firm judicial pronouncement, giving rise to certain rights
that if not confirmed in court, they suppose an unnecessary affectation to the
third party rights.

The presence of the installed devices is for a purpose other than that of
wielded by the claimed party, which is none other than control of the plot, being a
another element to avoid any type of use by third parties, which is considered
unnecessary for the reasons stated.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the defendant, for
violation of the content of art. 5.1 c) RGPD, previously transcribed.

IV

The defendant states in his pleadings brief (07/15/20) that the term

conservation of the images is 2 months.

“The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its
collection, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of
acts that threaten the integrity of persons, property or facilities. In that
case, the images must be made available to the competent authority in
within a maximum period of seventy-two hours from the date of knowledge of the
existence of the recording” (art. 22 section 3 LOPDGDD).

The foregoing supposes the commission of an infringement of art. 5.1 e) RGPD that

provides the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

“maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties
for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of data processing
personal (…)”.

It should be noted that the defendant has been widely warned by this
organism in the matter, which supposes at least a negligent conduct in the
maintenance of the data beyond what is legally permitted, which justifies the
proposal of a sanction encrypted in the amount of €1,000 for the conduct described.

v

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

- the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered; (art. 83.2 a) RGPD).

- the intent or negligence in the infringement; (art. 83.2 b) RGPD).

- any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the

treatment; (art. 83.2 f) RGPD).

There is a warning prior to the denounced, within the framework of the procedure
***PROCEDURE.1 for installation of a video-surveillance device towards the
traffic, ignoring the warnings of this Agency.

The defendant has not accredited the ownership of the land, nor has he contributed in his
case images (date and time) that certify in a situation plan what in your case
is protecting, in relation to the home it owns.

So, in relation to the behavior described, a sanction of
€3,000, for the maintenance of a video-surveillance system whose characteristics
has not explained, oriented to the transit area of third parties without just cause,
infringement of art. 5.1 c) GDPR cited above.

For all these reasons, it is considered correct to impose a final sanction encrypted in the
amount of €4,000 (Four Thousand Euros) for the commission of two infractions (art. 5.1 c) and
e) RGPD), as the cameras are affecting the public area, processing data from third parties
without just cause, being a repeat offender in the facts object of the complaint, as well as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

for keeping the images for a period of time longer than legally
established.

Finally, this body must remind the parties of the importance of the
rights at stake, not having to instrumentalize this Agency in continuous disputes
neighbors, on judicialized matters of a civil nature, being advisable to resolve
the same in the opportune instances, avoiding the use of video cameras-
Surveillance as an “intimidating” element or away from the purpose of the same.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of Article 5.1.c)
of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €3,000 (Three Thousand
euros).

SECOND: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article
5.1.e) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of 1,000 euros
(A thousand euros).

THIRD: ORDER the defendant based on the provisions of article 58.2 d)
RGPD that within 1 month proceeds:

- Withdrawal from the chambers until the civil litigation maintained between

the parts.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

