

Bonn/Berlin, January 27, 2019


Press release 03/2019


  On the 13th European Data Protection Day: The GDPR needs to get even better
After a bumpy start, a lot of uncertainty and some false reports, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is slowly finding its way into the everyday lives of citizens, companies and authorities. However, the first few months with the new data protection law also show that not all data protection problems have been solved in one fell swoop.

The 27,000 complaints received by the German supervisory authorities since May 25, 2018 and more than 12,000 reported data protection violations show that business and administration are preparing for the challenges of the new law and that people are asserting their rights with confidence. At the same time, the figures make it clear that there is still a lot to be done. The current events in connection with the publication of stolen data have drawn attention to the fact that digitization can only succeed in the long term with good data protection. Business, administration, politics, but also each and every individual must work together to achieve this. The GDPR offers good conditions for this in Europe - but also beyond.
On the occasion of the 13th European Data Protection Day, the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Ulrich Kelber, dares to take a look into the future, in which the evaluation of the GDPR is due next year: Digitization needs trust and transparency. The risks of creating comprehensive profiles, scoring or algorithm-based decisions must be placed much more in the focus of data protection law. These fully automated processes, which have a massive impact on people's lives, must be comprehensible and highly transparent for people. On the other hand, we have to take the criticism of a less targeted bureaucratization seriously and take a close look at where the GDPR can be streamlined without weakening data protection.
The European Data Protection Day has been celebrated annually on January 28 since 2007 on the initiative of the Council of Europe. It commemorates the signing of Convention 108 of the Council of Europe in 1981. Convention 108 is the most important legally binding treaty on data protection and was modernized in 2018 with an amending protocol.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











