 
 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

REPRIMAND 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
University Hospitals Dorset NHS Foundation Trust (the Trust) in 
accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK General Data Protection 
Regulation in respect of certain infringements of the UK GDPR.  
 
The proposed reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to the Trust in 
respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

  Article 5(1)(f) of the UK GDPR which states: “appropriate technical 

and organisational measures to be taken against unauthorised or 
unlawful processing of personal data and against accidental loss or 
destruction of, or damage to, personal data.” 

 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
The Trust had a procedure in place that when issuing correspondence by 
letter would include the full postal address of other recipients of that 
letter without obtaining their consent to do so. This was done by way of 
cc at the bottom of the letter. Appropriate consideration had not been 
paid to the risk of this standard practice in relation to data protection and 
the potential impact that a disclosure could have on a data subject.  
 
In this case, an address was disclosed to an ex-partner of the data 
subject, something they particularly wished to be withheld following 
previous allegations of abuse. The data subject had not advised the Trust 
that his address should not be disclosed to his ex-partner. However, it is 
considered that it would not be in his reasonable expectation that 
personal information would be disclosed without permission being sought. 
While the data subject has made no further complaint to the Trust, there 
is now a risk of unwanted contact which will remain. 
 
In addition, the Trust did not have a clear process in place for managing 
such situations where there are parental disputes. It was noted that the 
Trust admitted that it did not have any formal system to flag patients for 
this kind of scenario, to ensure that personal data is not shared and 
remains restricted. It was also noted that there was no formal training 
provided to the administration staff involved for dealing with 
correspondence in these circumstances.  

 

1 

 
However, the primary concern was that the Trust had a process in place, 
which posed significant risk due to proactive disclosure of the data 
subject’s personal data. It is the fact that this risk was not considered or 
identified, and that a formal process to obtain consent was not in place, 
that it is considered that this matter warrants a reprimand. 
 
Mitigating factors 
 
We have noted that the Trust stated that prior to the incident there had 
been no instance where one parent had objected to their details being 
shared with the other, in the way this situation occurred. 
 
It is also noted that no formal complaint was made by the data subject at 
the time. There has been no evidence seen that a formal complaint been 
made since, or that any request has been made to escalate the issue to a 
formal complaint. 
 
It is also recognised that the Trust’s intent by this practice was to prevent 
any errors when manually writing addresses on envelopes when posting 
to the third parties concerned.  
 
Remedial steps taken by the Trust 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by the Trust in the light of this incident.  
 
In particular, that in the immediate aftermath of the incident, an apology 
was issued to the data subject, in person from a doctor and from the 
Directorate Manager. The Trust also began a thorough investigation into 
the matter and an action plan implemented to ensure that remedial 
measures were completed.  
 
It has been noted that the Trust has undertaken a benchmarking exercise 
with other organisations in order to set a clear policy position for the Child 
Health directorate for handling situations where there may be parental 
disputes. This benchmarking exercise should help the Trust in establishing 
good practices going forward.  
 
The Commissioner welcomes the efforts made by the Trust to implement 
practices where similar situations can be more immediately recognised. 
Such as the procedure proposed by the Trust where, when requested by a 
parent, a clinician dictating a letter would note that a duplicate letter 
should be blind copied to the other parent. 
 
These remedial measures, when fully implemented by the Trust should 
ensure that a similar incident is much less likely to occur in the future.  

 

2 

 
Decision to issue reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to the Trust in relation to the infringements of Article 
5(1)(f) of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that the Trust should take certain steps 
to ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular reference to 
Article 5(1)(f) of the UK GDPR, the following steps are recommended: 
 

1  It is recommended that the Trust complete a review of its practices, 
incorporating any relevant learnings from the benchmarking exercise 
to identify any further areas of risk. 
 

2  The Trust should also ensure that areas identified by the action plan 

are fully implemented and subject to regular review. 

 

 

3 

