1/8

 File No.: EXP202104667

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On May 3, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against COMPANY.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: EXP202104667

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated November 15
of 2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The
The claim is directed against EMPRESA.1 with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the re-
called). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

“The claimed establishment has video surveillance cameras on its façade.
lancia oriented to its terrace, capable of capturing the public thoroughfare, without counting on
prior administrative authorization for it” (folio no. 1).

Along with the notification, photographic material is provided (Annex I) that proves the presence
of what is asserted in your claim document.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the party claimed on fe-
date 11/18/21 and 12/09/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency
within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
cas (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected after postal notification on 12/23/21
as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

THIRD: On 12/31/21, a response was received from the claimed party that in
essence confirms the installation of a security system by the company (...) contributing
copy of the contract signed by the parties.

FOURTH: On February 15, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each authori-
quality of control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulations
comments dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sisidario, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

In the present case, the claim dated 11/15/21 is examined by means of
of which the alleged irregularity in the orientation of a device is transferred
video surveillance, which could affect public space without just cause.

"It has security cameras installed on its façade facing the area

public that is transit (...)"-folio nº 1--.

The art. 5.1 c) GDPR provides the following: Personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are processed ("data minimization").

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, certifying that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative poster
tive, indicating the purposes and person responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit thereof without just cause.

Neither with this type of device can you obtain an image(s) of public space.
since this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the State
tado.

It should be remembered that even if it is a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimate
measured by it in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

The purpose of this type of device must be the security of the property and
its inhabitants, avoiding the affectation of the rights of third parties who are intimidated
two with the same

II

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the claimed party has a camera system
video surveillance for security reasons, without clarifying what is captured
in your case with the same.

The known facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed, for violation of the content of art. 5.1 c) GDPR, previously cited.

IV.

The art. 83.5 GDPR provides the following: "Violations of the following provisions
These will be penalized, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
000 000 EUR maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount
to a maximum of 4% of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
previous year, opting for the one with the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment including the conditions for the

consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9 (…)”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

In accordance with the foregoing, it is considered correct to propose an initial sanction
of €300, by having a poorly oriented video surveillance device, visible from
abroad, affecting the rights of third parties passing through the area, although there is
taking into account the prior collaboration of the defendant, as well as any other sanction
via in the matter, a sanction located on the lower scale for this type of behavior.
to.

The obvious bad orientation of the device in question makes us consider the
conduct as negligence at least serious, when being aware of the disturbance to the de-
right of third parties without just cause.

V

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the controller or processor
that the processing operations comply with the provisions of this
Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period.
cified…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of
Administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be considered
classified as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, typified
as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the opening
of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

The claimed party must complete the prior statements made upon being
considered insufficient to clarify the legality of the system, providing all the documentation
necessary documentation (vgr. printing date and time of what is observed, specifying
of the number of cameras, informative poster, etc).

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection tab,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE for COMPANY.1, with NIF
***NIF.1, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1 c) GDPR, by having a
camera disproportionately oriented towards public space, typified in the
art. 83.5 GDPR, being punishable in accordance with art. 58.2 GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT as instructor B.B.B. and, as secretary to C.C.C., indicate-
meaning that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions
in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of
Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATING into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
petition filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the documents

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

ments obtained and generated by the General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection in
the actions prior to the start of this disciplinary procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
tube, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
sanction that could correspond would be €300, without prejudice to what results from the
instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to COMPANY.1, with NIF ***NIF.1, granting
give him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and
Submit any evidence you deem appropriate. In your statement of allegations you must-
You will need to provide your NIF and the number of the procedure that appears in the heading of the
this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the pre-
set start agreement; which will entail a 20% reduction in blood
tion that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 240 euros, resolving the procedure
with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which supposes
will give a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction, the
tion would be established at 240 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.
I lie.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
set at €180.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or waiver of any action or appeal through administrative
treatment against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated €240 or €180, you must make it effective by depositing it in
account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection tab at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in
the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading
of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it accepts.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the Sub-directorate General of Ins-
expectation to continue with the procedure in accordance with the amount entered.
gives.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the date of
date of the initiation agreement or, where applicable, of the draft initiation agreement. Elapsed-
After this period, its expiration will take place and, consequently, the file of actions;
in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPA-
CAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-110422

>>

SECOND: On May 19, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the penalty in the amount of 240 euros making use of one of the two reductions
provided for in the Startup Agreement transcribed above. Therefore, there has not been
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in the
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202104667, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to COMPANY.1.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

937-240122

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

