 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.413.3 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e m i t t e i l u n g 

November 14th, 2019 

Data Protection Commissioner: Google Analytics and Similar Services Only to Be Used 
With Consent of Website Visitors 
 
Website operators require the consent of their website visitors if third party services are 
integrated into those websites whenever the provider of those services also uses the personal 
data obtained this way for its own purposes. One of those providers is Google Analytics, as 
the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, 
emphasises. 
 
This spring, the German supervisory authorities published a Guideline for Providers of Tele-
Media (“Orientierungshilfe für Anbieter von Telemedien”1) and laid out in detail the conditions 
under which tracking of website visitors is permitted. Nevertheless, the Berlin Commissioner 
for Data Protection continues to receive a large number of complaints about websites that 
disregard the guidance given. 
 
Website analytics tools that pass on data on user’s behaviour to third parties may only be used 
on the basis of user consent whenever those third parties also use the data for their own 
purposes. The same applies if the behaviour of website visitors can be traced and recorded in 
detail, e.g. if keystrokes, mouse or swiping movements are recorded. On the other hand, it 
may be considered permissible for a website operator to measure the number of visitors that 
reach a given website, or page, and to collect data about the type of device they use and their 
language settings for this purpose, even if this is done by a processor. However, a processor 
may not use the data for his own purposes, as the provider of Google Analytics now reserves 
the right to do. 
 
Maja Smoltczyk: 
"When integrating Google Analytics, many website operators refer to old publications that have 
been obsolete for a long time and were withdrawn due to continuous product changes, such 
as the old “Information for Website Operators in Berlin who use Google Analytics”. In recent 
years, the Google Analytics product has been changed in a way that, in its current form, it can 
no longer be considered exclusively as a processing operation on behalf of a controller. 
Rather, Google grants itself the right to use the data about website visitors for its own 
purposes. The integration of Google Analytics therefore requires consent in a way that meets 
the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Most of the so-called 
cookie banners that we see in practice do not meet these legal requirements. 
 
 

                                                
1 https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/oh/20190405_oh_tmg.pdf. 
 

 
Verantwortlich: Dalia Kues 

Geschäftsstelle: Cristina Vecchi 

E-Mail: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de 
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219 
10969 Berlin 

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900 
Fax: 030 2155050 

 

 

 

 

    

- 2 - 

 
Website operators in Berlin should immediately check their website for third-party content and 
tracking mechanisms. Anyone using features that require consent must either obtain consent 
or remove the feature. Consent is only effective, if the user gives his or her unambiguous and 
informed consent to the specific data processing. A so-called cookie banner, which assumes 
that mere further surfing on the website or something similar means consent, is insufficient. 
The same applies to ticked boxes that need to be unchecked to withhold consent. This 
assessment of the GDPR is definite, and the European Court of Justice expressly confirmed it 
in its judgement of 1st October 2019.2" 
 
What constitutes an effective consent is defined in Article 4(11) of the GDPR. According to this 
definition, "consent" of the data subject means "any freely given, specific, informed and 
unambiguous indication of the data subjects wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a 
clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him 
or her". According to recital 32 of the GDPR, silence, ticked boxes or inactivity on the part of 
the data subject are therefore not to be regarded as consent. 
 
Maja Smoltczyk: 
"We have already received numerous complaints and indications about the inadmissible 
integration of third-party content. We are investigating these entries and have already initiated 
many proceedings against companies. This number will increase considerably in the future. 
Website operators who illegally integrate third-party content must not only expect to be given 
orders by the supervisory authority, but should also take into account that the GDPR threatens 
to impose large fines for such violations." 

                                                
2 ECJ, October 1st 2019, C-673/17 – „Planet49“: 
http://curia.europa.eu/juris/document/document.jsf?text=&docid=218462&pageIndex=0&doclang=
DE&mode=Ist&dire=&occ=first&part=1&cid=497860 

 

