 
 
 
 
 
Ref. N.: 11.17.001.009.019 
 
 
SENT BY EMAIL and BY CERTIFIED MAIL 
 
To: ΧΧΧΧ 
CC: ΧΧΧΧ 
 

 
Data Protection Officer  
Crowd Tech Limited  
P.O. Box 53244  
3301 Limassol 
 
Dear Sir, 
 

FINAL DECISION 

Unsolicited calls and erasure request 

19 October, 2021 

lodged 

in  Poland  against 

 
Further to the exchange of communications between Cyprus SA (the Commissioner 
for  Personal  Data  Protection)  and  Crowd  Tech  Limited  concerning  a  complaint 
involving  Trade360.com,  we  would  like  to  bring  to  your  attention  the  following 
assessment of the Commissioner. 
 
Summary of the Case 
 
A  complaint  was 
the  controller  Crowd  Tech’s 
(Trade360.com), a company whose main establishment is in Cyprus. The complaint 
was transmitted to the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection (Cyprus SA), to be 
handled as a local case. 
 
We recall that the complaint concerns the controller’s failure to comply with the erasure 
request of Mr. ΧΧΧΧ and the withdrawal of the data subject’s consent on 25.11.2020.  
 
Investigation by CY SA 
 
Cyprus  SA  contacted  with  the  controller  on  11.2.2021  and  requested  various 
information, and more particularly for this complaint: 
1.  The source of the data of the complainant. 
2.  The legal basis of processing for the calls made to the complainant. 
3.  If the processing was based on consent, specific evidence.  
4.  The reason why the erasure request of the complainant was not complied 

by the controller.  

Crowd Tech explained the following: 

1.  The source of the data of the complainant was him, when he registered over 
landing page on 20.7.2020 09:20 from the IP address ΧΧΧΧ (specific evidence 
provided such as screenshots of the registration information  stored into their 
systems). 

2.  The  legal  basis  of  processing  was  consent.  The  data  subject  entered  the 
information  and  submitted  it  over  a  click  of  a  button  in  order  to  be  further 
contacted, during the registration process.  

3.  Specific landing page with the link of the process, provided.  
4.  The  reason  of  non-compliance  with  the  erasure  request  is  that  the 
complainant’s  claimed  request  for  data  erasure  was  never  clearly  stated  or 
provided  in  writing.  It  was  just  mentioned  over  the  said  calls  without  clearly 
clarifying the initial request, while at the same time the caller (Service Provider 
of Crowd Tech) informed the complainant that the initial request could not be 
found  into their  systems.  Furthermore,  the  complainant  never  gave  the 
opportunity to the Service Provider to service and assist. Instead there was cut 
off in phone conversations.     

The  complainant  on  13.7.2021,  provided  CY  SA  with  an  unofficial  translation 
(throughout the Poland Authority and the IMI system) of the conversation he had on 
the  25.11.2020  at  13:58,  with  the  caller,  an  employee  of  the  Controller’s  Service 
Provider (i.e. the Processor).  Within the conversation, the complainant withdraws any 
consent given, saying that he does not want to be called anymore and would like his 
data to be erased (Art. 6(1)(a) and Art. 17(1)(b) of the GDPR). He specifically said: 
“But the last time we talked, I asked you to erase my data from your database. I would 
like to exercise the right to be forgotten. That was about to be done and nobody should 
not be calling me anymore”.  The Processor’s employee replied that she did not have 
this  kind  of  information  into  their  systems.  The  complainant  responded  that  he  has 
recorded  the  specific  conversation  and  will  proceed  and  send  it  to  the  right  place, 
thanking the Processor’s employee and saying that he will talk to her later. Then the 
Processor’s employee replies, “Talk to you later”.   
 
According to the content of the complaint, the complainant received another two calls. 
One  on  the  same  day  (25.11.2020  at  14:24  from  another  person  belonging  to  the 
Processor’s  team)  and  one  the  next  day  (26.11.2020  at  12:37  from  a  third  person 
belonging to the Processor’s team).  The Polish Authority did not provide us with the 
content  of  those  two  conversations,  even  though  they  seem  to  be  attached  in  mp3 
format  on  the original  complaint. Within  the written  complaint  sent,  the  complainant 
also expressed the following: 
“…despite the notification company Trade360 … about my request to realize my right 
to  be  forgotten  still  I  revive  harassing  phone  calls  from  persons  claiming  to  be 
employees  of  Trade360  and  inciting  me  to  invest  in  the  FOREX  platform.  I  have 
records of three last conversation with them (attachments). In each situation I informed 
that earlier I demand my right to erasure my personal data.” 
 
In a complementary letter of the complainant to the Polish Authority on 14.12.2020, 
the complainant says: 
“… I am not able to say whether the obtained data comes from me or was obtained in 
a different way than from me, therefore I am not able to determine which article of the 

 

2 

a 

the 

with 

page 

landing 

following 

GDPR is appropriate here. I was not informed during telephone calls where my data 
came from”. 
 
Within the transcript we have been provided on 13.7.2021 the Processor’s employee 
says to the complainant:  
“… I’m calling to you from the firm Trade360… lately we have been talking about the 
investing through the trading platform. Could you please tell me, if you can talk right 
now?”.  The  complainant  did  not  refuse  that  they  have  talked  through  the  trading 
platform. What the complainant said after that, is that the last time they have talked, 
he asked his data to be deleted from the database.  
 
Throughout  the  investigation  of  the  complaint,  the  Controller  clarified  to  us  that  the 
complainant  was  registered  as  a  client  on  20.07.2020  from  the  IP  address  ΧΧΧΧ 
through 
link: 
https://lp.trade360.com/pl/t14/stock/tesla/ffv/?TLID+9472.  Screenshot was attached. 
Actual identification of a person registering an account takes place in a Know-Your-
Client  (KYC)  process  and  by  that  any  successful  process  becomes  an  activated 
account  and  therefore  prospective  client  turns  into  an  actual  client.    As  regards 
physical person consent, any data subject can freely register over a landing page and 
submit registration details by a click of a button, therefore a clear affirmative action to 
be further contacted. The Controller use submitted data to contact registered persons. 
The Controller’s position was that the complainants claimed request for data erasure 
was never clearly stated or provided in writing. In the contrary, it was just mentioned 
over the said calls without clearly clarifying the initial request, while at the same time 
the Processor’s employees were informing the complainant that no such request could 
be  found  into  their  systems.  The  complainant  never  gave  the  opportunity  to  the 
Processor’s agents to service and assist. The complainant has been requested to give 
more information in order to track his deletion request, he never replied, and the call 
was disconnected.   
 
The  Controller  provided  an  excel  file  to  our  office,  containing  all  the  data  subject’s 
requests, the way those were submitted, and the department handling the requests.  
All  the  requests  were  submitted  either  through  email  or  though  the  chat  platform.  
Almost all the requests were handled by the Customer Support department and some 
from their Compliance Department/DPO.  
 
The Controller affirmed that the complainant’s request has been handled, as soon as 
the  complaint  was  received  by  our  Authority  on  11.2.2021.  Within  the  excel  file 
provided it is stated that the complainant’s request for data erasure was fulfilled on 
11.2.2021 by their Compliance Department/DPO.  
 
At  this  stage,  it  should  be  said  that  both  the  Controller  and  the  Processor  are 
companies  authorized  and  regulated  by  the  Cyprus  Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission.  Under  art.17(7)(6)  and  17(7)(h)  of  the  national  Law  87(I)/2017,  an 
investment company is obliged to keep records of all services and activities provided, 
and transactions undertaken by it, which shall be sufficient to enable the Commission 
to exercise its supervisory functions for a period of five years and, where requested by 
the Commission, for a period of up to seven years. There are also other regulatory 
obligations  (for  example  anti  money  laundering  “AML”)  which  might  prevent  a 
company from completely deleting a data subject’s data (please see Art. 17(3)(b) of 

 

3 

GDPR). However, an investment company can fulfil a data subject’s request, not to be 
further contacted by phone.  
 
Although we do not know the content of the other two conversations  made between 
the complainant and the Processor’s employee, we believe that the Processor should 
have  assisted  the  complainant  to  his  request,  even  though  this  was  not  made  in 
writing. The complainant clearly expressed his wish not to be further contacted and 
clearly  claimed  his  right  to  be  forgotten.  Therefore,  the  complainant’s  request  for 
deletion was successfully lodge on 25.11.2020. The Processor did not act on behalf 
of the Controller, despite the fact that within their Service Agreement the Processor 
warrants  that  “it  will  immediately  inform  the  Company  if  in  its  opinion  an  instruction 
infringes the law and/or any data protection regulations” or the fact that within the same 
Service Agreement, the Controller undertakes full responsibility “to its customers for 
any action or omission on the part of the Contractor” (i.e. the Processor).  
 
Therefore, when the complainant expressed his oral request, the Service Provider and 
consequently the Controller, had a duty under Art. 12(2) and Art. 24 to facilitate the 
exercise  of  his  rights  by  implementing  the  appropriate  technical  and  organisational 
measures to handle such oral requests. The oral request owed not to be neglected 
and  the  data  subject  should  be  assisted  with  the  fulfilment  of  his  request.  The 
Processor’s employee was either not properly trained or the Controller’s directions to 
the Processor regarding the data subject’s requests, were not clearly stated. 
 
Consequently,  when  the  complainant’s  data  was  finally  deleted  on  11.2.2021,  the 
Controller did not comply with the deadline established in Art. 12(3) of the GDPR for 
response  within  one  month  from  receipt  of  the  request.    Additionally,  when  the 
complainant withdrew his consent on 25.11.2020, the Controller did not have any other 
legal  basis  for  the  processing  after  the  erasure  request.  Therefore,  the  Controller 
processed  complainant’s  personal  data  unlawfully,  according  to  Art.6(1)(a)  of  the 
GDPR, and did not take any measures regarding the complainant’s request when the 
personal  data  were  no  longer  necessary  in  relation  to  the  purposes  for  which  they 
were  collected  (i.e.  to  contacting  registered  persons)  (Art.  17(1)(b)).    Finally,  the 
Controller had a duty under Art. 24 of the GDPR, to implement appropriate technical 
and organisational measures to ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing 
is performed in accordance with the Regulation. 
 
Commissioner’s view and corrective actions 
 
Having in mind all the above, as well as the fact that the Controller, within the Service 
Agreement, is deemed fully and unconditionally liable towards its clients, for any action 
or  omission  taken  on  the  part  of  the  Processor  when  providing  services  to  the 
Controller, I find the Controller liable for violations of the Articles 6(1)(a), 12(2), 12(3), 
17(1)(b) and 24 of the GDPR.  
 
Under the powers vested to the Commissioner for Personal Data and having in mind 
all the facts of this case, the Commissioner issues a reprimand to the Controller -
Crowd  Tech  Limited,  pursuant  to  Art.  58(2)(b).    For  this  conclusion,  the 
Commissioner  takes  into  consideration  the  fact  that  the  data  subject’s  request  was 
finally  fulfilled.  It  also  takes  into  consideration  the  cooperation  of  the  Controller, 
throughout the whole process of the investigation.  

 

4 

 
The  Commissioner  additionally  orders  the  Controller  -  Crowd  Tech  Limited,  to 
implement appropriate technical and organisational measures so as to ensure that all 
the data subject’s requests are recognized and handled appropriately by its staff.  The 
Controller shall inform the Commissioner, within a period of 3 months after receiving 
this decision, regarding the measures taken for the fulfilment of the above order.   
 
  
 
Commissioner  
for Personal Data Protection 
 

 
 
 
 

 

5 

