1/6

 File No.: EXP202103890

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: COMPAÑÍA DE BALAGUER-GENERAL DIRECTION OF THE CIVIL GUARD--
(*hereinafter, the complaining party) on October 26, 2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The motives
on which the claim is based are as follows:

“placement of a video-surveillance system in Bazar XXX without the same
is duly informed, not having an informative form available to
the clients of the establishment” (folio nº 1).

The Inspection Act of the acting force dated 10/21/21 is attached in the

that the facts object of the complaint before this Agency are verified.

SECOND: On October 29, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
clamant.

THIRD: When the database of this Agency has been consulted, it is associated with the same
claimed a previous file with number E/00811/2020, where he was reminded of the
requirements that the installed video-surveillance camera system had to meet.

In the event of not adopting the necessary measures to comply with the requirements
legally established requirements, would incur a violation of the provisions of the
data protection regulations, which could lead to the initiation of actions
of investigation and corresponding sanctions.

FOURTH: On January 10, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: The database of this Agency consulted on 02/01/22 has not been
received any response in relation to the facts object of the claim.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

First. The facts bring cause of the transfer of Complaint of the Civil Guard
(Compañía Balaguer-Comandancia Lleida) reporting the following alleged infraction
administrative tion,

“placement of a video-surveillance system in Bazar XXX without the same
is duly informed, not having an informative form available to
the clients of the establishment” (folio nº 1).

Second. It is identified as the main responsible A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1.

Third. There is evidence of the presence of a video-surveillance system that "lacks
informative label” in breach of current regulations when it comes to facilitating
You exercise the rights 12-22 RGPD to the clients of the establishment.

The foregoing is recorded in the Minutes (Complaint Bulletin) dated 10/21/21, which was ad-

attached to the transferred claim.

Fourth. It is accredited that the establishment does not have an information form(s)
tive duly conformed at the disposal of the clients of the establishment in
question.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

Before going into the substance of the matter, in the Initiation Agreement dated 12/09/21, it was
informed, that in case of not making allegations in a timely manner, the Initial Agreement
decision would be considered a “resolution proposal” in the terms of article 64.2 f) of the
Law 39/2015 (October 1).

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Regulations for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -disposition
of which the respondent was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding
to- establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content
of the initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In the
present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
cases in which the imputation was specified, the infringement of the RGPD attributed to the re-
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that the
respondent party has not made allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in
attention to the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement
cio is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

In the present case, we proceed to examine the COMPLAINT sent by the Guardia Ci-
vil (Comandancia de Lleida) in front of the Bazar XXX establishment, verifying the in-
compliance with data protection regulations by not informing customers
of the same of the way to exercise the rights in accordance with articles 15-
22 RGPD, as it has a video-surveillance system.

The facts described above imply an affectation to article 13 of the current
RGPD, since it has a video-surveillance camera system that has not
been duly informed to the set of employees and customers of the establishment
I lie.

In accordance with the aforementioned article, the person responsible for the "treatment"

will provide all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis

presenter;

treatment schedule; (...).

III

In accordance with the objective evidence available at this time,
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what is
As a result of the investigation, it is considered that the respondent party has a system of
video-surveillance that does not comply with current regulations.

Article 77 section 5 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following:

"5. The documents formalized by the officials who are recognized as
condition of authority and in which, observing the corresponding legal requirements,
teeth the facts verified by those are collected will prove them except
prove the contrary”.

The acting force transferred to the scene of the events confirms the irregularities
from the system installed in the aforementioned establishment, which affect the duty of
information regulated in art. 13 GDPR.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the party
claimed, for violation of the content of article 13 RGPD.

IV

Reporting on video surveillance according to RGPD is an obligation contained in our
legislative framework—art. 13 GDPR--.

To adapt to current regulations, the AEPD published the new mandatory poster
river that must be located in spaces that are subject to video surveillance.

Article 22 section 4 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

  “The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this information”.

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
EUR 000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.
to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

a)

b)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
 the rights of the interested parties under articles 12 to 22;

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

- the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question, as well as
the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages suffered
fried; (art. 83.2 a) RGPD), by having an operational video-surveillance system in the
establishment that it runs, but that lacks a claim form against the
images obtained with it.

- the intent or negligence in the infringement; (art. 83.2 b) RGPD), having already been
previously warned that the system must meet all the requirements
governed by the regulations in force, within the framework of E/00811/2020.

In accordance with the foregoing, it is considered correct to impose a figure-based sanction
amounts to €1,000 (Thousand Euros), as it has a camera system that does not
complies with current regulations, failing to comply with the duty to inform customers
of the same and lacking a claim form if necessary to dis-
their position, a sanction located on the lower scale for this type of behavior.
treatments.

It is recalled that in accordance with art. 58.2 d) RGPD, this body
may additionally impose mandatory measures to proceed
“in a certain way and within a specified period”.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of Article 13
of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €1,000 (one thousand euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

SECOND: ORDER the person claimed so that within ONE MONTH proceed to the
regularization of the aforementioned system, in accordance with article 58.2 d) RGPD:
-Placement in a visible place of an informative poster(s) indicating that it is

a video-monitored area.

-Availability of informative form(s) available to clients of the es-

establishment.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure Co-
of the Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the term of payment
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency
Department of Data Protection at the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case of
Otherwise, it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the payment
It will be valid until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If it is-
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-270122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

