
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09/27/2019
                                "Three years of the State Transparency Act of Rhineland-Palatinate" - an interim status on freedom of information interim status". ©
                            LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate©
                            LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate Together with four panellists and numerous interested citizens, he took stock of the first three years since the State Transparency Act came into force. First of all, State Secretary Nicole Steingass from the Ministry of the Interior pointed out, among other things, the importance of transparent and open administration for a free and democratic community in a keynote speech. This was followed by a panel discussion between Ms. Steingaß, Ms. Helena Peltonen-Gassmann (Deputy Chairwoman of Transparency International Germany), Ms. Sabine Yacoub (BUND Rhineland-Palatinate State Chairman), Mr. Harald Pitzer (Member of the Rhineland-Palatinate District Council) and the state representative, Prof. Dr . Dieter Kugelman. The discussants described their experiences with the State Transparency Act and dealt with the question of which way to go in order to ensure transparency and openness of the administration on the one hand and on the other hand to take conflicting interests worthy of protection into account. The participants pointed out that transparency can counteract populism and combat corruption. It was criticized that, despite transparency and openness, the control of state action often fails due to the lack of opportunities for citizens to influence state decision-making processes. The late integration into legislative projects was given as an example. The audience was involved in the discussion and provided valuable impulses, especially on the challenges that the administration encounters when applying the law. One participant pointed out that the state's public authorities were busy to varying degrees with the application of the law.Prof. dr Kugelmann states: “The event showed that Rhineland-Palatinate has been successful in transparency in the administration, but at the same time there are still further steps to be taken. The LfDI will continue to provide information and support in order to promote open democracy with informed citizens.”
                                return
                            



