1/48

 Procedure No.: PS/00259/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and with
based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D. A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimant), files
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) dated
04/06/2020. The claim is directed against BANKIA, S.A., with NIF A14010342 (in
successively, the claimed one). The reason on which you base your claim is the receipt of
commercial advertising that the respondent sent him through postal mail after
that you have opposed the processing of your data for advertising purposes and that the
claimed, of whom he is a client, replied that he was attending to his right and proceeded to
adopt the necessary measures for compliance.

Provide these documents with your claim:

a. The one that contains the commercial communication (Annex 2), integrated in turn by
two documents. In the first of them, in the lower right part, there are
the personal data of the claimant - name, two surnames and postal address
complete - and below a barcode. The position in which they are located
in the document the personal data coincides with the one that occupies the window of
a type of envelope that is commonly used in postal mail and that allows
see the recipient's details printed inside the envelope. In the
upper right corner of the document contains the anagram of the claimed
with his name. In the lower right corner the indication “11.02.2020”. In the
The body of the document contains this legend: "It is very difficult to find the house
of your dreams. Therefore, WE REMOVE THE COMMISSIONS OF YOUR NEW
MORTGAGE. Just for having your payroll domiciled and nothing else. We remove the
 Then, in two parallel columns, figure:
commissions of:”
"OPENING";
 
“EARLY AMORTIZATION”;
"CANCELLATION
ADVANCED”; "MAIL COSTS". Immediately below is indicated:
“So that dreaming costs less. *Check conditions at Bankia offices or
bankia.es”.
The second document that integrates annex 2 of the written claim is
identical to the first with this particularity: the recipient's personal data
do not match those of the claimant -the mailing address is the same but not the
name and surnames, in this case B.B.B.- nor the date of shipment, in this case
case on 02/24/2020.

 

a. The letter, dated 11/28/2018, that the respondent sent to the claimant in which
acknowledges receipt of your request not to receive information of a commercial nature or
publicity of the entity and that their data were not communicated to other
entities, subsidiaries of the Bankia group or collaborators for the
commercial (Annex 1). In it, the respondent informs the claimant that she has
responded to your request and has proceeded to adopt the necessary measures for your
compliance.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/48

The following excerpt is reproduced from the letter sent to the claimant in
response to your request not to receive commercial information:
“In relation to your request for which you [the claimant], with D.N.I. [ the one from
claimant], informs us of your desire not to receive information of a
commercial or
   of this Entity, as well as that your data is not
 
communicated to other entities or investees of the Bankia group or
collaborators, we inform you that we have fulfilled your request
and we have proceeded to adopt the necessary measures to comply with it.”
(emphasis ours)

 advertising
 

The claimant also provided the AEPD together with the response letter that
received from the defendant a seven-page document with the anagram of the
entity that has the rubric "Processing of Personal Data" "Information
on the conditions for the processing of personal data (updated)”.
In the document they appear first, under the heading “Data of
Customer ID”, the personal data of the claimant. Later
It is stated that “The personal data requested by [the respondent] will be treated
in accordance with the following basic data protection information.” The
“Basic report on data protection” is structured in several sections
dedicated to the “Responsible”; “Purposes”; "Legitimation"; “Recipients”;
“Rights” and “Additional information”. In the section “Purposes” it mentions,
among others, the "Sending of commercial campaigns, communication of offers of
products, services and promotions of both the [claimed] and third parties.”
The "Legitimation" section mentions "the execution of the contract, the
compliance with a legal obligation, consent of the interested party and the
legitimate interest”. Further on there is a section called “Sending
personalized commercial communications. Point 1.1. refers to
“personalized commercial communications through any channel (...)
about products, services, promotions based on your profile,
from your personal data, the products you have contracted, as well as
from the operations, movements, transactions associated with their
products” and is divided into points 1.1.1, 1.1.2 and 1.1.3. in all of them
It appears as an option "No".

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim, the Subdirectorate
General Data Inspection, in accordance with the provisions of article 65 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, on Data Protection and Guarantees of Digital Rights
(LOPDGDD), in order to assess the admissibility of the claim, within the framework of the
file E/3708/2020 and by means of a document signed on 06/03/2020, transfers the
claim to the respondent so that within a month they can provide an explanation of
the facts denounced, detail the measures adopted to avoid that in the future
continue to produce similar situations and proceed to communicate your decision to the
claimant.

The document was served on the respondent electronically. The certificate issued by the
Electronic Notification Service and Authorized Electronic Address of the
FNMT-RCM (hereinafter, FNMT), which appears in the file, records the
made available in the electronic headquarters on 06/03/2020 and the acceptance of the
notification on 06/06/2020.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/48

The respondent responds to the information request on 07/03/2020 and submits a report with
the actions carried out by the office of the data protection delegate (DPD).
It states, first of all, that it has been verified that the claimant did not formulate before the
claimed -neither before its management office, nor before the SAC nor before the DPD- any
claim for the reason on which the claim filed with the AEPD is based.

Second, it asserts that the claimant exercised "the right to object" to the
receipt of commercial communications from the claimed party on 11/04/2018,
by email addressed to protecciondatos@bankia.com,
being processed and answered the request on 11/21/2018 in writing that coincides with the
that the claimant attached as Exhibit 1 to his claim. It also indicates that the
claimant has alleged that on 02/11/2020 “he received a communication” about the mortgage
without commissions and that he has provided a copy of said communication.

Regarding the nature of the "communication" that the respondent sent to the
claimant and the legality of the data processing carried out, makes these
considerations:

-“As can be seen from the documents provided by Mr. [claimant],
What the claimant refers to with "communication" is the sending of the cover of
correspondence that the entity uses to send information by
physical correspondence to customers about their products (statements, movements,
commissions...), which, as can be seen from the two covers provided, is the same
in its graphics for all clients with the only difference that it collects the data
of correspondence specific to each client.”

- “It is not, therefore, a personalized commercial communication or addressed to the
claimant for his profile but for a generic and common cover for all clients,
similar to the posters that are exposed in the offices or their facades, and
general for all customers who receive their correspondence physically in
paper."
- “And therefore, it must be understood that it is a shipment protected by the interest
legitimate of [¿?] as reported in the privacy policy of the entity, when
be referred in general to products or services marketed by the
entity and similar to the products contracted by its clients (products
financial).” (emphasis is ours)

The respondent concludes with this statement: "the claimant has not been addressed
personalized commercial communication as he has exercised his right to
opposition to receiving this type of commercial communications. (The underline is
our)

The respondent sends to the AEPD with its response a copy of the letter that it sent to the
claimant, informing him of the decision adopted in view of the facts reported in
your claim.

The Director of the AEPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, dated 07/13/2020 agrees to admit this claim for processing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/48

The agreement for admission to processing was notified to the claimant by mail on the same
day of its signature and it is recorded as received on 07/21/2020.

THIRD: On 10/07/2020, the Director of the AEPD agrees to open a
sanctioning procedure to the claimed in accordance with the provisions of the articles
63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure
of the Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of the
Article 6.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, of the European Parliament and
of the Council, on the protection of natural persons with regard to
treatment of personal data and the free circulation of these data and by which
repeals Directive 95/46/CE (RGPD), typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Once the initial agreement has been notified, the claimed party, by means of a document presented on
10/19/2020, requests that, in accordance with article 53.1.a) of the LPACAP, a
a copy of the documents that make up the administrative file, and that,
In accordance with article 32.1 of the aforementioned LPACAP, the term is extended by five days
initially granted to formulate allegations.

FIFTH: In a letter dated 10/23/2020, it is agreed to extend the term to formulate
allegations for the maximum legally permitted and the copy is sent to the claimed
of the electronic file.

That document, together with a copy of the file, was notified to the respondent by means
emails being the date of availability 10/23/2020 and the date of
acceptance on 10/26/2020. This is stated in the document "Confirmation of receipt
of the notification” of the Citizen Folder application.

SIXTH: On 11/03/2020, the respondent presents its allegations to the settlement agreement
opening of the sanctioning procedure in which it requests that the nullity of the
full Law of the procedure for the reasons detailed in the first allegation
of your writing. Subsidiarily, it requests that the file of the procedure be agreed
due to non-existence of infringement of the data protection regulations
staff. And, in a subsidiary manner with respect to the previous claims, that
agree to warn the claimed party (article 58.2.b, RGPD) or, failing that, reduce
significantly the amount of the fine provided for in the agreement to open the
procedure, in response to what was stated in his fourth allegation.

In defense of their respective claims, they adduce the following arguments:

The first allegation of his brief is headed “From the defenselessness produced to [the
claimed] as a consequence of setting the amount of the sanction in the agreement
Of start".

In short, it states that the opening agreement is invalidated by the
helplessness generated by the fact that the amount of the sanction has been set in the agreement
from the beginning, instead of expressing only the limits of the possible sanction; because they haven't been
motivated the aggravating circumstances and because through the initial agreement a
assessment of his guilt without having had the opportunity to pronounce on the matter.
It adds that the initial agreement exceeds the content provided for in article 68 of the
LOPDGDD and that, since the decision-making body has set the amount of the penalty in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/48

agreement to open the procedure compromises the impartiality of the body
instructor, which determines in his opinion a "clear breach of the principle of
separation of the instruction phase and the sanction phase”. It affirms that the rules of article 85 of
the LPACAP are not applicable to this case but to the cases in which the
sanctioning rule imposes a fixed and objective fine and that the application
that has been made in the initial agreement does not respect its literal meaning, according to which the
amount of the pecuniary sanction may be determined “once the proceeding
sanctioning”,

In the second allegation, “Of the concurrent circumstances in the present case”, the
claimed makes a list of the facts of the file. In particular, it relates
following:

-On 11/04/2018 the claimant sent a communication to the respondent
electronically in which you exercise your right of opposition and request that they not be "used for
commercial communications of any kind” the data related to your email,
telephone number and postal mail.
- On 11/21/2018 the respondent responds to the request to exercise the right of
opposition and informs you that in relation to "your desire not to receive information from
commercial or advertising nature of this Entity, as well as that your data is not
communicated to other entities or investees of the Bankia group or collaborators with
commercial purpose”, “his request has been fully attended to and [he has] proceeded to
adopt the necessary measures for its fulfillment”. (emphasis ours)
-On 02/11/2020 the claimant receives a letter in his name from the claimed party “in whose
cover page refers to certain credit products offered by [the
claimed]”
- It appears among the documentation provided by the claimant "another letter", dated
02/24/2020, addressed to a person other than the claimant, “with similar graphics on
the cover of the envelope [...]”.
- On 06/03/2020 the AEPD asks you to report on the claim filed.
He points out that the AEPD did not send him the claim but only the documents
attached to it. The respondent responds on 07/03/2020.

The third allegation of the allegation brief is headed “About the non-existence of
any violation of article 6.1. of the RGPD” and in it he exposes the arguments
center of his defence.

He points out that the AEPD attributes an infringement of article 6.1.f of the RGPD "for having
proceeded, in its opinion, to data processing for marketing purposes without having the
sufficient legal basis for this, as it cannot protect the treatment in the interest
legitimate” of the entity” (Underlining is ours)

Next, he warns that such imputation is based on an error by the AEPD. Thus, he states
that the opening agreement makes an error by confusing the “existence of publicity
of [the claimed] on the cover included in the envelope addressed to the claimant” with “the
processing for direct marketing purposes”.

He reiterates the same idea in the course of his third argument. It says, for example, that the
AEPD confuses "direct marketing" with "data processing for marketing purposes".
direct marketing”, “since it is about two completely different realities.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/48

differentiated" Or that "The AEPD incurs in an evident contradiction by confusing [...]
the existence of advertising with the performance of data processing with that
purpose”, to specify below that, only in this second case,
the regulations governing the fundamental right to the protection of
personal data and the AEPD could exercise the powers that, as an authority
of control is entrusted.

The defendant says that "the referral of said envelope with the advertising inserted" is not the
“result of data processing for advertising purposes. In the same way,
it would not be possible to consider that we would be faced with data processing with
such purposes in the event that on the cover of the envelope only the
trade name of my client, even when the AEPD, forcing the concept
contained in the Home Agreement could come to consider the mere representation
of that logo as advertising.”

For the claim, the personal data of the claimant were treated, exclusively,
in order to inform you about the products you had contracted with her.
In this regard, it indicates that the only treatment it has carried out in relation to the
personal data of the claimant "has been printed, on the same cover of the envelope
sent to all of its clients, of the Complainant's data, with the sole and
exclusive purpose of sending the same information about the status of the products
and services contracted by the same with [the entity claimed]”.

Also add:
“As can be verified, [the respondent] clearly distinguishes the treatments of
data necessary for the maintenance of the contractual relationship that links you with the
client, among which is the referral of the documentation related to the
evolution of the contracted products and services (for example, an extract of
account, the situation of a contracted savings or credit product, etc.), protected
clearly in article 6.1 b) of the RGPD, and the sending of commercial communications
of own products or services or those of third parties, protected, when it is carried out by
postal means in the legitimate interest of the Entity (article 6.1 f) of the RGPD).” (Folios
11 and 12 of the brief)

“That is to say, [the respondent] did not carry out any treatment of the data of the interested party with
the purpose of sending you information about its products, but only with the
to provide the information related to those hired by him, without the fact
that the cover of the envelope in which the information was sent implies treatment
any of your data for the purpose intended by the AEPD.
And it is that, in this sense, [the respondent] does not deny that the information included in the
cover can be considered advertising for the purposes provided in the regulations that
mentions the Initiation Agreement, what cannot be considered is that the fact that
that information is included in the cover implies data processing for purposes of
direct marketing, which is what is attributed to my client.” (Folio 12 of the brief of
allegations) (emphasis added)

The respondent states that she is fully aware of the scope of the right
contemplated in article 21.2 of the RGPD and that it supposes a counterweight to the
application of the rule of legitimate interest for the processing of data for the purpose of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/48

direct marketing, but considers that this precept does not apply to
this matter since the aforementioned treatment has not taken place.

It affirms, "against what was invoked by the AEPD in its Initiation Agreement, that it has not
carried out a processing of the Claimant's data whose "reason for being", "objective"
or "ultimate intention" is to carry out direct marketing activities. He says
that "has proceeded to the treatment of the Complainant's data with the sole and exclusive
purpose of sending to the same the information related to the evolution and situation of
the products and services contracted by him, under the exclusive protection of the provisions
in article 6.1 b) of the RGPD, since this communication is necessary for the adequate
management and development of the contractual relationship that binds [the respondent] with her
customers. And it is that, as anticipated, the fact that the envelope in which this
information may imply the existence of publicity, common on the other hand to the
all the clients of [the claimed], but not a treatment of the data of those
clients with the "objective", "reason for being" or "ultimate intention" of carrying out actions of
direct marketing." (emphasis ours)

The privacy policy document that the respondent has provided with their
allegations to the initial agreement, informs in the section dedicated to the "conditions
of privacy” in relation to the personal data of its clients that, without prejudice
of the special conditions established in relation to each product
contracted by them, will be processed for six determined and specific purposes,
namely:

"1. Attend, manage and answer queries, questions and requests made by
users through the service or communication channels enabled by
Bankia (Legitimation of the treatment: user consent).
2. Maintain, comply with and control the contractual and pre-contractual relationship between the
users and Bankia (Legitimation of the treatment: Execution of a contract).
3. Improve the web pages or tools owned by Bankia, as well as their
products and services, in order to offer better quality and service to the user,
develop new products/services or improve the entity's internal processes
(Legitimation of the treatment: Consent of the user (cookies) and Legitimate interest).
4. Send commercial communications about products and services, own or of
third parties (Legitimation of the treatment: Consent of the user).
5. Carry out studies for statistical purposes that may be of interest to Bankia or
third parties (Legitimation of the treatment: Legitimate interest).
6. Comply with the legal obligations of Bankia (Legitimation of the treatment:
Compliance with a legal obligation)." (emphasis ours)

The fourth allegation of the allegation brief deals with the circumstances
appreciated by the AEPD for the quantification of the sanction.

The respondent alleges that the AEPD has violated the principle of proportionality in the
determination of the sanction, since the amount of the administrative fine established
in the initial agreement "does not adjust to the assessment of the mitigating and aggravating
that the agreement itself takes into consideration.”

In this regard, he explains that the initial agreement appreciated the concurrence of two
aggravating circumstances and a mitigating circumstance and set a sanction of a fine of 50,000 euros when, says

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/48

that is the amount that the AEPD usually imposes as a sanction for violation
of article 6.1 RGPD in cases that “do not deserve a sanctioning reproach
especially high” and when, unlike what happens in this case, the
resolutions in which a fine of such an amount is imposed usually assess the
concurrence of multiple aggravating factors and do not usually appreciate the concurrence of any
extenuating.

The respondent makes a comparison between the modifying circumstances of the
responsibility that the AEPD appreciated in the resolution issued in PS/00076/2020,
followed also against her, and those that appear in the agreement of opening of the
procedure, and notices two differences: That in the resolution of PS/00076/2020 there is no
the circumstance was taken into consideration, which can be seen in this case as
aggravating circumstance, of the link between the activity that the entity carries out with the treatment of
Personal data. That in the aforementioned resolution it was clarified that the lack of
diligence of the defendant was "significant", which, he explains, is not indicated in the
present case. We anticipate that, as can be seen by reading the
agreement to initiate the file, the expression "The serious lack of diligence
[...]”.

It also argues that, given that in this case the concurrence of
a mitigating factor, it is striking that the sanction is the same -50,000 euros- as in the
PS/0076/2020. Considerations that in his opinion are an exponent of the one invoked
violation of the principle of proportionality.

SEVENTH: The agreement to initiate the procedure, in point 3 of the operative part,
agreed to "INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data during the phase prior to the claim being processed.”

Through diligence of the instructor dated 06/14/2021, a record was made for the purposes
proof that, by virtue of what was agreed by the Director of the AEPD in the agreement
of opening of the procedure, the claim was incorporated into it
presented and its attached documentation, as well as the documentation generated and
obtained by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection in the framework of the
E/03708/2020, in the information request process prior to admission for processing of the
claim.

EIGHTH: The proposed resolution is signed by the instructor of the procedure in
date 06/16/2021 and on that same date it is notified electronically by contacting
disposition of the claimant. The notification was accepted on 06/15/2021. Both of them
ends are accredited through the certificate of the FNMT that works in the
proceedings.

The proposed resolution was formulated in the following terms:

<<FIRST: That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
sanction BANKIA, S.A., with NIF A14010342, for an infraction of article 6.1.f)
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a of the RGPD, with an administrative fine of
€50,000 (fifty thousand euros)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/48

SECOND: That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
orders BANKIA, S.A., with NIF A14010342, for an infringement of article 6.1.f) of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a of the RGPD, which adopts, within a maximum period of
one month, the necessary measures to adjust its treatment operations to the
GDPR provisions; in such a way as to put an end to data processing
for direct marketing purposes with respect to those customers who
they had opposed the processing of their data for this purpose.>>

NINTH: On 06/25/2021 there is an entry in the AEPD registry with a letter of
CAIXABANK, S.A., in which it communicates the subrogation, in this proceeding
sanctioning party, in the legal position of BANKIA, S.A., by virtue of the merger by
absorption agreed between it, as absorbing company, and BANKIA, S.A., as
of absorbed company.

In the same letter, it requests that it be extended, for the maximum legally permitted, 5 days,
the term initially granted to formulate allegations to the proposed resolution.
The brief sent by the respondent was accessible in the computer application on
Monday 06/28/2021, last day of the term initially granted to present
arguments to the proposed resolution. In a letter of the same date addressed to the
claimed, the request for an extension of the period for pleadings is denied.

TENTH: The defendant -previously BANKIA, S.A., now CAIXABANK, S.A.- submits its
allegations to the proposed resolution on 06/28/2021. Ask them to
declare the nullity of full law of the sanctioning procedure for the reasons
which he describes in his first allegation. In the alternative, it requests that the
archive of the procedure “since it does not constitute the conduct of BANKIA (currently
CAIXABANK) any violation of the personal data protection regulations.” Y,
subsidiarily with respect to the previous requests, which is warned according to the
article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, or, failing that, significantly reduce the amount
of the sanction of an administrative fine in response to the arguments set forth in his
fourth claim.

In defense of their respective claims, they adduce the following arguments:

-On a preliminary basis, in addition to verifying that on 06/14/2021 he was notified
the motion for a resolution, reiterates the statements made in its brief of
allegations to the initial agreement, presented on 11/03/2020, “since, in our opinion,
Apparently, the content of the Motion for a Resolution does not refute in any way what
pointed out in the aforementioned allegations.

-The first allegation is headed “On setting the amount of the penalty in
the initial agreement.

This allegation is, in essence, identical to the one formulated in the pleadings brief to the
agreement to initiate the procedure. In it, he reiterates the “manifest defenselessness” that
generated as a result of the AEPD setting the amount of the
sanction in the agreement to open the file.

The defenselessness that he claims to have suffered is based, in his opinion, on the fact that the AEPD “has
proceeded to assess the degree of guilt of my client and the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/48

circumstances that affect him, in audita parte, without my principal having
had the possibility to make any allegation or to carry out the slightest proof in
defense of his right, thus seriously harming his right to
defense" and that such assessment was made by the competent body to resolve,
which supposes an interference of the sanctioning body in the inspection action and
“a dilution between the investigation and resolution phases of this proceeding
sanctioning, with the consequent damage to my principal.”

The respondent maintains that the "manifest helplessness" suffered occurred when
“dispense with the guarantees granted by the regulations governing the procedure
sanctioning" and the bankruptcy of the "right to effective judicial protection", all of which
a defect of absolute nullity of article 47.1.a) of the LPACAP due to the injury of the
rights and freedoms subject to constitutional protection

He then goes on to make the following comments that he puts in relation to
some of the statements contained in the proposed resolution:
It affirms that the proposal indicates “that the evaluation in audit part of the circumstances
concurrent in the case and, consequently, the determination by the
competent to sanction the amount of the sanction proceeding prior to the
investigation of the matter derived directly and immediately from what was established in the
article 64 of Law 39/2015 [...], although, then, there is a manifest
contradiction, by indicating, as is done in the Resolution, that the actions of the
AEPD “goes beyond” what is foreseen in the norm.”
That “the AEPD indicates in the Proposal that the setting of the amount of the sanction that
would proceed to impose on the defendant is a requirement of the provisions of the Law, but at the
same time considers that it is not, since it seems to indicate that, in a way
completely ex gratia and beneficial for the defendant, the AEPD has decided to "go further
beyond" of what is established in the norm, granting a kind of benefit to the administered,
even when this is at the cost of undermining the rights enshrined in article
24 of the Constitution.”

Likewise, based on the particular interpretation that the defendant has been making
of article 85 of the LPACAP, affirms that "the literalness of the norm" does not imply a
enabling the sanctioning body to prejudge the case, proposing ab initio the
amount of the sanction, "since this breaks the most elementary
principles of sanctioning procedure.

It insists that article 85.1 of the LPACAP "does not require a prior determination of the
sanction, since it refers to the “imposition of the appropriate sanction”; that the norm is
applicable, in any case, "initiated the procedure". It adds that article 85.3. foresees
that the reductions must be adopted on the "proposed" sanction, of which
concludes that it is necessary to have determined what that amount is within the
procedure, after hearing the administrator, since the initial agreement "is not the
suitable place to “propose” the imposition of a sanction”.

Taking as a starting point the considerations made in the proposal
of resolution about what could be the circumstance of article 47.1. of the
LPACAP in which the respondent intended to base the nullity of the procedure
invoked, makes the following comments which, due to their importance -every time

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/48

differ substantially from what this Agency stated in the proposal for
resolution-, deserve to be reproduced:
“[...] from the foregoing it follows that the legislator has not appreciated with respect to the
sanctioning administrative procedure the necessary separation of the phases of
instruction and resolution and the necessary intervention in the same of two organs
different, without the sanctioning body being able to intervene or “direct”, as it has
happened in this case, the independent action of the examining body.
 “And to the greater surprise, the Resolution Proposal not only considers that the aforementioned
principle of separation of the phases of investigation and resolution is not predicable to the
sanctioning procedure, thus contradicting what is expressly established in the
LPACAP and remembered by very reiterad jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court (for
all in the STC 9/2018, of February 5), but also affirms without any hesitation
that the principle “according to which the instructor does not decide, is not applicable to the
administrative procedure”, on the basis of an alleged jurisprudence
constitutional law that has nothing to do with such a conclusion.”

Regarding the aforementioned SSTC, he says: “Without wishing to dwell on this point,
it is enough to make a mere reference to the jurisprudence invoked to determine without the
the slightest hint of doubt, its absolute irrelevance:
“In effect, the STC 175/2005 that invokes the Proposal is not even related
some with the fundamental right enshrined in article 24 of the Constitution,
but with the principle of equality enshrined in its article 14.”
“For its part, STC 74/2004 does refer to the right to effective judicial protection,
but regarding the non-application to the administrative procedure of the right to a judge
predetermined by the Law, which also bears no relation to what
analyzed in this proceeding.”
 
-The second allegation is headed “On the legality of Bankia's conduct
(currently Caixabank) and the non-existence of infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD”.

The defendant reaches the conclusion, announced in the title of this section, that in
the matter at hand has not been a processing of personal data for purposes
of direct marketing for which "it is idle to go to article 6.1 of the RGPD
to assess whether said non-treatment has a sufficient legal basis, and therefore
therefore appreciate that there has been a violation of any of the sections of
the rule".

In short, the respondent considers that the data processing carried out was carried out
within the framework of the contractual relationship that linked the claimant and the claimed whose
The purpose was to provide you with information related to the status of the products
contracted, for which it maintains that "the fact that the cover of the envelope in which
produces the aforementioned reference incorporates information referring to products marketed
by the entity, without having carried out treatment activity linked to the
determination of the content of said document cannot in any case imply the
existence of a specific treatment aimed at carrying out actions of
direct marketing, but the mere adoption of a business decision about the
format of the envelopes addressed to the entity's clients”. (The underlining is from the
AEPD)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/48

In the course of the second allegation, the respondent details the various elements on
which builds its conclusion.

It begins by stating that the proposed resolution considers that it "has led to
carry out a treatment of the Claimant's data for direct marketing purposes” and
that, also considers the proposal that "the mere fact of printing the data
Claimant's contact number on the cover of an envelope which, in a predefined format
incorporates information about the products of my client, implies the use and
processing of data for the aforementioned purpose.”

He insists that the proposal considers that the mere fact that the title page contains
the information on the aforementioned product is sufficient to appreciate the existence of "a
personalized delivery” to the claimant “in order to promote the acquisition of the
mentioned product of the entity”; although “[...] it did not involve the realization of a
prior action by Bankia to determine whether said advertising
may or may not correspond to the preferences of the interested party”.

He also affirms that the "proposal considers" that the fact of having sent him the letter
to the claimant, which contains the contact information to which it is addressed "implies the
carrying out two personal data processing: one related to the development
of the contractual relationship and the other derived from the pure and simple fact that the cover
of the envelope incorporates the aforementioned information”. As a counterpoint, he exposes what his
position: that there was and carried out "a single data processing and with the sole and
exclusive purpose of sending the claimant the extracts of the contracted products,
treatment protected therefore in article 6.1.b, of the RGPD.”

He endorses this last statement by saying that under no circumstances could it be qualified
data processing of the interested party, in the terms in which it is defined in article
4.2 of the RGPD (precept that he transcribes in his letter of allegations), the fact of
having incorporated on the cover of the envelope “information about the entity and even
of the products and services it sells.

In order to argue that there was no data processing for marketing purposes
directly states the following:
That, even in the hypothesis that it admits that “the inclusion on the title page of a
about the cited information could be considered direct marketing” – what
on the other hand flatly denies-, which "in no way can prove ... the AEPD
is that a treatment of the data of the interested party related to
with the purpose of sending advertising, neither general nor specific.” (The
underlining is ours)

That, as stated in his pleadings to the opening agreement "does not deny that the
information contained in the cover of the envelope may be considered advertising of the
entity, but what it does deny and reiterate is that there has been data processing
for direct marketing purposes carried out without having a legal basis for it
as a consequence of the exercise by the interested party of his right of opposition”.

It adds that “The decision about the format of the envelopes in which an entity
company incorporates its documentation is a mere business decision, which in
any may involve the processing of personal data, since it does not imply the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/48

carrying out any of the operations included in the aforementioned
concept."

“[...] as was also indicated in the allegations of my principal to the Agreement of
Start, the inclusion of information about a certain product of my client
on the cover of the envelope to which the aforementioned communication is addressed may
considered an advertising activity, but not a direct marketing action
[...]” And he goes on to say: “That action [of direct marketing] would take place if the
content, that not the "container" of the communication sent to the interested party contained
information related to a product of the entity, but not in those cases in which
which is the envelope, which will be accessible by an indeterminate plurality of people
throughout the process of processing and sending the communication contains said
information."

“[...] for the AEPD it seems that only the addressee of the communication will have
an effective knowledge of the advertising message contained in the cover of the envelope
sent, and, consequently, will be the only recipient of the aforementioned message,
the envelope remaining hidden from the other operators, which converts its
referral in a direct marketing action.” And he adds that, “even in the denied
assumption that it is considered that only the addressee will have access to the
said message”, this does not imply that a treatment has been carried out for the purpose of
direct marketing because it will not have been carried out with the personal data of the
interested party none of the processing operations referred to in article
4.2 of the GDPR.”

The respondent also states that the AEPD, having found an infringement of the
RGPD in the facts object of the claim, has "artificially expanded its
competences” “to the point of considering subject to its supervision” “decisions
companies unrelated to any data processing”.

It also mentions Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of
information and electronic commerce (LSSI) and the concept of communication
commercial that the law offers to, next, raise a factual assumption: that,
within the framework of the activity regulated by the LSSI, a banner would have been included in the
to be informed of a new product. To which he says the following:
“Well, following the reasoning of the AEPD, the mere inclusion of a banner
generic and non-targeted, after carrying out a segmentation or profiling activity,
to each client of the entity would suppose a data treatment of each and every one of
customers with access to the private area in order to send them a communication
commercial, consisting of the advertising of the mentioned product”. "Thus,
any entity would be obliged either to implement complex processes of
delimitation of the clients in whose personal area the aforementioned could be incorporated
banner or to establish two or more personal areas differences (with or without banner)
[...]” (emphasis added)

-Third allegation, “On the application of the measure contained in article 58.2.d)
of the GDPR”.

Manifests the claimed that the corrective measure proposed in the second device
of the proposed resolution “results from impossible application, since the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/48

extinction of the personality of the entity against which it is intended by the AEPD to direct
measure". It adds that such a measure “would no longer be applicable”, since as
consequence of the disappearance of the legal entity (BANKIA) has ceased
all personal data processing.

-Fourth allegation: “About the circumstances assessed by the AEPD in the conduct
of BANKIA”.

The defendant denounces “the irrelevance that the circumstances of the AEPD
concurrent in a specific case, as well as the predetermination of the sanction for
part of it that does not result from the application of the aforementioned circumstances.” Add
that the Agency, in determining the amount of the sanction, proceeds “with a
sort of automatism that generally leads to the imposition of sanctions of
identical amount in cases that cannot be related to each other, provided
who considers that the seriousness of the event reaches a predetermined threshold…”

Regarding the aggravating circumstance, appreciated in the resolution proposal, of article 83.2.a)
RGPD, criticizes that it was qualified as mitigating in the initial agreement and that in the
motion for a resolution such a change occurs.

Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.b) draws attention to the
fact that the motion for a resolution refers, to substantiate this circumstance
aggravating circumstance, to the fact that “it can be presumed that in its activity the treatment of
data for direct marketing purposes and the cases in which customers
oppose for that purpose”. He affirms that we are before a presumption devoid of
evidentiary support that violates the right to the presumption of innocence.

Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.e) RGPD, it criticizes, on the one hand, that
appreciate on the basis of the appointment to a single sanctioning procedure directed against the
claimed and related to facts that are unrelated to those that are
object of the current sanctioning file, with the aggravating circumstance that the mention of the
PS/0076/2020 has been included in the motion for a resolution as a result of it having been
cited the one claimed in the exercise of its right of defense in its brief of
allegations to the initiation agreement. On the other hand, it affirms that the AEPD acts in a
arbitrary because, in general, it does not make use of this in its resolutions.
aggravating circumstance, except when the entity has been "sanctioned in a
reiterated and habitual” and mentions as an example the procedure PS/00030/2021.
Thus, it considers that, by appreciating this circumstance, in the present case a
situation of prejudice and discrimination for the entity, especially when the resolution to
the one alluded to (PS/00076/2020) in the motion for a resolution is the only one issued
compared to that claimed since the entry into force of the RGPD.

Regarding the mitigation of article 83.2.k) GDPR in relation to article 76.2. and)
of the LOPDGDD, considers it irrelevant since its application has not led
to modify the amount of the sanction of a fine provided for in the proposal with respect to the
which was fixed in the startup agreement. All of which leads him to reiterate his opinion about
the "absolute arbitrariness in the assessment of the circumstances of the case."

Within this fourth allegation, a section is devoted to justifying the origin of
that an economic sanction (administrative fine) is not imposed. start your

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/48

allegation saying that already in the initial agreement he recalled that the AEPD has, according to
of article 58.2 of the RGPD, “of a great plurality of powers other than the
imposition of an economic sanction. He criticizes that the motion for a resolution, compared to
his claim that a warning be imposed, has been limited to transcribing the
Recital 148 of the RGPD since the aforementioned recital takes into consideration
only two elements: that we are faced with a minor infraction and that the
fine that should be imposed would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
natural person, for which, says the respondent, although the latter is not applicable
condition, yes, in his opinion, the condition of the lightness of the infraction of which
he is held responsible. Add to this effect that the lightness to which the RGPD refers
has nothing to do with the classification that the LOPDGDD makes of infractions in
mild, serious and very serious – since this rule is after the RGDPD-. Thus, it indicates
that “When recital 148 refers to the seriousness or lightness of the
sanction refers to the cases in which there has been or has not been a commitment
particularly relevant to the fundamental right to data protection [...]”.
To this end, he cites document WP253 of the Article 29 Working Group,
“Guidelines on the application and setting of administrative fines for the purposes of
Regulation 2016/679” from which the following is transcribed:

“In recital 148, the notion of “minor infringements” is presented. sayings
Violations may constitute violations of one or more provisions of the
Regulation cited in article 83, paragraphs 4 or 5. However, the
evaluation of the criteria provided for in Article 83, paragraph 2, can give
result in the supervisory authority deeming, for example, that in the circumstances
circumstances of the case the violation does not entail a significant risk for the
rights of the interested parties and does not affect the essence of the obligation in
question. In such cases, the fine may (although not always) be replaced by
a warning.”
(emphasis ours)

He completes his argument by pointing out that in this case "there is only one
singular claim. "That is, only one person among those who have opposed the
processing of your data for direct marketing purposes has reached the
conclusion, which that Agency seems to share, that the adoption of a format
standard cover of the envelope in which the information on the evolution of the
the products contracted with my client supposes an additional treatment of his
personal data for direct marketing purposes.” And that “the damage that could
cause such conduct to the recipients of the shipments, we reiterate that only
related to the evolution of the contracted products is simply
non-existent".

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
the following are considered tested in this procedure

FACTS

1. The claimant, client of the claimed party, received a complaint by mail
postcard, a letter with information about your accounts that also included information
business of the entity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/48

2. The document with commercial information received by the claimant, from which he provides
a copy, bears in its lower right corner the date "11.02.2020" and has these
features:
At the bottom right are the claimant's personal details -name, two
surnames and full postal address - and below a barcode. The position in
that the personal data is located in that document coincides with the one that occupies
the window or transparent space of a type of envelope commonly used in
postal mail and that allows you to see the recipient's information printed inside the envelope.
In the upper right corner of the document appears the anagram of the claimed with
your name. This legend appears in the body of the document:

  “It is very difficult to find the house of your dreams. That's why WE TAKE THEM FROM YOU
COMMISSIONS OF YOUR NEW MORTGAGE. Just for having your payroll domiciled and
nothing more. We remove the commissions from:” Next, in two columns
parallel, figure: “OPENING”; “EARLY AMORTIZATION”; "CANCELLATION
ADVANCED”; "MAIL COSTS". Immediately below it is indicated: “So that
Dreaming costs less. *Check conditions at Bankia branches or bankia.es”.

3. On 11/04/2018, the claimant sent an email addressed to
protecciondedatos@bankia.es, in which he communicated to the respondent his wish “not to
receive information of a commercial or advertising nature”. This is recognized by the entity
claimed in its arguments to the initial agreement.

The respondent responded to her request by means of a letter dated 11/21/2018 -which is
in the file - in which he replied:
“In relation to your request for which you [the claimant], with D.N.I. [the one from
claimant], informs us of your wish not to receive information of a commercial nature or
advertising of this Entity, as well as that your data is not communicated to other
entities or investees of the Bankia group or collaborators, we inform you that we have
fully attended your request and we have proceeded to adopt the measures
necessary for its fulfillment.” (emphasis ours)

4. The DPD of the respondent responded to the informative request of the Subdirectorate
General Data Inspection, prior to the claim being processed, which
“No personalized commercial communication has been addressed to the claimant at
having exercised his right of opposition to receive this type of
communications.” (emphasis ours)

5. Regarding the commercial information sent to the complainant, the DPD responded to the
informative request of the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection that "No
[...] is a personalized commercial communication or addressed to the claimant by
your profile but of a generic and common cover for all clients, [...].”

  6. Regarding the legal basis for this treatment, the DPD responded to the request
informative made by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection:
“It must be understood that it is a shipment protected by the legitimate interest of [?] such
and as reported in the entity's privacy policy, when referred to with
general character to products or services marketed by the entity and similar to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/48

the products contracted by its clients (financial products).” (The underline is
our)

7. The respondent has stated in her pleadings brief (folios 11 and 12 of the
written):

 “As can be verified, [the respondent] clearly distinguishes the treatments of
data necessary for the maintenance of the contractual relationship that links you with the
client, among which is the referral of the documentation related to the
evolution of the contracted products and services (for example, an extract of
account, the situation of a contracted savings or credit product, etc.), protected
clearly in article 6.1 b) of the RGPD, and the sending of commercial communications
of own products or services or those of third parties, protected, when it is carried out by
postal means in the legitimate interest of the Entity (article 6.1 f) of the RGPD).” (The
underlining is ours)

8. The privacy policy of the claimed party that appears in the document attached to the
allegations to the initial agreement informs that the personal data of the clients is
shall be treated, without prejudice to the special conditions established in relation
with each product contracted by them, for six specific purposes and
specific and, for each of them, specifies what is the legal basis of the treatment:

"1. Attend, manage and answer queries, questions and requests made by
users through the service or communication channels enabled by
Bankia (Legitimation of the treatment: user consent).
2. Maintain, comply with and control the contractual and pre-contractual relationship between the
users and Bankia (Legitimation of the treatment: Execution of a contract).
3. Improve the web pages or tools owned by Bankia, as well as their
products and services, in order to offer better quality and service to the user,
develop new products/services or improve the entity's internal processes
(Legitimation of the treatment: Consent of the user (cookies) and Legitimate interest).
4. Send commercial communications about products and services, own or of
third parties (Legitimation of the treatment: Consent of the user).
5. Carry out studies for statistical purposes that may be of interest to Bankia or
third parties (Legitimation of the treatment: Legitimate interest).
6. Comply with the legal obligations of Bankia (Legitimation of the treatment:
Compliance with a legal obligation)." (emphasis ours)

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
of Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD
and in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD.

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/48

For reasons of argumentative logic, the questions that
the respondent has raised in her two pleadings and that they are unrelated to the
substance of the matter on which the sanctioning procedure at hand deals.

In its allegations to the proposed resolution the one claimed, in addition to expressing
that “reiterates” in full the allegations that it made in the face of the agreement to open the
procedure, affects again the questions, unrelated to the merits of the matter, that
already raised in his first pleadings brief.

This Agency also reiterates what it stated in the motion for a resolution in
response to the allegations put forward by the respondent against the initiation agreement.
Response that we reproduce:
 

<<In the opinion of the respondent, the opening agreement is vitiated by
annulment due to the defenselessness generated by the fact that the AEPD has
fixed in it the amount of the sanction, instead of expressing only the limits of the
possible sanction; because the aggravating circumstances have not been motivated and because through the
initial agreement, an assessment of the guilt of the claimed party is made without
who has had occasion to speak on the matter. He also adds that the
initial agreement exceeds the content provided for in article 68 of the
LOPDGDD and that, since the decision-making body has set the amount of the penalty in the
agreement to open the procedure, the
impartiality of the investigating body, which thus knows, before initiating the
procedure, the criterion of the body to which the file must be submitted, what
determines in his opinion a “clear break in the principle of phase separation
instructor and sanction”.

The respondent understands that the rules of article 85 of the LPACAP are not
applicable to the present case but to the cases in which the norm
sanctioning imposes a fixed and objective fine and that the application that
this precept has been made in the initial agreement does not respect its literal tenor,
according to which the amount of the pecuniary sanction may be determined “when the
sanctioning procedure", for which, the entity maintains, "it would be
assimilating” “the very act of initiation with the fact that the procedure is
get started."

The arguments put forward by the respondent cannot be admitted.

 

The opening agreement is in accordance with the provisions of article 68 of the LOPDGDD,
according to which it will suffice to specify the facts that motivate the opening,
the person or entity against whom the procedure is directed is identified, the
infraction that could have been committed and its possible sanction. in the same sense
Article 64.2 of the LPACAP is expressed, which refers to the minimum content
of the initiation agreement. According to this precept, among other details, you must
contain “the facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
legal qualification and the sanctions that may correspond, without prejudice to
whatever results from the instruction. Therefore, in this case, not only the
requirements mentioned in the cited precepts, but goes further,
offering reasoning that justifies the possible legal classification of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/48

facts and circumstances are mentioned that may influence the determination
of the sanction.

It cannot be ignored that article 85 of the LPACAP - which contemplates the
possibility of applying reductions on the amount of the sanction in the case of
that the offender recognizes his responsibility and in case of voluntary payment of the
sanction- obliges to determine these reductions in the notification of the agreement of
initiation of the procedure, which necessarily implies that it must be fixed in
said agreement the amount of the sanction corresponding to the imputed facts.
Extreme that amply justifies that the circumstances refer to it
modifiers of responsibility, since these directly affect the
determination of the amount of the penalty.

Contrary to the thesis defended by the defendant, article 85 of the LPACAP does not
Nor does it provide for the amount of the penalty to be determined once the trial has begun.
process. On the contrary, it is the acknowledgment of responsibility and the
voluntary payment of the penalty which must occur after that
time, but not fixing its amount.

Regarding the opinion of the respondent according to which article 85 LPACAP
could only be applied to cases in which the sanctioning rule
imposes a fixed and objective fine and that the application that has been made
of this precept in the initial agreement does not respect its literal meaning, it must be
indicate that the AEPD has been applying article 85 LPACAP in the same way since
the entry into force of the aforementioned law without the Contentious Chamber
Administrative Court of the National High Court, before which a contentious appeal is possible
administrative against its resolutions, has never been pronounced online
with the criterion that that entity defends.

Nor can it be admitted that having indicated in the initial agreement the
sanctions that could correspond to the one claimed for the infractions
imputed is determinant of defenselessness or supposes a breach of the principle
separation of the instruction and resolution phases, since this Agency is
limited to thereby complying with one of the requirements set forth in the
outlined standards. Furthermore, articles 68 of the
LOPDGDD and 64.2 of the LPACAP require as content of the opening agreement
that the corresponding sanction be established.

Thus, the alleged rupture "of the principle of separation of the instructional phase
and sanction” that the claimant alleges -an extreme that this Agency denies- would be,
of existing, the consequence of the correct application that this Agency comes
making of a legal precept, article 85 of the LPACAP.

Regarding what was stated by the respondent that, having established the agreement of
opening the amount of the sanction and the modifying circumstances of the
responsibility that could be appreciated, she has not had occasion to
pronounce, we limit ourselves to pointing out that the administrative procedure is
begins precisely with the opening agreement and it is from then on -
before- when article 53 of the LPACAP recognizes the interested party a series of
rights, among them the one foreseen in article 53.1.e).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/48

Lastly, as regards the vice of nullity which, in the opinion of the
claimed, suffers from the procedure as a result of the defenselessness that
claims to have suffered, the following should be indicated: First of all, the respondent did not
specifies in which section of article 47.1 of the LPACAP bases the nullity that
invoke.

Secondly, the invoked nullity of the procedure in no case
could be based on section a) of article 47.1. of the LPACAP, in connection
with the alleged rupture of the separation between the instruction phase and the resolution phase
in accordance with article 24.2 of the C.E. This, because according to the SSTC
74/2004 and 175/2005, the principle enshrined in article 24.2 of the C.E. according to
of which the instructor does not resolve, is not applicable to the procedure
administrative, so that in this area we are not dealing with a right with
constitutional status.

And finally, thirdly, in the event that it is intended to found the nullity
of the procedure in the reason included in section e) of article 47.1 of the
LPACAP seems appropriate to bring up the STC 78/1999, of April 26,
that in its Legal Basis 2, it says:
“Thus, according to reiterated constitutional doctrine that is synthesized in the
legal basis 3 of the STC 62/1998, "the estimation of a resource of
protection for the existence of infractions of the procedural norms 'it is not
simply from the assessment of the eventual violation of the right by the
existence of a more or less serious procedural defect, but it is necessary
prove the effective concurrence of a state of material or real defenselessness'
(STC 126/1991, 5th legal basis; STC 290/1993, 4th legal basis).
So that a defenselessness with constitutional relevance can be estimated, which
places the interested party outside any possibility of pleading and defending in the
process their rights, a merely formal violation is not enough, being
necessary that a material effect be derived from this formal infringement
helplessness, an effective and real impairment of the right of defense (STC
149/1998, legal basis 3rd), with the consequent real and effective damage
for the interested parties affected (SSTC 155/1988, legal basis 4th, and
112/1989, legal basis 2nd)".

In view of the foregoing, the request of the respondent to declare the
nullity of the sanctioning administrative procedure that concerns us must be
rejected.>>
(emphasis ours)

In view of the allegations to the proposed resolution that the respondent has
presented, it is evident that the response of the AEPD, previously transcribed, not only has not
cleared up the doubts raised by the application that this body has been making
of article 85 of the LPACAP since the entry into force of the aforementioned Law, but has
seized the opportunity to distort some of the arguments that were then
exposed.

The alleged nullity of the administrative procedure that the respondent invokes -which,
As it has seen fit to specify in this brief of allegations to the proposal, it would be

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/48

covered by section a) of article 47.1 of the LPACAP- derives, in his opinion, from the
application that the AEPD makes of article 85 LPACAP, having set the amount of the
sanction in the opening agreement.

Of the extensive exposition that he has dedicated to matters unrelated to the merits of the matter
that concerns us - first allegation of the brief of allegations to the proposal, which is
reproduced in essence in the tenth antecedent of this resolution - the most
striking, and that forces us to make the necessary points, is the attribution to the
AEPD of statements that it has never made and also the attribution to this Agency
of conclusions that cannot be drawn from what is stated in the proposal document.
This peculiar way of exercising the legitimate and sacred right of defense leads to the
paradoxical situation in which the claimed party dedicates a large part of its efforts
plots to refute statements that this Agency never made and to distort
conclusions to which the defendant reaches on her own, since they cannot be derived from
what is stated in the motion for a resolution provided, of course, that the reader does not have
a particular interest in distorting what is written there.

The claimed, taking as a starting point the examination made by the proposal for
resolution of the consequences of founding the invoked nullity of the procedure in
one or another circumstance of article 47.1 LAPAC -every time the claimed one does not
specified in his allegations to the initial agreement what was, in his opinion, the vice of
radical nullity that concurred, limiting itself to affirming that the procedure was
nullified - makes the following comments that due to their importance deserve
be reproduced:

“[...] from the foregoing it follows that the legislator has not appreciated with respect to the
sanctioning administrative procedure the necessary separation of the phases of
instruction and resolution and the necessary intervention in the same of two organs
different, without the sanctioning body being able to intervene or “direct”, as it has
happened in this case, the independent action of the examining body.

 “And to the greater surprise, the Resolution Proposal not only considers that the aforementioned
principle of separation of the phases of investigation and resolution is not predicable to the
sanctioning procedure, thus contradicting what is expressly established in the
LPACAP and remembered by very reiterad jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court (for
all in the STC 9/2018, of February 5), but also affirms without any hesitation
that the principle “according to which the instructor does not decide, is not applicable to the
administrative procedure”, on the basis of an alleged jurisprudence
constitutional law that has nothing to do with such a conclusion.” (The underlined
is ours)

Regarding the aforementioned SSTC, the respondent adds: "Without wishing to extend
At this point, it is enough to make a mere reference to the jurisprudence invoked to
determine without the slightest hint of doubt, its absolute irrelevance:” (Underlining
is ours) “In effect, the STC 175/2005 that invokes the Proposal does not even keep
any relationship with the fundamental right enshrined in article 24 of the
Constitution, but with the principle of equality enshrined in its article 14.” "For his
On the other hand, STC 74/2004 does refer to the right to effective judicial protection, but
regarding the non-application to the administrative procedure of the right to a judge

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/48

predetermined by the Law, which also bears no relation to what
analyzed in this proceeding.”

Well, these allegations make it essential to reproduce again, even at the risk of
be repetitive, the following fragments of the proposed resolution:

“Lastly, as regards the vice of nullity which, in the opinion of the
claimed, suffers from the procedure as a result of the defenselessness that
claims to have suffered, the following should be indicated: First of all, the respondent did not
specifies in which section of article 47.1 of the LPACAP bases the nullity that
invoke.
Secondly, the invoked nullity of the procedure in no case
could be based on section a) of article 47.1. of the LPACAP, in connection
with the alleged rupture of the
 
  between the instruction phase and the resolution phase
in accordance with article 24.2 of the C.E. This, because according to the SSTC
74/2004 and 175/2005, the principle enshrined in article 24.2 of the C.E. according to
of which the instructor does not resolve, is not applicable to the procedure
administrative, so that in this area we are not dealing with a right with
constitutional status."

 separation
 

 

It seems evident that what this Agency is referring to in that paragraph is that in the
administrative procedure the guarantee of the separation between the investigative phase and
resolution has no constitutional status
 , but its rank is that of legality
ordinary – guarantee expressly included in article 63.1 of the LPACAP and
indirectly in article 53.2.a, of the LPACAP; article 134.2 of the repealed Law
30/1992 and 10.1 of the Procedural Regulation of the sanctioning power,
also repealed.

The argument put forward was that it would be difficult to rely on section a) of the
article 47.1 of the LPACAP, for violation of the principle of separation of the phase
instructor and resolution, the nullity of the procedure invoked otherwise because "it does not
we are before a right with constitutional rank” -remember that section a, is
refers to the violation of rights that are subject to constitutional protection- and
no, as the respondent likes to imply, that this guarantee does not exist in the
administrative Procedure.

The recognition in the administrative procedure of the constitutional status of this
right -implicit in article 24.2 of the CE- is a matter debated in the doctrine
administrative and on which the Constitutional Court has been carrying out important
qualifications in their sentences to end with a clear pronouncement against
that in this area such a guarantee has constitutional status. We refer to the STC
174/2005, of July 4, which was cited in the resolution proposal.

For this reason, transferring the doctrine of the High Court regarding the fundamental right to the
separation of the instruction and resolution phases and their application to the procedure
administrative sanction, we must also conclude now, in the resolution phase, what
that was stated in the proposal: that the nullity of the procedure that the claimed
claims “in no case could it be based on section a) of article 47.1. of the
LPACAP, in connection with the alleged breakdown of the separation between the phase

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/48

instructor and the decision in accordance with article 24.2 of the C.E.”. In other words, don't
could integrate the vice of absolute nullity provided for in article 47.1.a, of the LPACAP.

Article 24.2 of the CE that the defendant understands violated refers to eleven rights
which in turn constitute a set of procedural guarantees. The
SSTC have been delimiting which of them are applicable and which are not to the
administrative Procedure. As far as the phase separation principle is concerned
instructor and sanctioning – principle that has its origin in that the impartiality of the
judge is incompatible or is compromised by his performance as an instructor
(STC 145/1988, of July 12) - the T.C. has ruled on its application to the
sanctioning administrative procedure in the following terms:

In the STC of 02/15/1990 (RTC 1990/22) it says that “It is a reiterated doctrine of this Court
that it cannot be claimed that the Instructor in an administrative proceeding
sanctioning body, and even less, the body called to resolve the file, enjoy the
same guarantees as judicial bodies; because in this type of procedure the
Instructor is also an accuser as soon as he formulates a resolution proposal
sanctioning and, on the other hand, the body called to decide is the same one that initiates the
file and, therefore, does not stop being Judge and party at the same time.” (The underline is
our)

In the STC of 04/26/1990 (RTC 1990/76) it states that “Due to the very nature of the
administrative procedures, in no case can a separation be required between
instruction and resolution equivalent to the one that must be given in respect of the Judges.
jurisdictional processes. The right to the ordinary judge predetermined by law and
to a process with all the guarantees -among them, the independence and impartiality
of the judge- is a characteristic guarantee of the judicial process that does not extend to
administrative procedure, since the strict impartiality and independence of the
organs of the judiciary is not, by essence, applicable with the same meaning and in the
same measure to the administrative bodies.” (emphasis ours)
 
In the STC of 03/17/1995 the High Court says the following:
“In relation to this fundamental right not to be judged by someone who has been
previously investigating the case, this Court has declared that, due to its
purpose consists exclusively in avoiding, by the court
in charge of knowing the oral trial and of dictating Judgment of certain prejudices
about the guilt of the accused [...] Also, and from a point of view
objective, we have also said that, as it falls within the guarantees of the
accusatory criminal process, is not necessarily extensible to other processes of
similar nature as is the case of the sanctioning administrative procedure
(STC 22/1990 [RTC 1999, 22]
In any case, the accumulation of instructing and sentencing functions does not
cannot be examined in the abstract, but must be descended to the concrete cases and
verify whether the impartiality of the judge has been effectively violated (STC
98/1990), it must be taken into account that not every investigative act compromises
said impartiality, but only those who, by assuming the Judge a judgment on the
participation of the accused in the punishable act, may produce in his mind
certain prejudices about the defendant's guilt that disqualify him from
hear the oral trial phase (SSTC 106/1989; 136/1992, 170 and 320 1993)”.
(emphasis ours)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/48

Of the STC 174/2005, of July 4, to which the AEPD made mention in the proposal of
resolution and on which the respondent has affirmed exhaustively that nothing has to
To do with this previous question, we reproduce the following fragments:

"1. The purpose of this amparo remedy is to determine, on the one hand, whether in the
sanctioning administrative procedure, which has led to the imposition of the
sanction to the appellant entity, their right to a process has been violated with all
the guarantees (art. 24.2 CE), as the due separation between the
organ of instruction and the sanctioning body; [...]

2. The complaint regarding the violation of the right to a process with all the guarantees
(Art. 24.2 CE), from the perspective of the requirement of impartiality, it is necessary
understand it articulated by way of art. 43 LOTC, since the appellant entity
argues that it would have occurred in the sanctioning administrative procedure for not
respect the due separation between the administrative organ of investigation and the
sanctioning, derived from the fact that the Mayor of the City Council was the instructor of the
procedure and, in addition, president of the Government Commission that imposed the
sanction.

In this regard, it should be remembered that, although this Court has reiterated that, in principle,
the requirements derived from the right to a process with all the guarantees are applied
to the sanctioning administrative procedure, however, it has also been
special emphasis on the fact that said application must be carried out with the modulations
required to the extent necessary to preserve the essential values that are
found at the base of art. 24.2 CE and the legal certainty guaranteed by art. 9.3
CE, as long as they are compatible with their own nature (for all, STC 197/2004, of
November 15, FJ 2). More specifically, and with regard specifically to the
guarantee of impartiality, it has been pointed out that it is one of the cases in which it is
necessary to modulate its projection in the sanctioning administrative procedure, all
time that said guarantee "cannot be predicated of the sanctioning Administration in the
same sense as with respect to judicial bodies” (STC 2/2003, of January 16,
FJ 10), therefore, "without prejudice to the prohibition of all arbitrariness and the subsequent
judicial review of the sanction, the strict impartiality and independence of the
of the judiciary is not, by essence, predictable to the same extent as an organ
administrative” (STC 14/1999, of February 22, FJ 4), concluding that the
independence and impartiality of the judge, as a requirement of the right to a trial
with all the guarantees, it is a characteristic guarantee of the judicial process that is not
extends without more to the sanctioning administrative procedure (STC 74/2004, of 22 of
April, FJ 5).

In view of this, the principle of the sanctioning procedure established in art.
134.2 of Law 30/1992, of November 26, on the legal regime of
Public administrations and the common administrative procedure, according to which
“The procedures that regulate the exercise of the sanctioning power must
establish the proper separation between the instructing phase and the sanctioning phase,
entrusting them to different bodies”, is a legal principle whose protection
corresponds to the judicial bodies through the corresponding resources, without
that the requirement of impartiality of the sanctioning administrative body be, as
the appellant entity intends, a derived guarantee, with the character of right

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/48

fundamental, of art. 24.2 CE, whose requirements, relating to judicial impartiality,
They only apply to the judicial body that must decide on the legality of the action
administrative.

In this way, the eventual infraction in an administrative sanctioning procedure
of the principle of entrusting to different bodies the investigative phase and the
penalty lacks constitutional relevance for the purposes of art. 24.2 CE and, [....]”
(emphasis ours)

The STC 74/2004 of April 22 (F.J. 5) - in the proposal the number
175/2004- stated the following:

"5. It is also alleged by the plaintiff for amparo the infringement of the right to a
process with all the guarantees (art. 24.2 CE) [...] alleging that the command that imposed
the sanction, who was the one who carried out the hearing procedure, had been denounced by
the appellant before the General Director of the body for the commission of certain
irregularities.
[...]
In accordance with our doctrine, we must remember that the right to [...]
process with all the guarantees -among them, the independence and impartiality of the
judge- is a characteristic guarantee of the judicial process that does not extend to
administrative procedure, since the strict impartiality and independence of the
organs of the judiciary is not, by essence, predicable with the same meaning and in the
same measure of the administrative bodies (SSTC 22/1990, of February 15, FJ 4,
and 76/1990, of April 26, FJ 8.a; AATC 320/1986, of April 9, FJ 4, and 170/1987, of
February 11, FJ 1). As already expressed in the STC 22/1990, of February 15 (FJ 4),
it is not idle to bring up the caution with which it is convenient to operate when
transfer constitutional guarantees extracted from the criminal order to the Law
administrative sanctioning is about; this delicate operation cannot be done
automatically, because the application of said guarantees to the procedure
administrative is only possible to the extent that they are compatible with your
nature. Thus, on different occasions, the Constitutional Court has
maintained that it cannot be claimed that neither the instructor of a procedure
administrative sanctioning, much less the body called to resolve the file,
enjoy the same guarantees as the judicial bodies (STC 14/1999, of 22
February, FJ 4).
Consequently, the interpretation and application of the regime of abstention and
recusal of those who make up the administrative bodies belongs to the scope of the
ordinary legality, without being able to use the remedy of amparo to review
the one carried out by the Courts, in this case by the military jurisdiction, since the
appeal for amparo does not constitute a third judicial instance in which they can
discussing problems of mere ordinary legality (ATC 170/1987, of February 11, FJ
two)." (emphasis ours)

Thus, in light of the preceding exposition, the so many times invoked by the
claimed "clear rupture of the principle of separation of the instruction phase and
sanction” that would have affected the impartiality of the examining body, with the
consequent violation of the essential guarantees of the procedure protected in
the Constitution, “lacks constitutional relevance for the purposes of art. 24.2 CE.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/48

On the other hand, it is worth underlining another aspect of the invoked guarantee that does nothing but
further evidence the radical inconsistency of the arguments that the claimed
wields to support the nullity of the procedure.

Whether we look at the origin of this procedural guarantee, recognized in the
judicial field by article 24.2 of the C.E., as well as its subsequent development by the
T.C., its content is intended to guarantee the impartiality of the judge; well what
pursues this that this impartiality is not affected by the fact of having
previously acted as an instructor.

Note that the claimed what it has been holding since its first
allegations is the alleged contamination or “direction” suffered by the instructor as
consequence of the decision-making body setting in the opening agreement the amount of
the sanction, an extreme that has nothing to do with the content of the fundamental right
to which we have been referring.

In short, even if there were no clear pronouncements of the
TC that the principle of separation of the instruction and decision phase does not
has constitutional rank in the field of administrative procedure, in no
In this case, that supposed "direction" or "contamination" of the instructor could be fitted into the
violation of a right whose content tries to protect the impartiality of the
judge avoiding their interference in acts of instruction.

To end the chapter on the alleged radical nullity of the procedure that the
claimed adduces in its defence, the following considerations should be added.

One of them related to the fundamental right to an impartial judge guaranteed in the
article 24.2 of the C.E. The respondent has referred in her two writings of
allegations that the action of the AEPD has determined that it has "seen
substantially affected the impartiality of the investigating body”, which is why
We take this opportunity to specify that this alleged affectation of the impartiality of the
instructor does not fit into that fundamental right guaranteed by article
24.2 of the C.E., for which reason the nullity of the procedure could not be founded on it either.
under section a) of article 47.1 of the LPACAP.

Regarding the right to an impartial judge, it should be noted that, furthermore, it is not
that this guarantee is not transferable to the instructor - who is the one about whom the claimed
pivots the much-desired nullity of the procedure - but not even
recognizes this right within the framework of the administrative procedure. The STC 76/1990,
legal basis 8, could not be clearer:
“The right to [...] and to a process with all the guarantees -among them, the independence
and impartiality of the judge - is a characteristic guarantee of the judicial process that does not
extends to the administrative procedure, since the strict impartiality and
independence of the organs of the judiciary is not, by essence, predicable with
equal meaning and to the same extent of the administrative bodies (SSTC
175/1987 and 22/1990...”. (emphasis ours)

Lastly, regarding the minimum content of the opening agreement foreseen in the
article 64 of the LPACAP and the "manifest contradiction" in which, according to the entity,
would have been incurred by saying that it "goes beyond" that minimum content, it is enough

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/48

point out that article 64.2 indicates that "it must contain at least
 ”, “b) [...] the
sanctions that may correspond, without prejudice to what results from the investigation.

 

So, as stated at the time, the agreement to open this
procedure not only met the requirements of article 64.2 LPACAP - it established the facts
that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible qualification and the sanctions that
could correspond - but "went further" because it detailed, among other things,
the modifying circumstances of the responsibility that were appreciated in that phase.

With this, neither "a kind of benefit is granted to the company" nor are they "undermined"
“the rights enshrined in article 24 of the Constitution.”, as we
reproaches the claimed. Comment that is still striking if we take into account
that one of the arguments put forward by the respondent in her allegations to the
opening agreement was the poor argumentation of the circumstances
modifications of the responsibility set forth in the aforementioned agreement.

In short, the guarantees granted to the defendant in the administrative procedure
sanctioning and the rules governing the procedure have been respected
scrupulously. The extremes mentioned by the claimed in its two writings
of allegations do not entail the violation of any fundamental right recognized
in article 24.2 of the C.E. in which to support the concurrence of the reason for
radical nullity of article 47.1.a) LPACAP.

With respect to the remaining issues raised regarding the nullity of the
procedure, which are nothing more than a reiteration of what the respondent alleged against the
agreement to initiate the file, we refer to what was stated in the brief of
proposal, which is reproduced at the beginning of this Basis.

Based on the foregoing, the claim of the respondent to declare the
nullity of the procedure.

III

The RGPD dedicates article 5 to the principles that govern the processing of data
personal and has:

"1. The personal data will be:
a) treated lawfully, loyally and transparently with the interested party (<<lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency>>)
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");
(…)
2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”

Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, specifies in section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/48

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:
a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;
d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person.
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

Recital 47 of the RGPD states:

“The legitimate interest of a data controller, including that of a data controller
that personal data, or that of a third party, may be communicated may constitute a
legal basis for the treatment, provided that the interests or interests do not prevail.
rights and freedoms of the data subject, taking into account reasonable expectations
of the interested parties based on their relationship with the person in charge. Such legitimate interest
could occur, for example, when there is a relevant and appropriate relationship between the
data subject and controller, such as in situations where the data subject is a customer or
is at the service of the person in charge. In any case, the existence of a legitimate interest
would require careful evaluation, even if a stakeholder can reasonably anticipate
reasonable, at the time and in the context of the collection of personal data, which
processing may occur for that purpose. In particular, the interests and rights
interests of the interested party could prevail over the interests of the person in charge
of treatment when proceeding to the treatment of personal data in
circumstances in which the data subject does not reasonably expect that a
further treatment. Since it is up to the legislator to establish by law the basis
law for the processing of personal data by public authorities,
this legal basis should not apply to processing carried out by authorities
public in the performance of their duties. The processing of personal data
strictly necessary for the prevention of fraud also constitutes an interest
of the data controller in question. Data processing
personal information for direct marketing purposes may be considered made by
legitimate interest.” (emphasis ours)

IV

The person claimed in this sanctioning procedure is attributed an infraction
of article 6.1.f) of the RGPD materialized in having sent by postal mail a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/48

commercial communication to the claimant, his client, almost two years after
he had stated that he did not wish to receive commercial communications or
advertising and that the respondent replied that she had adopted the measures
necessary to meet your request.

1. In general, notwithstanding the necessary weighing judgment that the
responsible for the treatment must do and "provided that the interests do not prevail
or the rights and freedoms of the interested party”, their legitimate interest may constitute the basis
legal treatment of personal data for direct marketing purposes
with respect to those who are their clients, given that it is considered that
there is a reasonable expectation of such customers to receive advertising, based on the
commercial relationship that unites them with the data controller. This is inferred from
article 6.1.f) of the RGPD in connection with article 21.3 and Considerations 47, 69 and
70 of the RGPD,

Article 21 of the RGPD regulates the right of opposition in the following terms:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to object at any time, for reasons
related to your particular situation, to which personal data concerning you
are subject to processing based on the provisions of Article 6, paragraph 1,
letters e) or f), including profiling on the basis of these provisions.
The controller will stop processing the personal data, unless
prove compelling legitimate reasons for the treatment that prevail over the
interests, rights and freedoms of the interested party, or for the formulation, the
exercise or defense of claims.
2. When the processing of personal data is for marketing purposes
directly, the interested party shall have the right to object at any time to the processing of
the personal data that concerns you, including the elaboration of profiles in the
insofar as it is related to said marketing.
3. When the interested party opposes the treatment for direct marketing purposes,
personal data will no longer be processed for these purposes.
4. At the latest at the time of the first communication with the data subject, the
right indicated in sections 1 and 2 will be explicitly mentioned to the interested party
and will be presented clearly and apart from any other information.
5. In the context of the use of information society services, and not
Notwithstanding the provisions of Directive 2002/58/EC, the interested party may exercise their
right to oppose by automated means that apply specifications
techniques.
(...)”. (emphasis ours)

On the other hand, Recitals 69 and 70 of the RGPD say:

(69) In cases where personal data may be lawfully processed because
[...] or for reasons of legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party, the interested party
You should, however, have the right to object to the processing of any data
information regarding your particular situation. It must be the person responsible who proves
that its compelling legitimate interests prevail over the interests or rights
and fundamental freedoms of the interested party. (emphasis ours)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/48

(70) If personal data is processed for direct marketing purposes, the
The interested party must have the right to oppose said treatment, including the
profiling to the extent related to such marketing
directly, whether in respect of initial or subsequent treatment, and this in any
time and at no cost. Said right must be explicitly communicated to the
interested and presented clearly and apart from any other information.” (The
underlining is ours)

Regarding the right of opposition provided for in article 21.3 of the RGPD, it is brought to
collation of what is stated in document Wp217 of the Article 29 Working Group,
Opinion 6/2014, on the concept of legitimate interest of the person responsible for the
data processing under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC. Starting from
the provisions of article 14.b) of the Directive – “oppose, upon request and free of charge,
to the treatment of personal data that concerns you with respect to the
which the person in charge foresees a treatment destined to the prospection; [...]”- and with the
purpose of illustrating in which cases an opt-out clause could be used
In relation to article 14.a) of Directive 95/46/EC, the Opinion states the following:

“To illustrate […] the example of prospecting is useful, in relation to which
there has traditionally been a specific opt-out provision
included in article 14, letter b), of the Directive. In order to deal with the
new technological advances, this provision has been supplemented after
through specific provisions in the Directive on privacy and
electronic communications.
Under Article 13 of the Privacy and Communications Directive
electronically, for certain, more intrusive types of activities of
prospecting (such as email marketing and
automated calling systems) consent is the norm. What
exception, in existing relationships with clients in which the person responsible for the
treatment advertises its own "similar" products or services, it is sufficient
offer an (unconditional) possibility of “opt-out” without justification.
The evolution of technology has required similar solutions, relatively
simple and that follow a similar logic, for the new practices of
marketing.
Firstly, the way in which training material is delivered has evolved.
marketing: instead of simple emails that reach the
mailboxes, currently appears on the screens of phones
smart phones and computers targeted advertising based on the
behaviour. In the near future, advertising may also be included
in smart devices connected to the Internet of Things.
Second, advertising is increasingly targeted
specific: instead of being based on simple customer profiles, with more
Frequently, the activities of consumers and
Data is stored online and offline, and analyzed with methods
more sophisticated automation.
As a result of this evolution, the object of the balancing test has
varied: the issue is no longer the right to freedom of commercial expression, but
mainly the economic interest of business organizations in
Get to know your customers by tracking and monitoring their activities
online and offline, which must be weighed against the rights

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/48

(fundamental) to the privacy and protection of the personal data of these
people and their interest in not being unduly supervised.
This change in the dominant business models and the increase in the value of
personal data as an asset for business organizations explains
the recent requirement of consent in this context, in accordance with the
article 5, paragraph 3, and with article 13 of the Directive on privacy and
electronic communications.

There are, therefore, different specific rules that depend on the form of
marketing, namely:
- the unconditional right to oppose prospecting (conceived in the
context of traditional postal mail for the marketing of products
similar) under Article 14(b) of the Directive; article 7, letter f),
could be the legal basis in that case;
- the requirement of consent under Article 13 of the Directive on
privacy and electronic communications for automated calling systems,
marketing via email, fax and text messages (subject to
exceptions) and the de facto application of Article 7, letter a), of the Directive on
Data Protection.
- the consent requirement under Article 5(3) of the
Directive on privacy and electronic communications (and article 7, letter a),
of the Data Protection Directive) in the case of behavioral advertising
based on tracking techniques such as cookies that store
information in the user's terminal. (emphasis ours)

2. Seated the above, it is necessary to refer to the advertising communication about its
mortgages that the respondent sent to the claimant by mail and to the
determination of its nature, since discrepancies have arisen about it.

The respondent states that the commercial communication sent to the claimant did not
constitutes an assumption of direct marketing. Second, the respondent denies
that, even in the hypothesis of admitting that this commercial communication may
qualify as direct marketing, there would have been a treatment "for purposes" of
direct marketing and maintains that there was only a treatment with a purpose
specifically, that of providing the claimant with information on their products, treatment that
It is protected by article 6.1.b) of the RGPD. He adds that there has been no
“additional” “data processing” that could fall within the definition of
treatment that collects article 4 of the RGPD and that, even if such a
treatment this Agency has no way of proving that “its purpose” was to
direct marketing.

The position defended by the claimant through its DPD first and its writings of
arguments to the opening agreement and proposal later is as follows:

The DPD considered, with regard to the commercial advertising printed on the document
sent to the complainant that was not a "personalized business communication" and that
the claimant was not addressed by profile. For the DPO, the communication received by the
claimant was, only, "a generic and common cover for all clients, similar to
the posters that are exposed in the offices or their facades, and general
for all customers who receive their correspondence physically in paper format.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/48

In its allegations to the initial agreement, the respondent affirms that the Agency has
incurred an error by confusing the "existence of advertising of [the claimed] in the
cover included in the envelope addressed to the claimant” with “the completion of a
processing for direct marketing purposes. Idea that he reiterates when he says that the AEPD
confuses “direct marketing” with “data processing for marketing purposes
direct”, “since it is about two completely differentiated realities” OR
that “The AEPD incurs in an evident contradiction by confusing [...] the existence of
advertising with the performance of data processing for that purpose.

 

It also adds in these allegations that "the referral of said envelope with the advertising
insert” is not the
 “result of data processing for advertising purposes.
In the same way, it would not be possible to consider that we would find ourselves before a
processing of data for such purposes in the event that on the cover of the envelope
only the commercial name of my client would have appeared, even when the
AEPD, forcing the concept contained in the Start Agreement could reach
consider the mere representation of that logo as advertising.”

 It also states: "That is, [the respondent] did not perform any treatment of the data
of the interested party in order to send him information about his products, but
solely with the provision of information related to those hired by
the former, without the fact that the cover of the envelope in which the information was sent
implies any treatment of your data for the purpose intended by the AEPD. And it is
that, in this sense, [the respondent] does not deny that the information included in the title page
may be considered advertising for the purposes set forth in the regulations mentioned
the Initiation Agreement, what cannot be considered is that the fact that that
information included in the cover implies data processing for the purpose of
direct marketing, which is what is attributed to my client.” (Folio 12 of the brief of
allegations)
(emphasis ours)

  In the allegations to the proposed resolution, the respondent has stated what
Next:
“the fact that the cover of the envelope in which the aforementioned referral is made incorporates
information referring to products marketed by the entity, without having carried out
carry out treatment activity linked to the determination of the content of said
document cannot in any case imply the existence of a treatment
specific aimed at carrying out direct marketing actions, but
the mere making of a business decision about the format of the envelopes
addressed to the entity's clients. (emphasis ours)

He insists that the proposal considers that the mere fact that the title page contains
the information on the aforementioned product is sufficient to appreciate the existence of "a
personalized delivery” to the claimant “in order to promote the acquisition of the
mentioned product of the entity”; although “[...] it did not involve the realization of a
prior action by Bankia to determine whether said advertising
may or may not correspond to the preferences of the interested party”.

 proposal considers” that the fact of having sent the
It also states that the "
letter to the claimant, containing the contact information to which it is addressed

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/48

“involves carrying out two personal data processing: one related to the
development of the contractual relationship and the other derived from the pure and simple fact that
the cover of the envelope incorporates the aforementioned information”. And as a counterpoint he exposes which
is its position: that there was and carried out "a single data processing and with the sole and
exclusive purpose of sending the claimant the extracts of the contracted products,
treatment protected therefore in article 6.1.b, of the RGPD.”

Well then, taking into account that in its allegations to the proposal the claimed
denies that a previous activity had been carried out “to determine whether said
advertising may or may not correspond to the preferences of the interested party”
-comment similar to the refusal expressed by the DPD in its response to the
had sent the claimant personalized advertising - and that both cases
seem to refer to the non-existence of data profiling, the first point
What needs to be done is that, as was already noted in the motion for a resolution, this
Agency has never claimed, directly or indirectly, that the
commercial communication that the respondent sent to the claimant involved or was the result
from previous data profiling. If there has been data profiling -defined in the
article 4.4 of the RGPD- the legal basis of the treatment would not be article 6.1.f) of the
RGPD, but it would be necessary to have the express consent of the owner of the data.
data.

We anticipate that, something different from data profiling is that in the activity of
marketing would have selected a group among the target audience
Potential recipient of advertising: the one made up of the entity's clients
financial. Aspect on which there is no doubt, since the claimed party has
insisted on multiple occasions that the content of the communication regarding the
mortgages was included on the cover of the envelope used for all its clients with
opportunity to provide them with information about the contracted products, this treatment
The latter is protected by article 6.1.b) of the RGPD.

(i) The respondent denies that the commercial communication sent to the claimant can
qualify as direct marketing.

  Law 34/1988, of November 11, General Advertising (LGP) defines the
advertising as "all forms of communication carried out by a natural person or
legal, public or private, in the exercise of a commercial, industrial,
craft or professional, in order to promote directly or indirectly the
contracting of movable or immovable property, services, rights and obligations”
(article 2).

For its part, Order EHA/1718/2010, of June 11, on the regulation and control of
advertising of banking services and products - in force when the events occurred
facts that concern us - provided in article 2, paragraph 1 that, for the purposes of
established in this order, “any form of advertising is considered advertising activity.
communication by which banking products or services are offered, or disclosed
information about them, whatever the means of dissemination used: press,
radio, television, email, Internet or other electronic media, billboards
interior or exterior, billboards, leaflets, circulars and letters that are part of a
dissemination campaign, telephone calls, home visits or any other system
Of disclosure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/48

Likewise, advertising activities will be considered those communications
intended to draw public attention to management or other services,
provided by entities additionally or in relation to other products or
banking services, which do not have the status of investment services.
2. They are not considered advertising activities and, therefore, are excluded from this
order:
a) Corporate advertising campaigns, understood as those that contain
exclusively generic information about an entity or its corporate purpose that are
intended to be disclosed to the public.
b) Those informative contents that appear on the entity's own pages
on the Internet, or in another means of diffusion, that are necessary to carry out the
hiring of an operation.
c) The information on the specific characteristics of the operations
appear on the operational pages of the entity on the Internet in which they are carried out.
cape." (emphasis ours)

Advertising is an instrument used by marketing. For this reason, advertising
It's always marketing, but marketing isn't always advertising. marketing
studies and plans and advertising acts accordingly. Marketing focuses on
create a specific image for the company and understand the market and
Potential customers.

Regarding direct marketing, Philip Kotler -considered the father of marketing
modern- defines it in his book 'Fundamentals of Marketing', as "the connections
direct interviews with carefully selected individual consumers to obtain
an immediate response and cultivate lasting relationships with customers”.

Unlike mass advertising that is sent to all types of consumers, the
direct marketing is ideally for those who are believed (based on the
information collected about them) who have an interest in one of the products or
services that are offered. Among the advantages attributed to direct marketing
the message is found to be personal, making the customer feel that he is alone
for him or her; that it is possible to make a better segmentation and it is more profitable because
attempts are made to sell to individuals who have already been identified as potential
buyers.

The American Direct Marketing Association and the European Direct Marketing
Association define direct marketing as “an interactive marketing system
that uses one or more advertising media to achieve a measurable response and/or
a transaction at a given point. This concept encompasses all those
means of communication intended to create an interactive relationship with a retailer
individual, a company, client, final consumer or a contributor to a cause
determined.”

In the opinion of this Agency, the commercial communication that the claimant received from the
claimed and that has given rise to this sanctioning procedure constitutes a
direct marketing example The commercial communication was sent to the claimant by
your status as a client of the entity, as well as all clients -as the
claimed has been stating from the beginning-, so it would fit into a
direct marketing activity of the financial institution. We are not even before a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/48

mass commercial communication in which the recipient had not been
individualized.

The peculiarity presented in this case by the commercial information sent to the
claimant and the rest of the clients of the respondent is that she was not included in a
separate document, but was included - which is undoubtedly more
economic - in the same documentary support on which the data appears
identifiers of the recipient of the postal item, since the envelope used was one of the
called window in which the recipient's data is printed
inside him. The document that simultaneously supported the information
business and the details of the addressee of the letter - to which the claimed letter refers
as "envelope cover" - is described in Proven Fact 2 of the resolution, to which
we refer The commercial communication in this case informed of the
main characteristics of the product that the entity marketed and invited the
client, to obtain more information, to consult the website or to go to your office
banking.

It is irrelevant for the purposes of the advertising communication sent being
considered direct marketing that would have been printed on the same document that
served as support for the data of the addressee of the letter or cover of the envelope. It
relevant is that the defendant directed the commercial information to a client of hers, since
was included in the envelope with other information sent to the claimant while it was
client; that was used for all the clients of the entity and that was directed, in the case
of the claimant and in that of the rest of the clients, to people who were perfectly
individualized and identified.

As was said at the time, it is a personalized communication; not in the sense
which appears to have been used by the DPD of the entity, linked to the profiling of the data
-an issue to which we have already made reference in previous paragraphs- but because
included in an envelope that was addressed to the claimant, identifying him in a way
unequivocal for your personal data.

(ii) The respondent denies that the personal data of the claimant had been processed
for direct marketing purposes.

The commercial communication about the mortgages that was sent to the claimant by his
condition of client of the entity -since, as the defendant has stated
insistently, he used it without any discrimination for all his clients -, and that for
This Agency is an example of the direct marketing activity of the
claimed, was included in an envelope addressed to the claimant (in his name and address)
together with the information related to the financial products that it had contracted with
she.

It is estimated, therefore, as stated in the motion for a resolution, that the data
personal data of the claimant were treated with a dual purpose: On the one hand, the
claimed processed the data of the claimant in order to provide information
regarding the contracted services. The legal basis of the treatment carried out with such
end is article 6.1.b. RGPD, as this treatment is necessary for the execution of the
contract that linked the claimant and the respondent. In addition, the data of
claimant were processed for a purpose other than the above:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/48

send you advertising about your mortgages. The advertising sent to the clients of
the entity in this way -printed on the cover of the envelope- is not as intended by the
claimed fruit almost of chance since while admitting that it is a
advertising communication denies that it responds to a specific marketing purpose.

In the case examined, the processing of the claimant's data was intended,
in addition to the original purpose, related to the reason for collecting the data
-the conclusion of a contract between claimed and claimant- a purpose other than
that. What that purpose is is evident from the content of the
advertising communication and the circumstance that the defendant has recognized in
at all times that the same communication was included on the cover of the envelope that was
he sent to all his clients. This ulterior purpose -direct marketing- of the
processing of the claimant's data requires a specific legal basis that legitimizes
the treatment that is different from that referred to in article 6.1.b) of the RGPD.
  
At this point it seems advisable to reproduce what was stated by the claimed
in his arguments to the initial agreement on "what was the interpretation that had to be
be given to the concept of treatment and that of purpose, in accordance with the criteria supported
by the Article 29 Working Group and ratified by the European Committee on
Data Protection.":

[...] it should be remembered that although the defunct Article 29 Working Group (in
hereinafter, "GT29") nor the European Committee for Data Protection (hereinafter,
for its acronym in English, “EDPB”) have not analyzed in any document the
legal notion of “Purpose” from the point of view of the application of the
data protection regulations, they have had the opportunity to refer to this
concept in some of its opinions and documents.

Thus, in its Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation, adopted on the 2nd of
April 2013 (hereinafter, the “WP203 Document”) equates the concepts of
purpose and objective of the treatment (“purpose” and “aim” in the English version, only
available from it). Thus, in its section II.2.1, the WP29 states that “Article
6. 1 b) of the Directive requires that personal data is only collected for the purposes
"specific, explicit and legitimate". Data is collected for certain
objectives; these objectives are the "raison d'être" of the operations of
treatment". It follows that the purpose must be understood as the
“objective” or “reason for being” of the treatment. For this reason, continue the
mentioned opinion, “[a]s a prerequisite for other quality requirements
of the data, the specification of the purpose will determine the relevant data
to be collected, retention periods and all other aspects
key to how the personal data will be processed for the chosen purposes”.

For its part, the WG29 also pointed out in section III.3.1. of your opinion
06/2014 [...] (hereinafter, the “WP217 Document”), which “[i]n terms of
data protection, purpose is the specific reason why the data is processed.
data: the purpose or intention of data processing”.

And it is that, as Document WP103 also indicates at the beginning of its section II.2
“[t]he specification of the purpose is an essential condition for the treatment
of personal data and a prerequisite for applying other quality requirements
of data. The specification of the purpose and the concept of compatible use

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/48

they contribute to transparency, legal certainty and predictability; its
The goal is to protect the data subject by setting limits on how
Those responsible can use your data and reinforce loyalty in the treatment”.

Well then, applying the delimitation of the concept of “purpose” deduced from the
mentioned WG29 documents, my principal considers, in contrast to what
invoked by the AEPD in its Start Agreement, which it has not carried out
carry out a treatment of the Claimant's data whose "reason for being", "objective" or
“ultimate intention” consists of carrying out direct marketing activities.”

The quotes obtained from the WG29 documents referred to in the
claimed are perfectly consistent with the thesis of this AEPD. couldn't be from
otherwise, since the RGPD clearly provides in its article 5.1.b), a sensu
contrary, -precept almost identical to article 6.1.b) of Directive 95/46/CE- that the
personal data may be processed for purposes other than the “specified,
explicit and legitimate" for which they were collected, provided that such further processing
not incompatible with the original treatment. To this end, article 6.4 of the RGPD
offers a series of criteria to be taken into consideration to determine if the
processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which the data was collected
initially.

Article 6.4 of the RGPD provides:

"4. When treatment for a purpose other than that for which the data was collected
personal data is not based on the consent of the interested party or on the Law
of the Union or of the Member States which constitutes a necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard the stated objectives
in article 23, paragraph 1, the data controller, in order to determine
if processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which they were collected
initially the personal data, will take into account, among other things:
a) any relationship between the purposes for which the data was collected
data and the purposes of the intended further processing;
b) the context in which the personal data have been collected, in particular by what
regarding the relationship between the interested parties and the data controller;
c) the nature of the personal data, specifically when categories are processed
special personal data, in accordance with article 9, or personal data
relating to criminal convictions and offences, in accordance with article 10;
d) the possible consequences for data subjects of the envisaged further processing;
e) the existence of adequate guarantees, which may include encryption or
pseudonymization.”

3. The treatment of the personal data of the claimant carried out with a purpose
specific to direct marketing, other than the purpose of the initial treatment that
determined the collection of the data, it must be based on a specific legal basis.

As stated, when the purpose of further processing is the
communications for direct marketing purposes addressed to those who maintain a relationship
with the data controller, such as a prior contractual relationship, which generates
a reasonable expectation in the interested party of the subsequent use of their data with that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/48

purpose, the legal basis of the treatment may be the circumstance described in the
article 6.1.f) of the RGPD.

In this sense, it should be remembered that both the DPD, in its informative response to the
Subdirectorate of Data Inspection, prior to the claim being processed,
as the representative of the respondent in their allegations to the initial agreement, have
stated that the legal basis for the processing of personal data of
clients that the entity carries out for commercial purposes is the legitimate interest that
it holds in accordance with article 6.1.f RGPD.

The DPD of the claimed party, in his response to the informative request of the Subdirectorate
of Inspection, stated that the legal basis for processing the claimant's data
for commercial purposes was the legitimate interest (article 6.1.f. RGPD) He then stated:
  “And therefore, it must be understood that it is a shipment protected by the interest
legitimate of [¿?] as reported in the privacy policy of the entity, when
be referred in general to products or services marketed by the
entity and similar to the products contracted by its clients (products
financial).”
(The underlining is from the AEPD)

For its part, the respondent, in the process of pleadings to the initial agreement, provided a
privacy policy document that indicated that the personal data of the
clients would be treated, without prejudice to the special conditions established
in relation to each product contracted by them, for six purposes
determined and in which it was specified, with respect to each of those purposes
treatment, what was its correlative legal basis. Points 3 and 4 say what
Next:
"3. Improve the web pages or tools owned by Bankia, as well as their
products and services, in order to offer better quality and service to the user,
develop new products/services or improve the entity's internal processes
(Legitimation of the treatment: Consent of the user (cookies) and Legitimate interest).

4. Send commercial communications about products and services, own or of
third parties (Legitimation of the treatment: Consent of the user).” (The underline is
our)

As can be seen, point 4 of the privacy policy document of the
entity indicates that the legal basis of the treatment, when the purpose is "send
commercial communications about products and services, own or third parties” - without
make any additional precision that narrows down the very general category of
commercial communications - is consent. And in section 3 it says that the
Legitimate interest operates as the basis of the treatment -with the exception of the
cookies, whose basis is consent- consisting of "improving the pages or
web tools owned by Bankia, as well as its products and services, provided that
offer better quality and service to the user, develop new products/services
or improve the internal processes of the entity”.

The apparent contradiction between what the DPD stated in its response to the
request for information - which argued that the legal basis for the treatment of
customer data for commercial purposes was the legitimate interest - and point 4 of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/48

privacy policy document provided by the claimed party, it is resolved by the
claimed that comes to manifest in its allegations to the initial agreement, with total
emphatically, which is protected by the legitimate interest of the entity (article 6.1.f) of the
RGPD) “the sending of commercial communications of own products or services or
of third parties, [...], when it is carried out by postal means...” (The underlining is
our)

Well, as has been stated, for this Agency, the commercial communication that the
claimant received from the respondent and which has given rise to this proceeding
sanctioning is an example of direct marketing. In the present case, the
treatment carried out by the defendant, in principle, since obviously it does not
there is consent of the interested party, it could only rely on the concurrence
of the circumstance of article 6.1.f) of the RGPD.

However, it has been proven in the file that the claimant, a client of the
claimed, addressed her on 11/04/2018 through the channel enabled for such
order and communicated his desire not to receive commercial information or communications
advertising (Proven fact 3) Likewise, it is proven in the file that the
Responded to the claimant in writing dated 11/21/2018 that it had attended
“Completely” your request not to receive information of a commercial nature or
entity advertising. (Proven Fact 3)

At the same time, it is proven that almost two years later, on 02/11/2020, the
The claimant received a letter by post from the claimant in which he
sent, in addition to information about the products that he had contracted with her -in
compliance with the obligations arising from the contractual relationship between
both- information of a commercial nature about the mortgages it sells. Is
business information was therefore included within the addressed envelope
personally to the claimant; to your name and surnames and to your address.

Thus, as a result of the response to the complainant of 11/21/2018, and in accordance with article
21.3 of the RGPD, the claimed party lacked legitimacy to process personal data
of the claimant for direct marketing purposes.

In short, the processing of the claimant's personal data carried out by the
claimed at a later date, February 2020, for direct marketing purposes, not
could be based on the circumstance of article 6.1.f of the RGPD.

4. In sanctioning matters, the principle of culpability governs in our Law. The
presence of the subjective element as an essential condition to demand responsibility
sanctioning has been recognized by the Constitutional Court, among others, in STC
76/1999, in which it states that administrative sanctions participate in the same
nature than criminal ones, being one of the manifestations of the ius puniendi of the
State, and that, as a requirement derived from the principles of legal certainty and
criminal legality enshrined in articles 9.3 and 25.1 of the CE, it is essential to
existence to impose them.

 In turn, Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector
provides in article 28.1: "They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting
administrative infraction natural and legal persons, [...], that result

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/48

responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.” In light of this precept, the
sanctioning responsibility can be demanded by way of intent or guilt, being
sufficient in this last case the mere non-observance of the duty of care.

If it is taken into consideration that the respondent has not been able to qualify adequately,
as an assumption of direct marketing, the treatment that has been carried out with that
purpose of the data of its clients, with the consequence of not having respected the
right of opposition exercised by the respondent, the lack of diligence shown is
very serious.
 
Regarding the degree of diligence that the data controller is obliged to
deploy in the fulfillment of the obligations imposed by the regulations of
data protection, the SAN of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006), after referring to the fact that
the entities in which the development of their activity entails a continuous treatment
of customer data and third parties must observe an adequate level of diligence,
specified that “….the Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence
whenever a legal duty of care is disregarded, that is, when the offender fails to
behaves with due diligence. And in assessing the degree of diligence,
especially weigh the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that,
in the case now examined, when the appellant's activity is constant and
abundant handling of personal data, it must be insisted on the rigor and
exquisite care to adjust to the legal precautions in this regard”. (The underlined
is from the AEPD)

Especially significant is also the SAN of 04/29/2010, which in its Basis
Juridical sixth indicated: "The question is not to elucidate if the appellant treated the data of
personal nature of the complainant without her consent, such as whether or not she used a
reasonable diligence in trying to identify the person with whom you signed
contract".

In view of the foregoing, the treatment carried out by the claimed party of the data of the
claimant with a direct marketing purpose violated the principle of legality in
relation to article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, infraction subsumable in the sanctioning type
of article 83.5 RGPD, which states:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:
a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

In turn, the LOPDGDD in its article 72.1.b), for prescription purposes, qualifies as
very serious infringement “The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
the conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”

v

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/48

Article 58 of the RGPD, under the heading "Powers", establishes in its section 2 that
“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
a) send a warning to any data controller or data processor when the
planned treatment operations may infringe the provisions of this Re-
glament;
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
c) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to attend to the requests for
exercise of the rights of the interested party under this Regulation;
d) order the controller or processor that the processing operations
compliance with the provisions of this Regulation, where applicable, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;
e) order the data controller to notify the interested party of the violations
of the security of personal data;
f) impose a temporary or definitive limitation of the treatment, including its prohibition;
g) order the rectification or deletion of personal data or the limitation of processing
under Articles 16, 17 and 18 and notification of such measures to the des-
recipients to whom personal data have been communicated pursuant to article
17, section 2, and article 19;
h) withdraw a certification or order the certification body to withdraw a certification
cation issued in accordance with articles 42 and 43, or order the certification body
tion that a certification is not issued if the requirements are not met or are no longer met.
sites for certification;
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;
j) order the suspension of data flows to a recipient located in a third party.
certain country or to an international organization.” (The underlining is from the AEPD)

1. Replacement of the sanction of a fine by a warning.
The respondent has requested in her two pleadings that, in substitution of
the administrative fine provided for in the initiation agreement, the AEPD sends a
warning and, subsidiarily, that the amount of the fine sanction be reduced
set in the opening agreement at 50,000 euros. About the first of his
claims we refer to Recital 148 of the RGPD.

The respondent has criticized in the hearing procedure that the response of the AEPD to her
claim has been limited to transcribing Recital 148 of the RGPD because it says that
that recital assesses only two elements: that the fine that could
be imposed constitutes a disproportionate burden for the natural person – element
that is not applicable to the case- or that the infraction is minor. He claims that in the
present assumption the infraction is minor; indicates that the lightness to which the GDPR is
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/48

refers has nothing to do with the classification that the LOPDGDD makes of the
minor, serious and very serious infractions and that when Recital 148 refers to
The seriousness or lightness of the sanction refers to the cases in which it has been
produced or not a commitment particularly relevant to the fundamental right
to data protection.

In defense of its position, the respondent mentions document WP253 of the Group of
Work on article 29, “Guidelines on the application and setting of fines
for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679” from which this excerpt is transcribed:

“In recital 148, the notion of “minor infringements” is presented. sayings
Violations may constitute violations of one or more provisions of the
Regulation cited in article 83, paragraphs 4 or 5. However, the
evaluation of the criteria provided for in Article 83, paragraph 2, can give
result in the supervisory authority deeming, for example, that in the circumstances
circumstances of the case the violation does not entail a significant risk for the
rights of the interested parties and does not affect the essence of the obligation in
question. In such cases, the fine may (although not always) be replaced by
a warning.”
(emphasis ours)

This Agency, however, does not consider that the infraction for which it is responsible
to the one claimed is minor, let alone that the substitution of the imposed fine is appropriate
for a warning.

In contrast to the factors that the respondent has highlighted, it is worth mentioning other
especially relevant: It is appreciated that the behavior of the claimed “yes” entails a
serious risk for the rights of the interested parties, in particular for their clients before
the obvious lack of protection in which they find themselves in front of a person in charge who
processes your data for direct marketing purposes despite having exercised
the interested party the right to oppose said treatment. There is a serious lack of
diligence of the entity that, by incorrectly qualifying the data processing that
makes, is unable to respect the rights that the RGPD grants to the owners
of the data. And we are dealing with an entity (both the absorbed entity and its
successor) of great scope from the point of view of the volume of clients and, therefore,
consequently, of personal data subject to treatment.

2. Corrective measures additional to the sanction of a fine.
Article 83.2 of the RGPD expressly authorizes the control authority to impose,
"in addition" to the administrative fine, the corrective measures provided for in the
article 58.2 of the RGPD.

The proposed resolution provided for the AEPD to order the respondent, by
infringement of article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a of the RGPD, which
adopt “within a maximum period of one month, the necessary measures to adjust its
treatment operations to the provisions of the RGPD; in such a way as to put
end to the processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes regarding
those customers who have opposed the processing of their data with such
purpose.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/48

In her arguments to the proposed resolution, the respondent says (third argument
of your writing) that said requirement is impossible to comply with due to the
the extinction of the entity against which the AEPD intends to direct this measure. And adds
that the disappearance of BANKIA from legal traffic means that it cannot carry out
no processing of personal data.

Faced with what was stated by the respondent, it must be indicated that demanding that the successor of
BANKIA, in whose legal position it has been subrogated, adopt the "necessary measures
to adjust its treatment operations to the provisions of the RGPD; such
way that puts an end to the processing of personal data for marketing purposes
directly with respect to those clients who have opposed the treatment of their
data for this purpose.” is fully compliant by the current
claimed in the event that at the present time he was carrying out
data processing analogous to that which is the subject of this disciplinary proceeding.

In any case, it is recalled that article 83.6 of the RGPD expressly sanctions the
Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority.

SAW

In consideration of what is indicated in the previous Basis, due to the infraction of article
6.1.f, of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a, of the RGPD, it is considered appropriate
adopt the following corrective measures against the claimed party:

1. In accordance with article 58.2.d) RGPD, order the claimed party that, in the
period of one month, computed from the time this resolution is enforceable, adopt
the measures that are necessary to adjust its treatment operations to the
GDPR provisions; in such a way as to put an end to data processing
for direct marketing purposes with respect to those customers who
have opposed the processing of their data for this purpose.

2. In accordance with article 58.2.i) of the RGPD, impose a fine sanction
administrative.

The respondent requested in the pleadings to the initial agreement that the
amount of the sanction of a fine and stated that, in determining its amount in
the agreement to open the procedure, the principle of proportionality was violated
because the amount of the administrative fine established in it "does not adjust to the valuation of
the mitigating and aggravating factors that the agreement itself takes into consideration.”
The respondent argued in this sense that the resolution of PS/00076/2020 does not
took into consideration the circumstance, which was appreciated in this case as
aggravating circumstance, of the link between the activity that the entity carries out with the treatment of
personal data and that in the aforementioned resolution it was qualified that the lack of
diligence of the claimed was "significant", which, it says, is not indicated in this
case.

Well then, in the initial agreement, when adjusting the amount of the sanction of a fine,
warned that the circumstances were appreciated "in an initial assessment," and it was made
reference not to a significant lack of diligence but to a “serious lack of diligence”.
diligence". On the other hand, the principle of proportionality requires that there be a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/48

correspondence between the seriousness of a behavior and the sanctioning consequence
attributed to it, so the violation of said principle will occur when such
correspondence does not exist, which does not occur in this case in view of the behavior
offender and the agreed fine and measure.

3. Determination of the amount of the fine sanction.
In determining the fine to be imposed on the person claimed for the infraction
of the RGPD for which it is responsible, article 6.1.f) RGPD, typified in the article
83.5.a RGPD, the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the
RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/48

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
“Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In the case analyzed, the concurrence of the following factors that
They operate by aggravating the responsibility required of the entity because they show a
greater unlawfulness of their conduct or greater culpability:

-Article 83.2.a) of the RGPD: “the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement
taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation,
as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages suffered.”

The conduct in which the infringement attributed to the claimed person is specified affects a
basic principle in terms of data protection, the legality of the treatment. The
defendant considers that the commercial communications that it sends to its clients
whose content is printed on the same document that supports the data
of the addressee of the letter - document that the claimed person identifies as the cover of the
about- do not imply a treatment with the purpose of direct marketing. given account
that according to what he declares have been sent to all his clients, he has not discriminated

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/48

previously if they have opposed the processing of their data for this purpose. Also,
This point requires taking into consideration the scope of the treatment contrary to the
RGPD carried out by the claimed party, which goes beyond the processing of personal data.
a single person (the claimant). Together with this consideration included in the proposal
resolution, it was specified then that such extremes prevented this circumstance from
could be applied as a mitigating measure, as had been applied in the agreement of
started on the basis that there was no evidence of damages suffered by the person of the
claimant.

-Article 83.2.b) the intentionality or negligence of the infraction;

In the proposed resolution it was pointed out, regarding this aggravating circumstance, that "It
appreciates a serious lack of diligence in the actions of the defendant because, considering
to the volume of its activity and the volume of clients, it can be presumed that in its activity
The processing of data for direct marketing purposes is frequent and the assumptions in
which customers oppose the processing of their data for that purpose.” In the
hearing process the respondent has stated that we are facing a presumption
lacking evidentiary support that violates the right to the presumption of innocence.

Although, in principle, the reasoning used in the proposal could be
inadmissible for the reasons that are pointed out, this is not an obstacle to the appreciation of such
circumstance on the basis of considerations about the guilt of the
entity and, in particular, its very serious lack of diligence, have been made in the
Foundation IV, last section.

It is also highly debatable that it implies a violation of the presumption of
innocence the statement that can be presumed, taking into account the volume of activity
and the volume of clients, which is not uncommon for the defendant to have made
treatment for direct marketing purposes or that would have been exercised by some other
client other than the claimant the right to oppose these treatments.
Let us remember that notorious facts do not need to be proven and have that
condition the economic size and the millionaire number of clients of the entity
claimed.

- The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
processing of personal data (article 83.2.k, of the RGPD in relation to article
76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD) The activity of the defendant requires that numerous
personal data of its clients, therefore, given the very important volume
of business of the claimed financial institution when the events occur, the
significance that their offending conduct may have is undeniable.

-Any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or in charge of treatment
(article 83.2.e of the RGPD)

It is worth mentioning to this effect, in addition, the sanctioning resolution relapsed in the
PS/00076/2020 for violation of article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, signed on 08/26/2020,
the sanctioning resolutions issued in procedures PS/00199/2018, for
infringement of article 6.1. of the Organic Law 15/1999, of data protection of
personal character (LOPD) and signed on 06/11/2018 and in PS/00525/2017, by
violation of article 64.3 of the LOPD, signed on 04/26/2018.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/48

The respondent has criticized in the hearing process the application of this aggravating circumstance and
indicates that the facts for which the entity was sanctioned in PS/00076/2020 nothing
they have to do with those that are the object of assessment in this case. To that end
We must remember that the provision of article 83.2.e) of the RGPD has a
other than article 29.3.d) of Law 40/2015.

It operates as a circumstance that mitigates the seriousness of the infraction:

-Article 83.2.k, RGPD, in relation to article 76.2.e) of the LOPDGDD: “The
existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.”

On 03/26/2021 -therefore, after the infraction was committed- the
registered in the Mercantile Registry the public deed with the merger agreement by
absorption between the claimed entity (as absorbed entity) and CAIXABANK, S.A., (as
acquiring entity).

So things, assessed the circumstances provided for in article 83.2 of the RGPD,
sections. a), b), e) and k), the latter in relation to article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD, in
quality of aggravating circumstances of the conduct examined, and the mitigating factor provided for in article
83.2.k) RGPD in relation to article 76.2.e) of the LOPDGDD, it is estimated
appropriate to sanction the claimed for the infringement of article 6.1.f of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5.a RGPD, with an administrative fine of 50,000 euros.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CAIXABANK, S.A., with NIF A08663619 -previously BANKIA, S.A.-,
for an infringement of article 6.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a of the
RGPD, an administrative fine sanction (article 58.2.i RGPD) for an amount of
€50,000 (fifty thousand euros)

SECOND: ORDER CAIXABANK, S.A., with NIF A08663619 -formerly BANKIA,
S.A.- that, in accordance with article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, within a maximum period of one month from
that the resolution is enforceable, adopt the necessary measures to adapt the
treatment operations that it carries out to the provisions of the RGPD, so that
put an end to the processing for direct marketing purposes of the personal data
staff of those clients who have opposed the processing of their data with
that purpose.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to CAIXABANK, S.A., with NIF
A08663619.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment period

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/48

established in article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by
Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to article 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
The firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other records provided for in article 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-131120

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

