

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data in connection with the acquisition and storage of copies of identity cards (UOOU-03866/20)
Lender)


The inspection was carried out on the basis of the Inspection
of the Office's plan for 2020. The subject of the inspection was
compliance with obligations in:        verification of processing procedures
personal data when applying for a financial product,
primarily in relation to the process of obtaining personal data, making copies of civil ones
cards and their retention period (especially if the store is not closed at all, whatever
at the initiative of the company or the client), fulfillment of the proper information obligation, fulfillment of the data subject's right "to be
forgotten" in the sense of Article 17 of the general regulation.

The inspectors found that the inspected person was processing
adequate, relevant
and the necessary extent of personal data in relation to the individual purposes for which
are processed correctly, legally and transparently, while personal
does not process data for longer than is necessary to achieve the purposes for which
have been processed. The processing of personal data is controlled
by a person takes place: on the basis of consent
data subject with the processing of his personal data for one or more specific
purposes (e.g. the right of the controlled person in connection with enforcement
of claims to publish data on the data subject together with data on existence
debt, data subject consent for marketing purposes, consent to processing
electronic signature, etc.) based on fulfillment
contract, to take action
received before the conclusion of the contract
at the request of the data subject, processing is necessary
to fulfill a legal obligation (e.g. Act No.
257/2016 Coll., on consumer credit, Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on the protection
consumers, Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against legalization
proceeds from criminal activity and terrorist financing, Act No. 586/1992 Coll.,
on income taxes, Act No. 563/1991 Coll., on accounting), based on the legitimate interests of the auditee or a third party, except
cases where interests or fundamental rights take precedence over these interests and
freedom of the data subject requiring protection of personal data. Copies identity cards
controlled person based on the law
No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of criminal proceeds
activities and financing of terrorism, and therefore as a liable person must perform
client identification and control. The subject distinguishes two possible ones
variants: concluding the contract exclusively through
means of distance communication. The client is obliged to send the inspected person
according to § 11 paragraph 7 of Act No. 253/2008 Coll. a copy of the identity card and more
of a supporting document from which his identification data can be found according to
Act No. 253/2008 Coll. The legal basis for obtaining a copy of the identity card
is therefore the fulfillment of a legal obligation. entering into a contract,
which is not concluded exclusively by means of distance communication.
The client presents his identity card (citizen card) to the inspected person,
from which the controlled person records his identification data. A copy
in these cases, the inspected person obtains the ID card only
with the prior consent of the client (consent is voluntary, conclusion of the contract
not subject to this consent).

Time
the retention of personal data by the controlled person is 10 years and expires
from the maximum length of the limitation period according to Act No. 89/2012 Coll., civil
Code, and further from Act No. 253/2008 Coll. Controlled person protection information
personal data, i.e. also about its processing, is provided on its website
pages.

Controlled
the person has evaluated the severity and probability of the risks associated with the processing
personal data and subsequently adopted technical and organizational
measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the given risk. By checking
no violation of the general regulation was found.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Financial services and insurance industry > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with the acquisition and by keeping copies of identity cards (UOOU-03866/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



