
Prompted by numerous questions from citizens regarding the processing of personal data, on Monday, February 21, 2022, the Personal Data Protection Agency held a webinar "How to protect your personal data and what are my rights" intended for citizens.
The Director of the Agency, Zdravko Vukić, addressed the citizens and pointed out that our personal data is our most valuable asset. "The right to protect personal data is a fundamental human right, and the General Data Protection Regulation guarantees citizens greater rights and control over personal data," said director Vukić.
Citizens are often unaware of what can happen if their personal data ends up in the hands of an unknown and unverified person. In this case, there is a possibility of illegal publication of personal data, identity theft and other misuse of personal data, i.e. material and/or non-material damage is possible. In order to reduce the possibility of abuse to a minimum, the Agency's employees advised citizens how to properly protect themselves, because self-protective behavior is the best prevention.
Also, all those present could find out what their rights are guaranteed by the General Data Protection Regulation and how to exercise them. It was emphasized that in order to exercise their rights, citizens should first contact the controller (e.g. the bank where they have a loan, school, hospital, etc.), and if the controller does not comply with the request, it is necessary to contact the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data with a request to determine the violation of rights.
Let us remind you that the Agency created the mobile application "GDPR Croatia" precisely with the aim of acquainting citizens with their rights, which is available for free download on the App store and Google play.
At the end of the webinar, citizens had the opportunity to ask questions and thus resolve their doubts regarding the processing of personal data.
On this occasion, a brochure for citizens "How to protect your personal data online?", created by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, was presented to citizens in a simple way, through examples, to bring closer to citizens all the dangers that the Internet hides, as well as advice on how to avoid them. protect. You can view the brochure here.
Given the interest, a new webinar for citizens will be held in March.
































