
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09/28/2021
                                LfDI starts cooperation with Mainz 05 as part of the "05 classroom" - Kugelmann: "Media competence should be a hit."
                
                        
                                dr Jan Lehmann, Commercial Director of Mainz 05, and LfDI Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann;
                                ©
                                LfDI RLP
                
                        
                                dr Jan Lehmann, Commercial Director of Mainz 05, and Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann signing the cooperation agreement.;
                                ©
                                LfDI RLPThe quality of the defense is one of the decisive factors in football, whether a team wins or loses a game. Pupils are now learning that there is also a lot to defend digitally in the "Digital Self-Defense" module, which the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) uses in the "05 Classroom" action program of the 1. FSV Mainz 05 e.V. involved.
In the events, which take place in the football club's stadium, the students learn how they can protect themselves and their data when using their smartphones and surfing the Internet. The "Digital Self-Defense" module is based on the LfDI student workshop program, which has been offered for over 10 years. This is about questions of the business models of social networks, self-data protection, smartphones and apps as well as current data protection policy issues - such as fake news in the run-up to the federal elections. "Knowing about your own data and how to protect it from data misuse is and will remain a basic competence of digital sovereignty," says LfDI Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelman. “We will continue to accompany adolescents on this path and provide them with what makes their everyday online life safer. Through cooperations like the one with Mainz 05, we also bring this knowledge to other places of learning”.
In addition to the new cooperation with Mainz 05, the LfDI also carried out fundamental expansions of its workshops in the course of the Corona school year 2020/21. "We reacted to the school closure by offering digital online and hybrid workshops," says Prof. Kugelmann. "Our speakers carried out methodically and didactically adapted content with the students via the various video platforms." more flexibility to integrate the content into the teaching process. The students are now used to the digital systems and using them is routine.
With around 5,000 workshops that the LfDI has now carried out from elementary school to upper school and into vocational training, the content is now firmly anchored in many schools and regularly planned. Due to the rapid change in topics, in the meantime the workshops also provide information about smartwatches and smartspeaker devices in the households of the participants as well as developments in the field of artificial intelligence (AI), the topic remains a perennial favorite even for the "old hands".
The events of the LfDI are offered free of charge for the schools, as it is supported with funds from the consumer protection department of the Ministry for Family, Women, Culture and Integration (MFFKI). In terms of content, they fit into the state program Media Competence Power School (MmS) and the Medienkomp@ss RLP of the Ministry of Education.
In addition to the face-to-face and online events at the schools, the LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate provides the workshop materials and a lot of other information, flyers and news on the joint youth homepage of the federal and state data protection officers, www.youngdata.de.
Further information: Information on the "05 classroom" Application form Regular student workshops Flyer "Privacy first hand" Links to methods and concepts on YoungDataChronology "10 years of student workshops"
                                return
                            



