GZ: DSB-D130.006/0002-DSB/2018 from 2.8.2018
  

[Note editor: Names and companies, legal forms and product names,
Addresses (incl. URLs, IP and email addresses), file numbers (and the like), etc., as well as
their initials and abbreviations may be abbreviated for reasons of pseudonymization
and/or changed. Obvious spelling, grammar and punctuation errors
have been corrected.]

 

NOTICE

S P R U C H

The data protection authority decides on the complaint of Dr. Karl A***

(complainant) from **** of June 1, 2018 against N*** Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H.

in **** (respondent) due to a violation of the right to erasure (Article 17

GDPR) as follows:

- The c o m p e n t i n g e d e l i d .

Legal basis: Section 24 (3) of the Data Protection Act (DSG), Federal Law Gazette I No. 165/1999

idgF; § 13 paragraph 3 of the General Administrative Procedures Act 1991 (AVG), Federal Law Gazette.

No. 51/1991 as amended.

REASON

A. Submissions of the Party and Course of the Procedure

1. With a submission dated July 1, 2018, the complainant claimed using a

form provided by the Data Protection Authority for such purposes

Violation of the right to erasure (Art. 17 GDPR) and essentially brought about this

reserves the right to delete "N***" regarding the automatic completion

his name when searching with the help of the N*** search engine ("AutomatSupplmt"-

function) to have exercised. "N***" rejected his application. The request were

various parts of an online correspondence with the "N***-Team" attached,

but no copy of the application originally addressed to "N***".

2. With the defect rectification order dated June 6, 2018, GZ: DSB-D130.006/0001-DSB/2018,

the DPA invited the complainant to file his complaint

to be adequately documented in accordance with the statutory provisions. By doing

The order to remedy defects was expressly based on the possibility of rejection

according to § 13 paragraph 3 AVG.

3. The following points were criticized:

“Your complaint lodged with the Data Protection Authority on June 4, 2018 proves itself
as defective and in need of improvement for the following reasons:

The following element is missing for a legally executed pursuant to Section 24 (3) DSG
Complaint:

1. regarding an alleged violation of the right to erasure of data (Art. 17

GDPR): the underlying request.

Please remedy this deficiency by improving the complaint again
add or add.

A period of two weeks is set for the fulfillment of this order to remedy defects
receipt of this letter. If there is no improvement, according to § 13
Paragraph 3 of the General Administrative Procedures Act 1991 (AVG) with the
Expect rejection of the application."

4. The complainant replied by letter dated June 7, 2018 and as follows

submitted: He submitted the corresponding application on the "N*** support site",

therefore not in writing, but via a "predefined electronic mask". The content

but emerges from the content of the correspondence with N***.

5. B. From a legal point of view it follows

6. B.1 Necessary Elements of a Complaint

7. Pursuant to Section 24 (3) DSG is the underlying application and any response

of the respondent, if necessary, to join a complaint. The template

of the relevant documents proving the exercise of the applicable

serve the right made before lodging a complaint is expressly part of the statutory provisions

required minimum content of a complaint for violation of the right to erasure

own data.

8. According to § 13 para. 3 General Administrative Procedures Act 1991 (AVG, BGBl.

No. 51/1991 as amended.) Deficiencies in written attachments do not authorize the authority to

rejection. Rather, the authority has ex officio immediately

to arrange for the defect to be remedied and the defect to be remedied within a

reasonable period of time with the effect that the attachment after fruitless

Expiry of this period will be rejected. If the defect is remedied in good time, then

the application as originally correctly submitted.

9. B.2 On the merits

10. The complainant, despite the opportunity (in the form of a

defect rectification order) does not eliminate the detected defect. that he

according to his own statements, has neither created nor saved the corresponding document,

is at his expense. The question of whether the right to erasure or "to be forgotten"

according to Art. 17 DSGVO also a right to suppress certain results of the

"AutomatSupplmt" function is new and legally unanswered (for

corresponding case law of the civil courts, based on § 16 ABGB, cf. OGH

March 30, 2016, 6 Ob 26/16s, jusIT 2016/50 S 107 (Thiele), etc.; conceivable would be present

therefore also a violation of the fundamental right to data protection according to § 1 DSG).

It would therefore be crucial from the point of view of the data protection authority

been to the exact wording of the request addressed to the person responsible

know.

11. The application submitted is incomplete in the present form and therefore not

legally compliant. The complaint was therefore in accordance with § 13 para. 3 AVG

to reject.

