1/22

 File No.: PS/00482/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On February 7, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against JIMBO NETWORKS,
SL (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00482/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out ex officio by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data before the entity, JIMBO NETWORKS, S.L. with CIF.: B66209784, holder of the
website: ***URL.1 for the alleged violation of the privacy protection regulations
Data: Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of
04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the
Treatment of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD) and the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), and Law 34/2002, of July 11, of
Services of the Information Society and Electronic Commerce (LSSI) and serving
to the following:

FACTS

FIRST: Dated 03/11/21, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to open preliminary investigation actions against
to the entity, JIMBO NETWORKS, S.L., owner of the website: ***URL.1, attending
to the investigative powers that the supervisory authority may have for this purpose,
established in section 1), of article 58 of the RGPD, and in relation to the possible

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/22

treatment of personal data of minors under fourteen years of age, obtained during the
navigation through the web page and the possible profiling of the same.

SECOND: On 03/13/21, by this Agency, in relation to the
stipulated in article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD Law, was sent to the entity, JIMBO
NETWORKS, S.L. written request for information on the following points: - The
management of the risks associated with the treatment activities in which it could be
produce an illegitimate access of a minor to the content they offer; -   The
impact assessment relating to data protection regarding the analysis of
risks; - Technical and organizational measures implemented in your entity that involve
limitation of access of minors to the content offered; - Limitations
for minors to access said content; - Privacy and location policy
public of the same; - Technical and organizational measures to be taken in your entity before
eventual verification of improper access by a minor to its contents; -
Technical and organizational measures that reflect the protection of personal data and the
processes of verification and evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures and whether they perform
profiling of the personal data of those who access its contents.

THIRD: On 04/15/21, the entity, JIMBO NETWORKS, S.L., sends this
Agency, reply brief, in which, among others, it indicates the following:

“The website ***URL.1 is a link page that does not host content from
any kind, just links to videos that are on other pages. Access to the page
It is totally free and anonymous, and therefore the person is not registered in any way.
who accesses it.

The business model is based on the advertising that is displayed on the page or in the
videos, paying the advertiser an amount of money for the number of visits that
receives the page based on the clicks made by visitors on the page, being
these totally anonymous for our company.

As has been said, this company does not process any data or
automated, neither manual, nor of any other type, nor is there incorporation of data to the file
of any kind, because, as has been said, it is totally anonymous, and indifferent to the
gender, age, race or religion of the person accessing the website, and
simply count the number of clicks that are made on the links of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/22

it, completely anonymously, and advertisers are billed in accordance with
the traffic statistics that the page has generated on the internet.

For this reason, this part understands that this Organic Law does not apply to it, and, in
Consequently, neither article 7, regarding the consent of minors
age, to which his writing refers, which is located within title II of the Law
Organic, applicable only to those natural or legal persons, who make a
treatment of the data they receive, but, in our opinion, it is not applicable to
our bussines.

Although we consider that the Organic Law does not apply, we are
aware of the danger posed by the exposure of minors to the content
pornographic that hosts our page. That is why, from the first day
we have taken into account the information of this data protection agency, and
specifically the technical notes published for the protection of minors on the Internet.
As described in that document, the protection of minors must
begin with the family, and it should be the adults, parents and guardians, who take the
appropriate technical measures to achieve the protection sought, that the
there are. From browsers to plugins that limit access, to physical firewalls or
blocks from internet operators.

To do this, it has always been inserted in the source code of our page
the label that warns of content reserved for adults on our website, in order to
that parental control programs, as well as safe browsers, and other
existing options to prevent access to inappropriate content can identify
correctly our content and blocked.

Also at the bottom of our website is the warning “If you are not older
of age you should leave this site: ”the privacy policies contain
expressly that, "The content of the page is erotic and/or pornographic. Susceptible
of hurting the sensitivity of the user. If you are a minor, you must abandon it
immediately,” as well as the 18 USC statement. 2257 Record Keeping
Requirements Compliance Statement containing the declaration that all the
people who act in the videos are, or were of legal age at the time of the
creation of the exhibited material.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/22

Finally, to answer all the points required in your writing, you must
answer that there is no record of treatment activities in which it can be
produce illegitimate access of person, since data processing is not done
of any kind, and that, therefore, what is interested in the third point cannot exist
violation of the rights and freedoms of natural persons, since those who
access the website do so completely anonymously.

This last point also serves to respond to the eighth point of your writing, and
reiterate that no follow-up of any kind is made of the people who access the
page, therefore ignoring the data related to their age, race, or sex, to the life
or the sexual orientations of the people who access the page. The website
has inserted from the design of your code, both on the main page, and
any other subpages. both the tag with the metadata that identifies it
as an adult page as the privacy policy.

Regarding the measures to be taken to prevent access by minors. and in relation to
point seven, the company periodically reviews the source code, and
ensures that the metadata tags comply with the RTA standard, as well
as other words that can alert cybersecurity programs, antivirus,
etc., of the sexual content of the page.

Two screenshots are attached, the first is of the main page of the
website, in which you can see the detail of the content of the footer of the website with the
warning that it is a site for adults, along with the policy of
privacy, cookies and the warning of the 2577 Statement. this footer,
as has been said, it always appears on all web pages.

FOURTH: On 09/09/21, this Agency carried out the following
checks on the website ***URL.1:

a).- Regarding the processing of personal data:

1.- Access to the web is free and open, not requiring any registration for the
video viewing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/22

2.- At the bottom of the main page there is the following message
warning: "If you are not of legal age you must leave this site".

3.- The <<Contact>> section, located at the bottom of the main page,
***URL.2, the following email address is offered: ***EMAIL.1, or
contact the person in charge of the web.

4.- The section <<Work with us>>, located at the bottom of the page
main, ***URL.3, the following information is offered: “If you are interested in counting in order to
month with an extra salary working from home as a web updater do not hesitate
in sending us an email to ***EMAIL.1 and we will expand all the details or doubts that
have about it”.

b).- About the Privacy Policy:

1.- If you access the <<Privacy Policy>>, through the existing link in the
bottom of the main page, the web redirects the user to a new page:
***URL.4, where the following is reported:

“(…) PRIVACY POLICY: In compliance with the Organic Law for the
Protection of Personal Data (LOPD), we inform you that the data you provide us
through the different forms of this website will become part of
computerized files owned by bingoporno.com with the exclusive purpose for which
Has been requested. For example, in the case of the contact form to respond to
your queries. The answer to the questions marked with an * (asterisk) are
mandatory, the rest are voluntary. refusal to answer questions
formulated will result in the impossibility on our part of putting ourselves
contact you or formalize our business relationship for the provision of services
different services. We guarantee in any case the possibility of exercising your
right of access, rectification, cancellation and opposition of your data, notifying it to
bingoporno.com by sending an email in the contact section.

CONTACT: You can contact through this form. The owner of this
website is "Physical Person", the public exposure of my personal data in the
website must be protected by Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
Protection of Personal Data based on Article 1. Purpose. The
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/22

The purpose of this Organic Law is to guarantee and protect, with regard to the
treatment of personal data, public freedoms and rights
rights of natural persons, and especially their honor and privacy
personal and family. The webmaster of this website thus tries to avoid the use
authorized of your personal data by third parties under the Law of
data protection, and wishes to comply with the obligations of the LSSI.

The main purpose of the LSSI suggests a computerized data processing file
personal data at the level of the Network in Spain that the Organic Law of Protection of
data in Title IV, Chapter I defines as Public Ownership Files, since
that it is a computerized file of personal data at the network level that
It should also be controlled by the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
entity independent of the Administration. To comply with the requirements of the LSSI and
without the intention of hindering the application of said law, the webmaster of this website will send
the information of your personal data to any person or entity that has an interest
direct and lawful developing Art 4.1 of the Data Protection Law. The data from
personal character can only be collected for treatment, as well as subjecting them to
said treatment, when they are adequate, pertinent and not excessive in relation to
the scope and specific, explicit and legitimate purposes for which they have been
Obtained: To do this, you can request it after stating reasons in the e-mail:
***EMAIL.1”.

c).- About the Cookies Policy:

1.- When entering the web for the first time, without accepting cookies or performing any action
on the page, it has been verified that cookies are used that are not technical or
necessary, whose domains are the following:

- From the “Google Analytics” domain: _ga, _gid, _gat, but which are installed associated

to the domain of the person in charge of the web (***URL.1)
- From the domain “***DOMAIN.1”: c-tag; impressions
- From the domain “***DOMAIN.2”: c-tag __uvt

__uvt

2.- There is no type of banner that informs about cookies on the main page or
first layer of the web.

3.- There is no mechanism that makes it possible to reject cookies that are not
technical or necessary. There is also no cookie control panel that
enable the management of these, in a granular way or by groups.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/22

4.- If you choose to access the <<Cookies Policy>>, through the existing link
at the bottom of the main page, the web redirects the user to a new
page: ***URL.5, where information is provided on, what are cookies and what
types of cookies exist.

Regarding the cookies used on the web, it indicates the following:

“We put at your disposal a table that collects the cookies inserted both
by bingoporno and by third parties on the Website, with the purpose of
inform you clearly about them. Cookies will be deleted
automatically on the device they are installed on after the
time that they indicate for their expiration: PURPOSE: Measure and
analyze website traffic; COOKIES: Google Analytics; OWNERSHIP:
Google; EXPIRY: indefinite”.

Regarding consent, the following is indicated:

“The cookies used on the Website do not pose a risk to your
privacy since they do not process personal data. ***URL.1 uses the
cookies to improve the user's browsing experience and obtain
information about the use of the Website. By browsing the
Website you accept and consent that. store cookies on your computer or
electronic device with the previously mentioned purposes.

The Website is accessible without the need for you to accept cookies,
although its deactivation may hinder your navigation and make it impossible to
use of some of the functionalities of the Website”.

There is no mechanism that enables the rejection of all non-technical cookies
or the possibility of granularly managing cookies. For the management of
cookies the following information is provided:

“You can allow, consult, block or delete the cookies installed in
your computer or device by us or third parties by configuring the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/22

options in your browser. We put at your disposal the following links,
where you can get information on how to do it (…)”.

FIFTH: In accordance with the evidence available, the Inspection of
Data of this Spanish Agency for Data Protection considers that, what is indicated
above, does not comply with current regulations, so the opening of the
of this sanctioning procedure.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I.- Competition:

 

- About the "Privacy Policy":

It is competent to initiate and resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, by virtue of the powers that art 58.2
of the RGPD and arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD Law.

For its part, sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list,
respectively, the investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority
may provide for this purpose, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notify the
responsible or in charge of the treatment the presumed infractions of the present
Regulation” and in 2.i), that of: “imposing an administrative fine in accordance with
Article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph,
depending on the circumstances of each case.

- About the Cookies Policy:

It is competent to initiate and resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 43.1, second paragraph, of the Law, LSSI.

II.- On the non-existence of an acceptance box, which generates a record of the con-
feeling in the purchase form.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/22

It has been verified that the website can obtain personal data from
users of the same, at least their email, through the link
<<Contact>> located at the bottom of the main page, ***URL.2, where
offers the possibility of contacting the person in charge of the page, sending
an email to, ***EMAIL.1, with the subject to be discussed.

The person in charge of the website also has the possibility of obtaining data
users of the same, through the link: <<Work with
us>>, located at the bottom of the main page, ***URL.3 where
offers the possibility of working as a "web updater", after sending an email
email to, ***EMAIL.1, requesting information on work conditions.

 

In this sense, article 6 of the RGPD, establishes, on the legality of the treatment of
personal data, that the treatment of these will only be lawful if at least
one of the conditions indicated in the first section, among which is:
a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or several specific purposes (…)”.

But this consent must be given once obtained from the data controller.
to, the legally established information on the purposes to which the data will be used.
personal data, (article 13 of the RGPD), and must be given through a voluntary act,
affirmative and free Therefore, silence or inaction is not considered "having given a
implicit consent”, for the processing of personal data.

Before providing personal data and giving consent to their processing,
the person in charge must ask the interested party to read the privacy policy of the site
web, through a direct link to the "Privacy Policy" and accept it by means of
you an act of voluntary and free confirmation.

For all these reasons, the fact that the person responsible for the web page in question can
Obtain personal data from users without having previously obtained their
consent for the treatment of these may constitute an infringement of the
article 6.1 of the GDPR cited above.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/22

In this sense, article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, considers it very serious, for
prescription, “The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed,
by violating the provisions of its article 6.1 of the RGPD, it allows setting an initial sanction
of 5,000 euros, (five thousand euros), when carrying out an illicit treatment of the data
information obtained through emails received from users of
the Web.

Along with this and in accordance with article 58.2 of the RGPD, the corrective measure that
could be imposed on the owner of the web page would consist of ordering him to take the
measures necessary to adapt it to current regulations, with the inclusion in it
of a warning message to read the "Privacy Policy" and of a mechanism
that enables users to provide their consent for the treatment of their
personal data, in an affirmative and voluntary way, prior to sending your data
personal to the person in charge of the web.

II.- About the "Privacy Policy" of the website:

If you access the "Privacy Policy", through the link in the part
bottom of the main page, the web redirects the user to a new page: ***URL.4,
where the information provided does not match what should be provided
according to article 13 of the RGPD, since all of it is referred to and focused on the repealed
Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Character Data
Personnel (LOPD).

In accordance with the provisions of article 99 of the RGPD, the entry into force and
application of the new RGPD was: “twenty days after its publication in the Official Gazette
of the European Union (05/25/16)” and would be applicable as of May 25, 2018”. By

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/22

Therefore, as of 05/25/18, the LOPD was repealed, applying it compulsorily,
from that date, the current GDPR and from 12/07/18 the new LOPDGDD.

In application of the RGPD, its article 13, establishes the information that must be
provide the interested party at the time of obtaining their personal data. That is:

“1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide: a)
the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative; b) the contact details of the data protection officer, in his
case; c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the basis
legal treatment; d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1,
letter f), the legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party; e) the recipients or
the categories of recipients of personal data, if any; f) where appropriate, the
intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third country or
international organization and the existence or absence of an adequacy decision
of the Commission, or, in the case of the transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or
Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to adequate guarantees or
appropriate and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact that
have lent.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person in charge of the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent: a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or,
when this is not possible, the criteria used to determine this period; b) the
existence of the right to request access to data from the data controller
related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its
treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to the portability of the
data; c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal; d) the right to file a claim with
a control authority; e) if the communication of personal data is a requirement
legal or contractual, or a necessary requirement to enter into a contract, and if the
The interested party is obliged to provide personal data and is informed of the
possible consequences of not providing such data; f) the existence of decisions
you automate, including profiling, referred to in article 22,
paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information about the logic

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/22

applied, as well as the importance and expected consequences of said treatment
for the interested party”.

In accordance with the evidence obtained and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, the exposed facts could suppose the violation, on the part of the
entity that owns the web page in question, of article 13 of the RGPD.

Regarding this, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD, considers it very serious, for
of prescription, “the omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment
of your personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD”

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to be imposed in
the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction in accordance with the
following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

The duration of the infringement, taking into account that the regulations in force, this
is, the RGPD, is mandatory since 05/25/18, and that from that
Date the LOPD was repealed, by which the website is still governed
in question, (section a).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
regarding the infraction committed, by violating the provisions of article 13 of the
RGPD, makes it possible to set an initial penalty of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros).

On the other hand, and in accordance with article 58.2 of the RGPD, the corrective measure
that could be imposed on the person responsible for the website in question would consist of
order you to take the necessary measures to adapt the privacy policy to
what is stipulated in the current regulations, that is, the RGPD and the LOPDGDD.

III.- About the "Cookies Policy" of the website:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/22

a).- Regarding the installation of cookies in the terminal equipment prior to
consent:

Article 22.2 of the LSSI establishes that users must be provided with information
clear and complete information on the use of storage devices and
data recovery and, in particular, on the purposes of data processing.
This information must be provided in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR. So,
when the use of a cookie entails a treatment that enables the
identification of the user, those responsible for the treatment must ensure the
compliance with the requirements established by the regulations on the protection of
data.

However, it is necessary to point out that they are exempt from compliance with the
obligations established in article 22.2 of the LSSI those necessary cookies
for the intercommunication of the terminals and the network and those that provide a service
expressly requested by the user.

In this sense, the GT29, in its Opinion 4/201210, interpreted that among the cookies
excepted would be the user input Cookies” (those used to
filling in forms, or managing a shopping cart); cookies from
user authentication or identification (session); user security cookies
(those used to detect erroneous and repeated attempts to connect to a site
Web); media player session cookies; session cookies to balance
load; user interface customization cookies and some of
plugin (plug-in) to exchange social content. These cookies would remain
excluded from the scope of application of article 22.2 of the LSSI, and, therefore, it would not be
necessary to inform or obtain consent on its use.

On the contrary, it will be necessary to inform and obtain the prior consent of the user.
before the use of any other type of cookies, both first and
third party, session or persistent.

In the verification carried out on the web page in question, it was found that, when
entering its main page and without performing any type of action on it,
use unnecessary cookies without the prior consent of the user.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/22

b).- About the existing cookie information banner in the first layer
(Homepage):

The banner on cookies of the first layer must include information regarding the
identification of the editor responsible for the website, in the event that their identifying data
tives do not appear in other sections of the page or that their identity cannot be disclosed.
obvious attachment to the site itself. You must also include an ID
generic of the purposes of the cookies that will be used and if these are own or
also from third parties, without it being necessary to identify them in this first layer. Ade-
Furthermore, it should include generic information about the type of data to be collected
and used in the event that user profiles are created and must include informa-
tion and the way in which the user can accept, configure and reject the use of
cookies, with the warning, where appropriate, that if a certain action is carried out,
It will be understood that the user accepts the use of cookies.

Apart from the generic information about cookies, in this banner there must be an en-
clearly visible link directed to a second informative layer on the use of the
cookies. This same link can be used to take the user to the configuration panel.
guration of cookies, as long as the access to the configuration panel is direct, this
is, that the user does not have to navigate inside the second layer to locate it.

In the case at hand, it has been found that there is no type of banner
that informs about cookies on the main page or first layer of the web.

c).- Regarding consent to the use of unnecessary cookies:

For the use of non-excepted cookies, it will be necessary to obtain the consent
expressly stated by the user. This consent can be obtained by doing
click on, “accept” or inferring it from an unequivocal action performed by the user that
denotes that consent has unequivocally occurred. Therefore, the mere
user inactivity, scrolling or browsing the website, will not be considered
effects, a clear affirmative action in any circumstance and will not imply the
provision of consent itself. Similarly, access to the second
layer if the information is presented in layers, as well as the necessary navigation to
that the user manage their preferences in relation to cookies in the panel of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/22

control, nor is it considered an active behavior from which the
acceptance of cookies.

The existence of "Cookie Walls" is not allowed either, that is, windows
pop-ups that block the content and access to the web, forcing the user to
accept the use of cookies to be able to access the page and continue browsing.

If the option is to go to a second layer or cookie control panel, the link
it should take the user directly to that configuration panel. To facilitate se-
lesson, the panel can be implemented, in addition to a granular management system
of cookies, two more buttons, one to accept all cookies and another to reject-
all of them If the user saves his choice without having selected any cookie,
You will understand that you have rejected all cookies. Regarding this second possibility,
In no case are the pre-marked boxes in favor of accepting cookies admissible.

If for the configuration of cookies, the web refers to the browser configuration
installed in the terminal equipment, this option could be considered complementary
to obtain consent, but not as the only mechanism. Therefore, if the publisher
opts for this option, it must also offer, and in any case, a mechanism that
allows you to reject the use of cookies and/or do it in a granular way, on your own page.
web page

On the other hand, the withdrawal of the consent previously given by the user de-
It should be able to be done at any time. To this end, the publisher must offer a
mechanism that makes it possible to withdraw consent easily at any time.
unto This facility will be considered to exist, for example, when the user has access to
so simple and permanent to the cookie management or configuration system.

If the editor's cookie management or configuration system does not allow to avoid the
use of third-party cookies once accepted by the user, information will be provided
training on the tools provided by the browser and third parties, de-
being aware that, if the user accepts third-party cookies and later wishes to
delete them, you must do it from your own browser or the system enabled by the
third parties for it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/22

In the present case, it has been verified that there is no mechanism that
makes it possible to reject cookies that are not technical or necessary. neither exists
no control panel that would allow the management of cookies in a way
granular or by groups.

d).- On the information provided in the second layer (Policy of

Cookies):

More detailed information about cookies should be provided in the Cookies Policy.
characteristics of cookies, including information about, the definition and general function
cookie information (what are cookies); about the type of cookies used and
its purpose (what types of cookies are used on the website); the identification of
who uses the cookies, that is, if the information obtained by the cookies is treated
only by the publisher and/or also by third parties with identification of the latter; the period-
do of conservation of the cookies in the terminal equipment; and if it is the case, information
on data transfers to third countries and the elaboration of profiles that im-
Apply automated decision making.

In the case at hand, the information about cookies that is provided in the
second layer of the web, it has been detected that the identification of
the cookies that are used, if they are their own or from third parties, nor the time they are
will be active in the terminal equipment.

IV- Violation of the Cookies Policy:

The deficiencies detected in the "Cookies Policy" of the website in question,
could suppose by the entity JIMBO NETWORKS, S.L, the commission of the
infringement of article 22.2 of the LSSI, since it establishes that:

“Service providers may use storage devices and
recovery of data in terminal equipment of the recipients, provided that
they have given their consent after they have been provided
clear and complete information on its use, in particular, on the purposes of the
data processing, in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December, on the protection of personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/22

Where technically possible and effective, the recipient's consent to
Accepting the processing of the data may be facilitated through the use of the parameters
from the browser or other applications.

The foregoing will not prevent the possible storage or access of a technical nature to the sole
purpose of effecting the transmission of a communication over a communications network
electronic or, to the extent that is strictly necessary, for the provision of
a service of the information society expressly requested by the
addressee".

This Infraction is typified as "minor" in article 38.4 g), of the aforementioned Law, which
considers as such: “Use data storage and retrieval devices
when the information has not been provided or the consent of the
recipient of the service in the terms required by article 22.2.”, and may be
sanctioned with a fine of up to €30,000, in accordance with article 39 of the aforementioned
LSSI.

After the evidence obtained in the preliminary investigation phase, and without prejudice to
whatever results from the investigation, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to
impose in accordance with the following aggravating criteria, established by art. 40 of
the LSSI:

-

The existence of intentionality, an expression that must be interpreted as
equivalent to a degree of guilt according to the Judgment of the
National High Court of 11/12/07 relapse in Appeal no. 351/2006,
corresponding to the entity JIMBO NETWORKS, S.L the determination of a
system for obtaining informed consent that is appropriate to the mandate
of the LSSI.

In accordance with these criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose an initial sanction of
5,000 euros, (five thousand euros), for the infringement of article 22.2 of the LSSI, regarding
of the cookie policy made on the web page in question.

In accordance with article 58.2 of the RGPD, the corrective measure that could be imposed
to the entity responsible for the web page would consist of ordering it to take the
necessary measures on the web page of its ownership to adapt it to the regulations
is in force, including a mechanism that makes it impossible to use cookies that are not necessary.
necessary before the user gives his consent for it; including a mecha-
system that makes it possible to reject all cookies or do it in a granular way through

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/22

of a control panel and expand the information provided in the banner of the page
main and in the "Cookies Policy" adapting it to current regulations.

V-Initial total sanction:

In accordance with the criteria set out in the previous points, the total initial sanction to be
impose would be 15,000 euros (fifteen thousand euros): 5,000 euros (five thousand euros) for the
infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD; 5,000 euros (five thousand euros), for the infraction of the
article 13 of the RGPD and 5,000 euros (five thousand euros), for the infringement of article 22.2
of the LSSI.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

START: SANCTION PROCEDURE against the entity, JIMBO NETWORKS, S.L.
with CIF.: B66209784, owner of the website: ***URL.1, for the following
violations:

-

-

-

Violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD, due to the illicit use of data
personal obtained.
Violation of article 13 of the RGPD, when collecting personal data from the
users of the web pages of its ownership without having adapted it to the
current regulations on data protection.
Violation of article 22.2 of the LSSI, regarding irregularities
detected in the "Cookies Policy" of the website.

APPOINT: Ms. A.A.A. as Instructor, and Secretary, if applicable, Ms. B.B.B., indi-
stating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions
ed in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector (LRJSP).

INCORPORATE: to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the international claim
put by the claimant and their documentation, the documents obtained and generated
by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection during the investigation phase.
nes, all of them part of this administrative file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/22

WHAT: for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be:

-

-

-

5,000 euros (five thousand euros), for violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD, without
prejudice to what results from the investigation of this file.
5,000 euros (five thousand euros), for the infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, without
prejudice to what results from the investigation of this file.
5,000 euros (five thousand euros) for the infringement of article 22.2 of the LSSI, without
prejudice to what results from the investigation of this file.

NOTIFY: this agreement to initiate sanctioning proceedings to the entity,
JIMBO NETWORKS, S.L, granting a hearing period of ten business days to
to formulate the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
zo granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; what
will be accompanied by a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in the
present procedure, equivalent in this case to 3,000 euros. With the application of
this reduction, the sanction would be established at 12,000 euros, resolving the problem
ceding with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which supposes
There will be a reduction of 20% of the amount of this, equivalent in this case to 3,000
euros. With the application of this reduction, the penalty would be established at 12,000
euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/22

In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 9,000 euros (nine thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or waiver of any action or resource in the administrative process.
deal against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts indicated
above, you must make it effective by depositing it in account Nº ES00
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the item the reference number
ence of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause
of reduction of the amount to which it avails itself.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of Ins-
request to continue with the procedure in accordance with the amount entered.
gives.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the date of
page of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement. elapse-
do this period will produce its expiration and, consequently, the filing of actions;
in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPA-
CAP, against this act there is no administrative appeal.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/22

>>

SECOND: On February 24, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 9000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the provisions of article 43.1 of Law 34/2002, of July 11, of
services of the information society and electronic commerce (hereinafter
LSSI), the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), grants each authority of
control and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve this
procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

Finally, the fourth additional provision "Procedure in relation to the
competences attributed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency by other
laws" establishes that: "The provisions of Title VIII and its implementing regulations
will apply to the procedures that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data would have to be processed in the exercise of the powers attributed to it by
other laws."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

22/22

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00482/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to JIMBO NETWORKS, S.L..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

936-240122

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

