DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
The Patient and Client Council (PCC) in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) 
of the UK General Data Protection Regulation in respect of certain 
infringements of the UK GDPR.   

On 20 January 2021 a member of PCC staff sent an email to 15 members 
of a Gender Identity Liaison Panel it was in the process of establishing. 
The panel was made up of individuals from across Northern Ireland who 
each had lived experience of gender dysphoria.  

The email was sent to panel members in order to provide an update in 
respect of a delay in providing information; the body of the email did not 
contain any personal data. In error the recipient email addresses were 
carbon copied (CC) rather than blind carbon copied (BCC), thereby 
disclosing the email addresses of all panel members to each other. The 
incident was identified 03 February 2021 after one of the data subjects 
informed the Health and Social Care Board of the matter and complained. 

Of the 15 email addresses disclosed 2 did not contain data sufficient to 
identify an individual however of the remaining 13 addresses, 10 were 
addresses containing a first name and surname and 3 were addresses 
containing initials and surname. It is considered that the 13 email 
addresses contained sufficient information to identify the data subjects.  

Although the data contained in the email addresses was limited it is 
considered that the recipients of the email could reasonably infer that the 
other recipients also had experience of gender dysphoria given their 
inclusion as a recipient and therefore on the panel.  As gender dysphoria 
is a medical condition it is considered that the data would constitute 
special category data, as per Article 9 of the UK GDPR. 

Whilst the disclosure was limited to the 15 members of the panel, at the 
time of the disclosure it is understood that the panel had not yet 
convened and no evidence has been provided that the data subjects were 
already known to each other.  In view of the sensitivity of the data it is 
considered that this is unlikely to be information the data subjects would 
want shared with individuals unknown to them and therefore the incident 
had the potential to cause distress to the affected data subjects. 

1 

The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to PCC in respect of 
the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 5 (1)(f) which states the personal data shall be “processed 
in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and 
confidentiality’).” 
 

•  Article 32 (1) which states “Taking into account the state of the 

art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and 
purposes of processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and 
severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the 
controller and the processor shall implement appropriate technical 
and organisational measures to ensure a level of security 
appropriate to the risk…” 

 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
Article 5 (1)(f) 
 
Based on the findings of this investigation it is considered that the use of 
email and the BCC function was not a suitably secure method to 
communicate with the data subjects in this instance, given the sensitivity 
of the data, and that other more appropriate methods could have been 
used, such as sending individual emails to each data subject or 
purchasing a software package which ensured the secure sending of 
emails to recipients. 
 
Whilst PCC did specify in its “PCC Use of Electronic Email Policy” that 
sensitive or patient data should not be emailed to addresses other than 
those from a specified list unless encrypted, the email involved in this 
incident was not encrypted, suggesting a potential lack of staff awareness 
of this requirement or a failure to implement this requirement in practice.   
 
 
 
 
 

 

2 

Article 32 (1) 
 
It is also considered that PCC failed to provide sufficient policies, 
procedures or guidance which detailed for staff requirements when 
sending emails using the BCC function. 
 
At the time of the incident whilst PCC had a number of policies in place, 
including its “PCC Use of Electronic Email Policy”, none of the policies 
contained any guidance in respect of the use of BCC.  It is also noted that 
the “PCC Use of Electronic Email Policy” in place at the time of the 
incident contained references to out of date legislation, i.e. the Data 
Protection Act 1998. 
 
PCC has provided no evidence of any documented guidance materials in 
place, and accessible to staff, at the time of the incident providing 
information about the expected use of BCC and CC other than one slide 
within its Information Governance elearning training module which was 
limited in scope. PCC has stated that additional training framed the 
functionality of BCC and CC however no evidence documenting that this 
was in place prior to the incident has been provided. 
 
Documented policies and guidance should have been in place at the time 
of the incident to ensure staff were sufficiently aware of what measures 
they should be implementing when communicating with individuals via 
email and BCC, particularly when involving special category data as in this 
instance. It is therefore considered that at the time of the incident there 
were insufficient documented policies or guidance which communicated 
PCC’s expectations in respect of the use of BCC and CC when sending 
emails and that this contributed to the incident occurring.   
 
Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that whilst the data 
disclosed was sensitive there is no evidence that the email addresses 
have been further used by any of the recipients.  
 
Remedial steps taken by PCC 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by PCC in the light of this incident. In particular, upon becoming 
aware of the disclosure PCC contacted all recipients swiftly, requesting 
they delete the email, that they not use the email addresses disclosed 
and asking for confirmation this had been completed, which was received; 

 

3 

staff have been refreshed on relevant information governance, data 
protection policies and protocols to be adhered to; staff have been 
reminded about the appropriate use of email and the function of BCC and 
CC; staff have been engaged in individual and team meetings in relation 
to their roles and responsibilities within data protection, information 
governance and codes of conduct 

 
 
PCC’s Staff Agency day training on 07 March 
2023 referenced BCC and PCC is undertaking a companywide review of 
policies with amendments to be made for which a timescale has not been 
provided. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to PCC in relation to the alleged infringements of Article 
5 (1)(f) and Article 32 (1) of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that PCC should take certain steps to 
ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular reference to Articles 
5 (1)(f) and Article 32 (1) of the UK GDPR, the following steps are 
recommended: 
 
1. 

In order to ensure compliance with Articles 5 (1)(f) and Article 32 (1) 
of the UK GDPR PCC should ensure that its policies, procedures and 
guidance are reviewed and updated so that appropriate guidance is 
provided to staff in respect of how and when to use the BCC function, 
in particular when sending emails to multiple recipients. 
 

2.  Take steps to communicate to staff the reviewed and updated 

policies, procedures and guidance in respect of BCC. 

 
3.  Consider undertaking an assessment, such as a Data Protection 

Impact Assessment (DPIA), to assess whether using email and the 
BCC function is a suitably appropriate communication method where 
special category data is included or can be inferred. 

 
 
PCC should provide a progress update on the above recommendations 
within three months of the date of this reprimand, ie by 11 October 2023. 

 

4 

