
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    06.08.2020
                                Corona freedom protection accompanying law for more social acceptance and legal certainty! The population's trust in the corona infection protection measures is crumbling. Among other things, the measures for contact recording of affected persons when visiting restaurants, hairdressers or playrooms have come under criticism. Not only is it possible to draw conclusions about the leisure time and consumer behavior of visitors and customers from the data collection, the lists have recently come under criticism due to isolated access by the police authorities. The population's trust in the corona infection protection measures is crumbling. Among other things, the measures for contact recording of affected persons when visiting restaurants, hairdressers or playrooms have come under criticism. Not only is it possible to draw conclusions about the leisure time and consumer behavior of visitors and customers from the data collection, the lists have recently come under criticism due to isolated access by the police authorities. Prof. Dr. Kugelmann, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, warns: "Anyone who is sitting in the beer garden must not be questioned by the police later because of their entry in a Corona guest list when it comes to clarifying an administrative offence, minor damage to property or illegal parking nearby. It is undisputed that access to the contact details can be useful for the performance of the police authorities' tasks. However, these measures are only proportionate if the citizens' right to informational self-determination is only encroached on because of serious crimes that have already occurred "But not only the police authorities make use of the data. Cases were also reported to the state data protection officer in which the data was misused by the restaurant operators: A 16-year-old was, for example, contacted by mobile phone by a restaurant employee. "Such cases of abuse torpedo the confidence of the population in the fundamentally sensible and necessary measure. This affects not least the measure itself, because it is to be feared that the persons concerned will no longer provide truthful information," warns Kugelmann. This would run counter to the actual goal of the guest lists, which is to be able to trace the corona infection chain in the event of an infection and to be able to protect other people.Kugelmann, in agreement with other data protectionists, demands: "A legal regulation would be expedient that access by law enforcement authorities is the exception to the rule. The freedom-preserving framework conditions for data-intensive infection protection measures should be defined nationwide by means of a Corona Freedom Protection Accompanying Act. These include earmarking regulations, bans on use and special rules for criminal prosecution, which only apply in the event of serious criminal offenses and under the condition of procedural guarantees, such as judicial decisions can access the contact data that was collected for the purpose of infection protection. Legal certainty and protection of freedom are fundamental prerequisites for accepted and therefore successful infection protection."
                                return
                            



