

The Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, invites you to a free online workshop on Personal Data Protection and Harmonization with the GDPR in the Health Sector, which will be held on Thursday, November 19, at 9 am.
You can apply via the online form at the link:
https://www.hgk.hr/besplatna-online-radionica-zastita-osobnih-podataka-i-uskladivanje-s-opcom-uredbom-gdpr-om-u-zdravstvenom-sektori-najava no later than Tuesday, November 17 , at 1 p.m.
The workshop is intended exclusively for managers and executors of processing from the health sector, so its program is tailored to the specific needs and concerns faced by health professionals in their daily work regarding compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the legal framework for personal protection. data.
Workshop participants will have the opportunity to get acquainted with the legal framework in the field of personal data protection, and the focus of the workshop is on specifics in the field of personal data protection in the health sector, such as internal documents for GDPR compliance, technical and organizational measures. what needs to be done to protect personal data, disclosure, processing of personal data in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, transfer, disclosure of personal data to third parties (eg insurance companies), access to medical records in criminal cases and others.
At the same time, through concrete examples, certain ambiguities related to the protection of personal data that appear in the daily work of employees in the health sector will be clarified.
This workshop is one of the activities of the Personal Data Protection Agency within the implementation of the EU project ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs), with the aim of supporting micro, small and medium enterprises in aligning business processes with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. GDPR).
Participation in the workshop is free, and the number of participants is limited to 200. When you apply, you can ask a question in the application form in order to prepare the lecturers as well as possible to give answers. Once you have registered, you will receive access to the workshop in a timely manner.


