EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion
03/2022 on the Proposal
for a Regulation on the
European Health Data Space

Adopted on 12 July 2022

Adopted

1

TABLE OF CONTENTS

4

1
2
3

4.1
4.2

3.1
3.2
3.3

Background.....................................................................................................................................5
Scope of the Opinion ......................................................................................................................5
Assessment .....................................................................................................................................6
General remarks......................................................................................................................6
Interplay of the Proposal with EU data protection law ..........................................................7
Interplay of the Proposal with the DGA, the Data Act and the AI Act..................................10
General provisions (Chapter I) .....................................................................................................10
Article 1: Subject matter and scope of the Proposal ............................................................11
Article 2: Definitions .............................................................................................................12
Primary use of electronic health data (Chapter II).......................................................................14
Ehr systems and wellness applications (Chapter III) ....................................................................19
Secondary use of electronic health data (Chapter IV) .................................................................22
Additional actions (Chapter V) .....................................................................................................25
Storage of personal electronic health data in the EU and compliance of international data
8.1
transfers with Chapter V GDPR ........................................................................................................25
Procurement and Union funding ..........................................................................................28
8.2
8.3
National contact points of a third country or systems established at international level ...29
European governance and coordination (Chapter VI) .................................................................29
9
10 Delegation and Committee (Chapter VII).....................................................................................30
11 Miscellaneous (Chapter VIII) ........................................................................................................31

5
6
7
8

Adopted

2

Executive Summary
With this Joint Opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS aim to draw attention to a number of overarching concerns
on the Proposal on the European Health Data Space and urge the co-legislature to take decisive action.

The EDPB and the EDPS note that the Proposal aims at supporting individuals to take control of their own
health data, supporting the use of health data for better healthcare delivery, better research, innovation and
policy making, and enabling the EU to make full use of the potential offered by a safe and secure exchange,
use and reuse of health data. Indeed, ‘facilitating the use of electronic health data’, both for primary and
secondary use of electronic health data could significantly contribute to both public interests, as well as to
the interest of individual data subjects/patients.

Although the effort to strengthen the control and rights of data subjects over their personal health data is
welcomed, it should be highlighted that this Proposal mainly provides for some ‘add-ons’ to some of the
rights of  data  subjects  already  provided  for  in  the  GDPR.  In  fact,  the Proposal  may  even  weaken  the
protection of the rights to privacy and to data protection, especially considering the categories of personal
data and purposes that are related to the secondary use of data.

The EDPB and the EDPS note that the provisions in this Proposal will add yet another layer to the already
complex (multi-layered) collection of provisions (to be found both in the EU and Member States law) on the
processing  of  health  data  (in the  health  care  sector).  The  interplay  between  those  different  pieces  of
legislation needs to be (crystal) clear.

In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that it is important to clarify the relationship between the
provisions in this Proposal with the ones in the GDPR and Member State laws. The EDPB and the EDPS
acknowledge the intention and efforts to stay within the boundaries of the GDPR in this EHDS Proposal. This
can be recognised, for instance, when it creates, by means of Union law, legal grounds and/or exceptions for
the  processing  of  health  data  fitting  into  the  structure of the  GDPR  foreseen  in  Articles  6  and 9 GDPR.
However, as to the desired level of clarity of those provisions, much is still called for (by way of improvement
of provisions and further clarification), especially in regard to the interplay of the provisions with Member
State laws pursuant to Article 9(4) GDPR. Those concerns are reflected in the comments on both the Chapters
II and IV of the Proposal.

With regards to the scope of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend excluding from Article 33(1)(f)
of the Proposal respectively wellness applications and other digital applications, as well as wellness and
behaviour data relevant to health. Should these data be maintained, the processing for secondary use of
personal data deriving from wellness applications and other digital applications should be subject to prior
consent within the meaning of the GDPR. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that such processing may
fall within the scope of Directive 2002/58/EC (‘e-Privacy Directive’).

The EDPB and the EDPS also strongly recommend to not extend the scope of the GDPR exceptions regarding
the data subject’s rights to the Proposal and in particular in Article 38(2) of the Proposal. Such exemption
undermines the possibility for data subjects to exercise an effective control over their personal data rather
than strengthen it and thus appears to be at odds with the objective laid down in Article 1(2)(a) of the
Proposal.

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome that fact that the Proposal makes reference to GDPR rights (e.g. the right
of access free of charge, and the right to obtain a copy of the data). However, the EDPB and the EDPS note
that the description of the rights as provided in the Proposal is not consistent with the one of the GDPR. As
mentioned above, this may lead to legal uncertainty vis-a-vis the data subjects who may not be able to

Adopted

3

distinguish between the two types of rights. To this purpose, and in order to avoid complexities of practical
implementation,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  urge  the  co-legislator  to  ensure  legal  clarity  on  the  interplay
between the data subject’s rights introduced by the Proposal and the general provisions contained in the
GDPR on data subject’s rights.

The EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge the provisions in Chapter III that aim to improve the interoperability
of Electronic Health Records and to facilitate the connectivity of wellness-apps with such electronic health
records. However, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion that the latter should not be included in the
secondary use of health data under Chapter IV of the Proposal. First, because health data generated by
wellness applications and other digital health applications do not have the same data quality requirements
and  characteristics  of  those  generated  by  medical devices.  Moreover,  these  applications  generate  an
enormous amount of data and can be highly invasive since it relates to every step individuals takes in their
everyday lives. Even if health data could be indeed separated from other kinds of data, inferences such as
food practices and other habits could be easily made, revealing particularly sensitive information such as
religious orientation.

As to the purposes for secondary use of health data listed under Article 34(1) of the Proposal, the EDPB and
the  EDPS understand  that Articles 34(1)(f)  and  (g)  of  the  Proposal  possibly  encompass  any  form  of
'development  and  innovation  activities  for  products  or  services  contributing  to  public  health  or  social
security' or 'training, testing and evaluation of algorithms, including in medical devices, AI systems and digital
health applications, contributing to public health or social security’. The EDPB and the EDPS are of the view
that  the  Proposal should  further  delineate  these  purposes  and  circumscribe  when  there  is  a  sufficient
connection with public health and/or social security. This will be crucial to achieve a balance adequately
taking into account the objectives pursued by the Proposal and the protection of personal data of the data
subjects affected by the processing.

In addition, Article 34(1) of the Proposal contain several types of secondary use, which would fall under
different categories of grounds for exception foreseen in Article 9(2) GDPR. However, the EDPB and the EDPS
consider that this is not reflected in the criteria according to which the health data access bodies should
assess and decide on data applications (Article 45 of the Proposal) in order to issue a data access permit
(Article 46 of the Proposal). To this end, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that the criteria provided for in this
regard by Article 46 of the Proposal are restricted to the provisions and principles of this Proposal and lack
clarity as to the way such provisions relate to the principles and provisions of the GDPR, in particular to
Article 9(2) GDPR.

In relation to Chapter V, the EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge that the infrastructure for the exchange of
electronic health data foreseen in this EHDS-proposal in no way is aimed at (or could result in) establishing
a  central  EU-database  of  health  data  and  will  only  facilitate  the  exchange  of  such  health  data  from
decentralised databases. However, due to the large quantity of data that would be processed, their highly
sensitive nature, the risk of unlawful access and the necessity to fully ensure effective supervision over these
data, the EDPB and the EDPS call for adding to this Proposal a provision that would require storing the
personal electronic health data in the EU/EEA, without prejudice to further transfers in compliance with
Chapter V of the GDPR.

Finally, regarding  the governance model created by the Proposal, the tasks and competences of the new
public bodies need to be carefully tailored, particularly taking into account the tasks and competences of
national Supervision Authorities, the EDPB and the EDPS in the field of processing personal (health) data.
Overlap  of  competences  should  be  avoided  and  fields  of  and  requirements  for  cooperation  should  be
specified.

Adopted

4

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  and  the  European  Data  Protection
Supervisor
Having regard to Article 42(2) of the Regulation 2018/1725 of 23 October 2018 on the protection of
natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  by the  Union institutions,  bodies,
offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Regulation  (EC)  No
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC,

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,

HAVE ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING JOINT OPINION

1 BACKGROUND

1.

2.

3.

The Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Health
Data  Space  Act (“the  Proposal”)  will  help  to  attain  the  Commission’s  vision  for  EU’s  digital
transformation by 20301.

The European Data Protection Board (“EDPB”) and the European Data Protection Supervisor (“EDPS”)
note that, according to the Commission, the Proposal “supports individuals to take control of their own
health data, supports the use of health data for better healthcare delivery, better research, innovation
and policy making and enables the EU to make full use of the potential offered by a safe and secure
exchange, use and reuse of health data”2.

As  explained  in  the  Explanatory  Memorandum,  the  Proposal  is  in  line  with  the  EU’s  overarching
objectives. Such objectives include the creation of a stronger European Health Union, implementing
the  European  Pillar  of  Social  Rights,  improving  the  functioning of  the  internal  market,  promoting
synergies  with  the  EU  digital  internal  market  agenda  and  delivering  an  ambitious  research  and
innovation agenda. Furthermore, the Proposal will provide an important set of elements contributing
to the formation of the European Health Union, by encouraging innovation and research and dealing
better with future health crises.

2 SCOPE OF THE OPINION

4.

On 3 May 2022, the Commission published the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament
and of the Council on the European Health Data Space Act (“the Proposal”).

1 Explanatory Memorandum, p. 2.
2 https://ec.europa.eu/health/ehealth-digital-health-and-care/european-health-data-space_en

Adopted

5

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

On 4 May 2022, the Commission requested a Joint Opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS (“the Opinion”)
on the basis of Article 42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/17253 (“EUDPR”) on the Proposal.

The Proposal is of particular importance for the protection of individuals’ fundamental rights and
freedoms with regard to the processing of their personal data. The scope of the Opinion is limited to
the aspects of the Proposal related to and involving personal data, which constitute one of the main
pillars of the Proposal.

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome the explanatory memorandum of the Proposal, where it is stated
that “considering that a substantial amount of electronic data to be assessed in the EHDS are personal
health data relating to natural persons in the EU, the proposal is designed in full compliance not only
with the GDPR but also with Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 (EU Data Protection Regulation)”.

Along the same lines, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that it is necessary to ensure and uphold the
respect and the application of the EU acquis in the field of data protection. When personal data are
involved in the context of the Proposal, it is essential to clearly avoid in the legal text of the Proposal
any inconsistency and possible conflict with the General Data Protection Regulation4 (“GDPR”), the
ePrivacy Directive5 and the EUDPR. This not only for the sake of legal certainty, but also to avoid that
the Proposal has the effect of directly or indirectly jeopardising the fundamental rights to privacy and
protection of personal data, as established under Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of fundamental rights
of the European Union (the “Charter”) and Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
Union (“TFEU”).

Since  the  Proposal,  as  further  explained  in  the  Opinion,  raises  several  concerns  regarding  the
protection of fundamental rights to privacy and data protection of personal data, the aim of this
Opinion is not to provide an exhaustive list of all the issues, nor always to provide alternative proposals
of wording suggestions. Instead, this Opinion aims at addressing the main criticalities, with respect to
privacy and data protection, of the Proposal.

3 ASSESSMENT

10.

3.1 General remarks
The EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge the objective of the Proposal to expand the use of electronic
health data to deliver health care to the individual from whom those data were collected (“primary
use”)  and  to  improve  research,  innovation,  policy  making,  patient  safety,  personalised  medicine,
official statistics or regulatory activities (“secondary use”). The EDPB and the EDPS also acknowledge

3 Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and
agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No
1247/2002/EC, OJ, 21.11.2018, L.295, p. 39.
4 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC, OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1–88.
5 Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing
of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector, OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p.
37–47.

Adopted

6

the Proposal’s goal to improve the functioning of the internal market by laying down a uniform legal
framework for  the  development,  marketing  and  use  of  electronic  health  record  systems  (“EHR
systems”).

Nevertheless, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that the protection of personal data is an integral
element  of  the  trust  individuals  and  organisations  should  have  in  the  development  of  the  digital
economy6 and the access to equitable health care, in particular in the context of processing health
data within the EHDS framework.

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that the success of the EHDS will depend on a robust
legal  basis for  processing in  line with  EU  data  protection  law, the establishment  of  a  strong  data
governance mechanism and effective safeguards for the rights and interests of natural persons that
are fully compliant with the GDPR. Sufficient assurances of a lawful, responsible, ethical management
anchored in EU values, including respect for fundamental rights, should be provided. In this regard,
the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the EHDS should serve as an example of transparency, effective
accountability and proper balance between the interests of the individual data subjects and the shared
interest of society as a whole.

In the forthcoming chapters of the Opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS provide recommendations on how
to make the relevant provisions of the Proposal not only compliant with the EU data protection legal
framework, but also in line with the current interpretation of the applicable jurisprudence of the Court
of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”). Given the wide scope of the rights and obligations set out
in the Proposal with regard to the access, use and sharing of special categories of personal data as is
the case for health data, general references to the GDPR and the EUDPR may not suffice. In this regard,
the EDPB and the EDPS consider that there may be a risk of misinterpreting key provisions related to
data protection which, in turn, may lead to a lowering of the level of protection currently granted to
data  subjects  under  the existing  EU  data  protection  legal  framework  (GDPR, EUDPR  and  ePrivacy
Directive). Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS consider further specifications necessary, as will be
detailed in the remainder of this Opinion.

The EDPB and the EDPS positively note that the Proposal also aims at contributing to a mitigation of
the  current fragmentation  of  rules  applicable  to  the  processing  of  health  data  and  to  scientific
research. At the same time, the EDPB and the EDPS raise doubts about the full compatibility of some
of the provisions of Chapter II and IV of the Proposal (notably the access by health professionals to
restricted personal electronic health data, the systematic registration of the relevant health data by
health professionals or  the  handle  of  unexpected  findings  by  health  data  access bodies  towards
natural  persons)  with Member  State  law  in  the  e-health  sector,  in  the  absence  of  a  general  EU
legislative competence of harmonisation in this domain. In this regard, it should be recalled that under
Article 168 TFEU, Union action shall encourage cooperation between the Member States in the area
of public health and, if necessary, lend support to their action by complementing national policy while
respecting the responsibilities of the Member States for the definition of their health policy and for
the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care.
3.2 Interplay of the Proposal with EU data protection law
The EDPB  and  the  EDPS  welcome Recital  4  of  the  Proposal,  according  to  which  “[p]rocessing  of
personal  electronic  health  data  is  subject  to  the  provisions  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  of  the

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

6 DGA Joint Opinion.

Adopted

7

European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  and,  for  Union  institutions  and  bodies,  Regulation  (EU)
2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council. References to the provisions of Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 should be understood also as references to the corresponding provisions of Regulation
(EU) 2018/1725 for Union institutions and bodies, where relevant”.

16. Moreover, according to the Explanatory Memorandum, the Proposal is based on Articles 114 and 16
of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘TFEU’). In the light of the Proposal, while
Article 114 TFEU aims at improving the functioning of the internal market through measures for the
approximation of national rules, the Proposal aims at expanding the use of electronic health data while
strengthening the rights arising from Article 16 TFEU.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS, in line with the CJEU’s jurisprudence, highlight that Article 16
TFEU provides for an appropriate legal basis in cases where the protection of personal data is one of
the essential aims or components of the rules adopted by the EU legislator7. Moreover, the EDPB and
the EDPS recall that the application of Article 16 TFEU also entails the need to ensure independent
oversight for compliance with the requirements regarding the processing of personal data, as is also
required by Article 8 of the Charter8.

Indeed, with reference to the point made on independent oversight, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight
that, according to Recital 43 of the Proposal, supervisory authorities should be tasked with enforcing
the relevant provisions of the GDPR and EUDPR especially with regard to the processing of personal
data for secondary uses in the context Chapter IV of the Proposal. In this regard, the EDPB and the
EDPS recommend including a corresponding provision in the operative part of the text.

Concerning the recourse to Article 16 TFEU as (one of the two9) legal basis of the Proposal, the EDPB
and  the  EDPS acknowledge  that the aim of  the  Proposal is  to  specify  ‘additional  legally  binding
provisions  and  safeguards 10 ’  in  relation  to  the  protection  of  health  data. Such  provisions  are
‘additional’ to those of the GDPR. The Proposal provides for ‘specific requirements and standards’11
which are tailor-made for electronic health data processing and are intended to ‘bring to reality the
possibility offered by the GDPR for an EU law for several purposes’12.
As to the content of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS wish to put forward two general remarks.
Firstly, the Proposal contains predominantly rules on the processing of personal (health) data, be it
for primary or secondary use. Having regard to the impact of these provisions on the overall center of
gravity of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS agree that the content of the Proposal makes of Article
16 TFEU a necessary legal base. This is without prejudice to the comments in the present Opinion on
the interaction of several provisions of the Proposal with those of the GDPR, an interaction which
strongly calls for further clarifications and, sometimes, further reflection and reworking, as developed
later in this Opinion.

7 Opinion of 26 July 2017, PNR Canada, Opinion procedure 1/15, ECLI:EU:C:2017:592, paragraph 96.
8 AI Act JO.
9 The  EDPS  and  the  EDPB,  in  line  with  their  mandates,  will  not  deal  in  this  Opinion  with  the  matter  of  the
justification of recourse to a double legal base and will limit themselves to considerations relating to recourse
to Article 16 TFEU.
10 Explanatory Memorandum to the Proposal, p. 6.
11 Ibidem.
12 Ibidem.

Adopted

8

22.

23.

The EDPB and the EDPS also note that, according to Recital 37, this Proposal aims to provide Union
law making use of the exceptions in Articles 9(2)(g), (i) and (j) GDPR. The EDPB and the EDPS also note
that, for the secondary use of health data, the Proposal creates an obligation for data holders in the
sense of Article 6(1)(c) GDPR to disclose personal data to health data access bodies. At the same time,
the EDPB and the EDPS understand that the Proposal does not aim to create a legal basis for data
applicants in relation to Article 6 GDPR nor modify information requirements under the GDPR or the
ePrivacy Directive, or alter any rights set out therein.

Secondly, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the Proposal contains at least one explicit derogation from
a provision of the GDPR: Article 38(2) of the Proposal indeed exempts certain entities (the health data
access bodies) from applying the provisions of Article 14 GDPR concerning information to be provided
to data subjects. The EDPB and EDPS consider that such exemption undermines the possibility for data
subjects to exercise an effective control over their personal data rather than strengthen it and thus
appears to be at odds with the objective laid down in Article 1(2)(a) of the Proposal. Moreover the
EDPB and the EDPS question whether it is necessary and justified to introduce a restriction to the right
of information as further explained in Paragraphs 26, 34, 96 and 97 of this Opinion, also in the light of
Article 23 GDPR.

24. More generally, the EDPB and the EDPS caution against legislation laying down derogations from the
tasks and powers of data protection supervisory authorities and the generally applicable rules of the
GDPR in accordance with article 8 of the Charter. Such legislation inevitably affect, and ultimately has
the potential to undermine, over time, the centrality of the horizontal rules adopted under Article 16
TFEU. The independent supervisory authorities should be tasked with the oversight of the Proposal,
insofar as the processing of personal data is concerned.

25.

In any event, the EDPB and EDPS question whether a restriction to the right of information is necessary
and  justified  in  this  context.  Indeed, both Article  14(5)(b)  and  Article  14(5)(c) GDPR  exempts
controllers from complying with Article 14 GDPR in certain cases, namely where (1) the provision of
such  information  proves  impossible  or  would  involve  a  disproportionate  effort,  in  particular  for
processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or
statistical purposes, subject to the conditions and safeguards referred to in Article 89(1) or insofar as
the obligation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is likely to render impossible or seriously impair
the achievement of the objectives of that processing13; and (2) where the obtaining or disclosure of
personal data is expressly laid down by Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject
and which provides appropriate measures to protect the data subject's legitimate interest. Insofar as
the EHDS Proposal expressly provides for obtaining or disclosure of personal data, it should rather be
assessed whether this Proposal contains appropriate safeguards to protect data subjects’ legitimate
interests.

26.

Finally, the EDPB and the EDPS note that, although the Proposal also covers wellness applications and
other digital health applications, the ePrivacy Directive is not included in its Article 1(4). While the
EDPB and the EDPS question the inclusion of such applications within the scope of Chapter IV of the
Proposal, as will be explained in the next Chapter, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend including a
reference to the ePrivacy Directive, should these applications still be part of the Proposal.

13 In such cases the controller shall take appropriate measures to protect the data subject's rights and freedoms
and legitimate interests, including making the information publicly available.

Adopted

9

27. Moreover, Article 1(4) of the Proposal should also make reference to the EUDPR and the relevant
provisions  of  the  EUDPR  should  also  be  identified  explicitly  throughout  the  Proposal 14.  Explicit
references to the relevant EUDPR articles in the enacting terms of the Proposal appear more than
warranted,  first  because  the  Commission  will  act as  processor  for  electronic  health  data
communicated  through  ‘MyHealth@EU’  (Article  12(7)  of  the  Proposal),  secondly,  because  Union
institutions, bodies, offices and agencies may have regular access to electronic health data (Recital 41
of the Proposal) and, thirdly, since data held by EUIs may also be made available for secondary use
(Recital 46 of the Proposal).
3.3 Interplay of the Proposal with the DGA, the Data Act and the AI Act
The EDPB and the EDPS note that, in line with Article 1(4) of the Proposal, “[t]he Regulation shall be
without  prejudice  to  other  Union  legal  acts  regarding  access  to,  sharing  of  or  secondary  use  of
electronic health data, or requirements related to the processing of data in relation to electronic health
data,  in  particular  Regulations  (EU)  2016/679,  (EU)  2018/1725,  […]  [Data  Governance  Act
COM/2020/767 final] and […] [Data Act COM/2022/68 final].” Moreover, in line with Article 1(5) of
the Proposal, the “(...) Regulation shall be without prejudice to Regulations (EU) 2017/745 and […] [AI
Act COM/2021/206 final], as regards the security of medical devices and AI systems that interact with
EHR systems”.

28.

29. While welcoming  the  explicit  reference  to  the  Proposal  being  without  prejudice  to  the  Data
Governance Act (“DGA”), the Data Act and the Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) Act, the EDPB and the EDPS
consider that the specific interaction of the Proposal with the aforementioned initiatives part of the
digital package as well as the Medical Devices Regulation (MDR)15, should be better addressed. To
illustrate this point and only as an example, the Proposal introduces a definition of ‘data holder’ under
Article 2(2)(y) which might not be consistent with the definition of data holder in the DGA and the
Data Act. This might lead to legal uncertainty as to what entities would fall within such definition,
despite constituting a central aspect of the Proposal, given that it would - crucially - determine which
entities will be subject to the obligation of making electronic health data available for secondary use.

30.

The EDPB and the EDPS further note that the general objective of the Proposal is to ensure that natural
persons in the EU have increased control over their electronic health data which cannot be achieved
if the interplay between the relevant regulations is not clearly identified. Legal certainty is key not only
to ensure that the different stakeholders feel safe to act within the new framework, but also that the
rights  of  natural  persons  are guaranteed. Therefore,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  further
clarifying the interplay of the Proposal with the above-mentioned initiatives and legal instruments.

4 GENERAL PROVISIONS (CHAPTER I)

14 In accordance with Recital (4) of the Proposal, references to the provisions of GDPR should be understood also
as references to the corresponding provisions of the EUDPR. While the aim of Recital (4) is clear, the EDPB and
EDPS strongly recommend that the relevant provisions of the EUDPR be identified explicitly in the enacting terms
of the Proposal as such.
15 Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017 on medical devices,
amending Directive 2001/83/EC, Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 and Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 and repealing
Council Directives 90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC, 5.5.2017, L 117/1.

Adopted

10

31.

32.

33.

34.

4.1 Article 1: Subject matter and scope of the Proposal
The EDPB and the EDPS welcome that the Proposal aims, amongst others, at strengthening the rights
of natural persons in relation to the availability and control of their electronic health data.

The EDPB and the EDPS are aware that the COVID-19 pandemic has greatly accelerated the use of
medical devices, wellness applications or wearables amongst the general population. However, this
kind of technology generates an enormous amount of data, often special categories of personal data,
and can be highly invasive. More than tracking humans’ actions and decisions, it is now possible to
track humans’ bodies, minds and emotions at a level that even humans themselves might not be able
to do. These data can then be used to predict people’s actions and manipulate their behaviour, even
at a group level.

The EDPB and the EDPS note that, as laid down in Article 1(2)(a) of the Proposal, the first objective of
the Proposal is to strengthen the rights of natural persons in relation to the availability and control of
their electronic health data. At the same time, the EDPB and the EDPS also note that, unlike in the
primary use, for which the Proposal allows natural persons to restrict the access to their personal data,
the same option is not afforded with regard to secondary use of data. Moreover, under Article 38(2)
of the Proposal, “[h]ealth data access bodies shall not be obliged to provide the specific information
under Article 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 to each natural person concerning the use of their data
for  projects  subject to  a  data  permit (...)”. The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  underline  that  the  right  to
information and the right to object are inextricably linked. By restricting the right to information under
the GDPR, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the view that the Proposal may not achieve the objectives
laid down in Article 1(2)(a) of the Proposal. In fact, the envisaged approach appears to undermine the
rights  of  natural  persons  to  privacy  and  to  the  protection of  personal  data, especially  taking into
account the very broad definition of secondary use and the minimum categories of electronic data for
secondary use introduced by the Proposal, which is not only limited to scientific research but also
includes other purposes, such as innovation.

In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 1(3)(a) of the Proposal provides that the Proposal
applies to “(...) manufacturers and suppliers of EHR systems and wellness applications placed on the
market and put into service in the Union and the users of such products ”, while Article 33(1)(f) and (n)
of  the Proposal lists  among  the  minimum categories  of  electronic  data  for  secondary  use person
generated electronic health data, including medical devices, wellness applications or other digital
health applications, as well as wellness and behaviour data relevant to health (emphasis added).
First, there is an inconsistency between the scope of the Proposal and the categories of data listed
under  Article  33  (1)(f) of  the  Proposal:  the  former refers to manufacturers  and  suppliers  of  EHR
systems  and  wellness  applications only, while  the  latter  also includes medical  devices on  top  of
wellness applications and other digital health applications. The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS are  of  the
understanding that medical devices also fall within the scope of the Proposal. Thus, for the sake of
legal  clarity, the EDPB  and the EDPS  recommend  adding  manufacturers  and  suppliers  of medical
devices in Article 1(3)(a) of the Proposal.

35.

Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that health data generated by wellness applications
and other digital  health  applications  do  not  have the same  data  quality  requirements  and
characteristics of those generated by medical devices (the latter being subject to existing specific
standards and legislation). Moreover, it should be noted that digital health applications may possibly
gather personal data that go beyond health data: for instance, the collection of personal information

Adopted

11

36.

37.

38.

39.

regarding food practices and other habits may indirectly reveal particularly sensitive information such
as religious orientation.

Against this background, while the EDPB and the EDPS understand the possible need of including
medical devices within the scope of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend excluding from
Article  33(1)(f) and  (n) of  the  Proposal respectively wellness  applications  and  other  digital
applications, as  well  as    wellness  and  behaviour  data  relevant  to  health. Should  these  data  be
maintained, the processing for secondary use of personal data deriving from wellness applications and
other  digital  applications  should  be  subject  to  prior  consent  within  the  meaning  of  the  GDPR.
Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that such processing may fall within the scope of Directive
2002/58/EC (‘e-Privacy Directive’).

The EDPB and the EDPS note that, according to Article 2(2) of the Proposal, the definition of data
holder explicitly includes European Union Institutions (‘EUIs’). However, EUIs can be both a controller
of personal and health related data (and thus a data holder) as well as a data user of personal and
health related data16. This is explained in Recital 41 and Articles 34, 45 and 48 of the Proposal. As a
result, and for the sake of legal certainty, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend clarifying whether the
EUIs are included in the definition of data user as well. Lastly, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that, as
Union  institutions,  bodies,  offices  and  agencies  are  not  subject  to  national  jurisdictions,  specific
clarification should be made in relation to the penalties that can be imposed by health data access
bodies, as provided for in Article 43 of the Proposal.
4.2 Article 2: Definitions
The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that Article  2  of  the  Proposal  provides  relevant  definitions  for  the
understanding of the Regulation as a whole. However, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that several
of them are very broad and open to interpretation, which in turn may lead to legal uncertainty.

Firstly, Article 2(1)(1) of the Proposal states that the definitions in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 shall
apply. At the same time, the Proposal introduces new definitions and refers to specific concepts in
other regulations, such as the Data Act. For instance, the Proposal introduces a defintion of ‘data
recipient’ although such definitiondefinition is already provided in Article 4(9) of the GDPR. Since the
Proposal aims to complement certain GDPR provisions, for the sake of legal certainty, the EDPB and
the EDPS recommend explaining why additional definitions are necessary, or in the most extreme
case, by way of exception, identify those GDPR definitions that do not apply.

16 EU institutions, bodies and agencies process health related data mainly in the following contexts:

recruitment (pre-recruitment medical examination),

1.
2. occupational health (annual medical visit) / health and safety at work,
reimbursement of medical expenses (Joint Insurance Sickness Scheme),
3.
4.
sick leaves (medical certificates) and invalidity procedures, and
5. performance of a task vested in the EUI’s mission (e.g. European Centre for Disease Prevention and

Control and European Medicines Agency).

Processing  operations  involving  health  data  are  likely  to  present  specific  and  higher  risks  to  the  rights  and
freedoms of data subjects,  who are staff  members, temporary agents, contractual agents, national experts,
trainees of these bodies, candidates for the positions mentioned before and visitors of the EUIs. Those risks are
similar to the ones data subjects face when their health data is processed by controllers that are not EUIs.

Adopted

12

40.

Article 2(2)(a) of the Proposal defines ‘personal electronic health data’ as data concerning health and
genetic data as defined in the GDPR, as well as data referring to determinants of health, or data
processed in relation to the provision of healthcare services, processed in an electronic form. In this
regard, it is worth underlining that Recital 35  GDPR already includes ‘information collected in the
course of the provision of health care services’. In addition Recital 54 of the Proposal also refers to
‘determinants having an effect on that health status’, in particular in the context of the processing of
such data concerning health for reasons of public interest. To ensure as much alignment with the
GDPR as possible, the EDPB and EDPS recommend to amend the definition in Article 2(2)(a) of the
Proposal to simply refer to “data concerning health and genetic data as defined in Regulation (EU)
2016/679 that are processed in an electronic form”.

42.

41. On the other hand, Article 2(2)(b) of the Proposal defines ‘non-personal electronic health data’ as
data  concerning  health  and  genetic  data  in  electronic  format  that  falls  outside  the  definition  of
personal  data  provided  in  Article  4(1)  GDPR.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  once  again17
underline that the distinction between categories of personal and non-personal data is difficult to
apply in practice. Indeed, from a combination of non-personal data it is possible to infer or generate
personal data,  i.e.  data  relating  to  an  identified  or  identifiable  individual,  especially  when  non-
personal data are the result of the anonymisation of personal data and even more in the context of
processing of health data. Against this background, the EDPB and the EDPS take note of the risk of re-
identification set out in Recital 64 of the Proposal and recommend to make more explicit that in case
of mixed datasets (whereby personal and non-personal data are “inextricably linked”) the protections
of the GDPR and the Proposal concerning personal electronic health data shall be applicable.
Articles 2(2)(d) and 2(2)(e) of the Proposal define the ‘primary use of electronic health data’ and the
‘secondary use of electronic health data’ respectively. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that these
definitions may  give  rise  to  legal  uncertainty  and  inconsistency with  the  GDPR,  in  particular with
regard to the definition of secondary use of electronic health data.
In particular, the second part of
Article 2(2)(e) of the Proposal states that “[t]he data used may include personal electronic data initially
collected in the context of primary use, but also electronic data collected for the purpose of secondary
use.” The EDPB and the EDPS consider that, as the concept of ‘secondary use of personal data’ does
not appear in the GDPR, the second part of the definition of ‘secondary use of electronic health data’
deviates from the GDPR concept of ‘further processing of personal data’. In fact, the latter is to be
understood in relation to the purpose for which a particular controller originally collected the data,
irrespective of their qualitative aspects. As a result, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to correct
such definitions in the light of the GDPR, and in particular to clarify the link between the definition of
secondary use of electronic health data within the meaning of the Proposal and the concept of ‘further
use of personal data’ within the meaning of the GDPR, especially taking into account the special regime
already afforded by the GDPR to scientific research.
Article  2(2)(f)  of the  Proposal  defines ‘interoperability’  as  the “ability  of  organisations  as  well  as
software applications or devices from the same manufacturer or different manufacturers to interact
towards  mutually  beneficial  goals,  involving  the  exchange  of  information  and  knowledge  without
changing  the  content  of  the  data  between  these  organisations,  software  applications  or  devices,
through  the  processes  they  support”.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  such

43.

17 EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion on the DGA Act, para.58.

Adopted

13

44.

45.

definition may need additional clarification as to its interplay with alreadyalready-existing definitions
of interoperability in other legislation such as the DGA and the eIDAS Regulation.
Article 2(2)(y) of the Proposal defines a ‘data holder’ as “any natural or legal person, which is an entity
or a body in the health or care sector, or performing research in relation to these sectors, as well as
Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies who has the right or obligation, in accordance with this
Regulation, applicable Union law or national legislation implementing Union law, or in the case of non-
personal data, through control of the technical design of a product and related services, the ability to
make available, including to register, provide, restrict access or exchange certain data.” As already
underlined above in paragraph 29, this is a central definition, which however is so broad that does not
allow to clearly identify who would qualify as data holder1 and to understand what the interplay is
with the definition of data holder provided in the Data Act and the DGA. If this provision does not
clearly define who falls under this definition, then it may lead to legal uncertainty as to who has the
obligation to make data available for secondary use under Articles 33(1) and 44 of the Proposal, which
in turn, might undermine the rights to privacy and data protection of data subjects. Moreover, the
definition is inconsistent with Article 3(8) of the Proposal, which also refers to the social security
sector, currently not encompassed by the same definition provided by Article 2(2)(y) of the Proposal.
The EDPB and the EDPS are thus of the view that, for the sake of legal certainty, it is important to
clarify such concept.
Article 2(2)(z) of the Proposal defines the ‘data user’ as “a natural or legal person who has lawful
access to personalpersonalpersonal or non-personal electronic health data for secondary use”. In this
regard, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that its relationship with the definition of ‘data recipient’
under Article 2(2)(k) of the Proposal, as well as the definition of ‘recipient’ in the GDPR is unclear. Such
lack of clarity also applies to the interplay of this definition with the notion of ‘data user’ in the DGA.
In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS refer to the recommendation made in paragraph 37 of this Opinion
on the inclusion of EUIs in this definition. Finally, the EDPS and the EDPB believe that rather than
stating that a legal person has lawful access to personal electronic health data it would be more
appropriate referring to whether and under which conditions this access can be performed or not.

5 PRIMARY USE OF ELECTRONIC HEALTH DATA (CHAPTER II)

46.

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that,  with  regards  to the  primary  use  of  electronic  health  data,  as
provided  in  the  Proposal,  a  balance  has  to  be  achieved  between  the  facilitation  of  availability  of
electronic records, both at national, EU or international level, and the impact on the individuals’ rights
and freedoms in general as well as GDPR rights. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that, in order to
achieve  this  goal,  the  following  aspects  of  the  Proposal should be  taken  into  account  by  the  co-
legislator.

47.

To begin with, the EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 3 of the Proposal refers to rights of natural
persons in relation to primary use of their personal electronic health data18. The EDPB and the EDPS
hold major concerns regarding the interplay of such newly introduced rights with the ones provided

18 For instance as for the new data subject’s right to restrict access of health professionals to all or part of their
electronic health data established by Article 3(9) of the Proposal, it is not clear if the rules and specific safeguards
to be established by Member States law according to the same provisions shall respect the rules provided for by
Article 18 (2) e (3) of the GDPR concerning the right to restriction of data processing.

Adopted

14

48.

in Articles 15-22 GDPR. In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS are concerned regarding the overlap of
the rights envisaged in the Proposal with the ones provided for in the GDPR and the risk of legal
uncertainty that this may bring vis-a-vis the data subjects. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS, for the
sake of legal certainty, urge the co-legislature to clarify the relationship between these rights and to
ensure they do not (directly or indirectly) limit the scope of individuals’ rights under EU data protection
legislation.

Article 3 of the Proposal introduces the right of immediate access and the right to give access or
request the transmission of data to recipients of their choice, as well as the right to restrict access of
health professionals to all or part of their electronic health data and to obtain information on the
healthcare providers and health professionals that have accessed their electronic health data in the
context of healthcare. As stated in Recital 1 of the Proposal, “[t]he aim of this Regulation is to establish
the European Health Data Space (‘EHDS’) in order to improve access to and control by natural persons
over their personal electronic health data in the context of healthcare (primary use of electronic health
data) […]”. Recital 6 of the Proposal explains that the EHDS builds upon the GDPR rights of the data
subjects and further develops them while supporting a coherent application of those rights as applied
to electronic health data.

49. Within this context, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that, at the moment of drafting of this Opinion,
no  data  protection  impact  assessment 19 has  been conducted  on  the  Proposal. As a  result,  an
assessment on how the envisaged changes may the data subject’s rights and freedoms as well as the
accompanying risk have not taken place.

50.

51.

52.

Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS welcome that fact that the Proposal makes reference to GDPR
rights (e.g. the right of access free of charge, and the right to obtain a copy of the data)20. However,
the EDPB and the EDPS note that the description of the rights as provided in the Proposal is not
consistent with the one of the GDPR. As mentioned above, this may lead to legal uncertainty vis-a-vis
the data subjects who may not be able to distinguish between the two types of rights. To this purpose,
and in order to avoid complexities of practical implementation, the EDPB and the EDPS urge the co-
legislator to ensure legal clarity on the interplay between the data subject’s rights introduced by the
Proposal and the general provisions contained in the GDPR on data subject’s rights.

This is even more relevant to ensure that data subjects with limited ability to access and use digital
services are not forced to rely on third parties to exercise their fundamental rights and, consequently,
are not obliged to expose their privacy and personal data to other natural persons to be able to
request access to their data, as per Article 3(5)(b) of the Proposal.

The EDPB and the EDPS note that the representation of a data subject when exercising their data
protection rights must meet certain requirements of legal certainty. The concept of authorisation
introduced  by Article  3(5)  of  the  Proposal  about  general  proxy  services  of  access might  not  be

19 The Proposal is for this matter accompanied by a Commission Staff Working Document Impact Assessment
Report (doc.  8751/22 ADD 3, of 6 May 2022), which only has a general overview of three policy options on the
impact  on  fundamental  rights.  This  does  not constitute  a  DPIA  in  the  meaning  of  GDPR,  what  would  be
indispensable to have a thorough analysis of the risk assessment that a processing of special categories of data
in a very large scale would entail and provide for the necessary mitigating measures and safeguards.
20 See, for example, Articles 15 (1) and (3) GDPR, in what regards the existence of the right of access and the
right to obtain a copy of the data, and Article 12(5) GDPR that provides for the rights be exercised free of charge.

Adopted

15

sufficient to ensure that the data subjects was not coerced in any way to provide access to their data
on their behalf to other natural persons of their choice21.

53.

Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that such broad concept of authorisation without any
safeguards opens the door to a possible abusive use of the right of access to electronic health data.
Indeed, the requirement for a representative to be a natural person only does not necessarily prevent
the access to the data by private companies. Therefore, in order to prevent such possible abuse, the
EDPB and the EDPS recommend to establish additional safeguards accompanying such authorisation
mechanism.

54. With regards to the right to rectification provided in Article 3(7) of the Proposal, the EDPB and the
EDPS note that it is not clear from the Proposal who will be responsible for ensuring the rectification
of the data. This is problematic, taking into account that within this context there are multiple sources
and recipients of personal data, at national level, but also at EU and even at international level. The
EPDB  and  the  EDPS  highlight  that, according  to  the  GDPR,  such  obligation  falls  upon  the  data
controller.  However, since, in this context, there are  several controllers contributing with electronic
health data  to  be  made available, the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  call  the  co-legislators  to  clarify  in the
Proposal how compliance with the right to rectification will be ensured in practice.

55.

The EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 3(8) of the Proposal provides that natural persons shall have
the right to give access to or request a data holder from the health or social security sector to transmit
their electronic health data to a data recipient of their choice from the health or social security sector,
immediately, free of charge and without hindrance form the data holder or from manufacturers of the
systems used by that holder. In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that the data recipient
needs to be properly identified by the system, including demonstrating that the entity receiving the
data belongs to the health or social security sectors.

56. Moreover,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that,  in  line  with  the  self-determination  of  the  data
subject, when deciding to which data recipient his/her electronic health data will be made available
in accordance with Article 3(8) of the Proposal, the latter should ensure that the data subject could
also decide which data is to be transmitted, in the same line as what the Proposal envisages in Article
3(9) of the Proposal. In particular, the EPDB and the EDPS highlight that the Proposal should provide
for the possibility that only necessary data for the purpose at stake are transmitted, by requiring the
adoption of technical measures of privacy by design, in order to comply with the principle of data
minimisation.

57.

Lastly, the EDPB and the EDPS note that, while Article 3(8) of the Proposal introduces a new right of
the data subject to transmit their electronic health data to a data recipient of choice, it does not
establish a corresponding explicit obligation for the data holder to do so. Since Article 9(1) GDPR, in
principle, does not allow for the processing of personal data concerning health, as well as genetic data,
unless one of the exemptions of Article 9(2) GDPR applies, the EDPB and the EPDS recommend the co-
legislator to align Article 3(8) of the Proposal with Articles 6 GDPR and 9(2) GDPR as well as to clarify

21 It  should  be taken  into  account  that  in  some  Member States this  could  only  be  done  legally  via  notary,
regardless of whether the person gaining access is a legal guardian or not. It is important to recall that the reason
for the intervention of a notary has to do with the need to ensure a freely given indication of data subjects’
wishes.

Adopted

16

the interplay of this provision with the possible further conditions, including limitations, with regard
to the processing of health or genetic data that Member States may have maintained or introduced
under Article 9(4) GDPR.

58.

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome the provision of Article 3(10) of the Proposal, as this guarantees that
the data subjects have effective control over their personal data, enabling them to identify potential
unlawful access to their health data. Nevertheless, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that it is not clear
whether the right to obtain information is by means of an automatic notification procedure whenever
there is access to the data, or only possible upon request. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the
first option is the most adequate solution to empower the data subject. Therefore, the EDPB and the
EDPS recommend that this is something that should be taken into account the co-legislators and thus
be clarified accordingly.

59. With respect to Article 4(1) of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EPDS note that health professionals
shall a) have access to electronic health data of natural persons under their treatment, irrespective of
the Member State of affiliation and the Member States of treatment and b) ensure that the personal
electronic health data of the natural persons treated are updated with information related to the
health services provided. In this regard, since the EDPB and the EDPS note that access to personal
electronic health data may have been already addressed and regulated at national level, recommend
that the co-legislators clarify the relationship between this provision and the national laws which
already regulate this matter.

60.

61.

62.

First, concerning Article 4(1) of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that Article 9(1) GDPR,
in principle, does not allow for the processing of personal data concerning health as well as genetic
data, unless one of the exemptions of Article 9(2) GDPR apply. Therefore, the EDPB and the EPDS
recommend that Article 4(1) of the Proposal be aligned with Article 9 (2)(h) GDPR.

Second, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that this provision is not in line with the GDPR principles of
data minimisation and purpose limitation, since access is not granted only when necessary and on a
need-to-know basis. Therefore, and in order to provide adequate safeguards to the data subjects, the
EDPB and the EDPS recommend to introduce that this access shall take place on a need-to-know basis
only.

Third, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that the concept of “health professional” encompasses a great
variety of professions of distinct nature and requiring different kinds of involvement, decision-making
and responsibilities (e.g. doctors, nurses, lab and imagery technicians, nutritionists, physiotherapists,
psychologists, pharmaceutics). Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend that not all health data
be made available to all health professionals indiscriminately but only to those for which access is
deemed necessary in order to perform a specific task. Against this background, the EDPB and the EDPS
highlight the importance of the necessity and proportionality principles in this context. The EDPB and
the EDPS note that, according to Article 4(2) of the Proposal, the Member States shall, in line with the
principle of data minimisation, establish rules providing for categories of personal electronic health
data required by different health professions. The EDPB and the EDPS note that the Proposal shall
explicitly allocate this responsibility to the Member States, by making it mandatory. To this purpose,
the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to replace the word “may” with “shall” so that it is ensured that
such rules will be determined by the Member States.

63.

The EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 4(3) of the Proposal states that access to at least the priority
categories  of  electronic  data  referred  to  in  Article  5 of  the  Proposal is  made  available  to  health
professionals, without determining if all priority categories are accessed by all health professionals.

Adopted

17

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

As indicated above, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that access should only be granted having regard
to what is necessary for the purpose of the healthcare treatment. The EDPB and the EDPS consider
that the relationship among Articles 4(2) and 4(3) of the Proposal should be further clarified in the
Proposal.

Article 4(4) of the Proposal provides for the possibility to derogate from the restrictions of access
selected by the data subject, foreseen in Article 3(9) of the Proposal, in case the access is necessary to
protect the vital interest of the data subject or of another natural person. In this regard, the EDPB and
the  EDPS  recommend  the  co-legislators  to  specify  that  the  right  of  natural  persons  to  obtain
information on the access to their electronic health data by health professionals provided for in Article
3(10) include the accesses to the restricted information foreseen in Article 3(9) of the Proposal.

Article 7 of the Proposal requires Member States to ensure that health professionals “systematically”
register the relevant health data concerning the health services provided by them to natural persons,
in the electronic format in an EHR system. The EDPB and the EDPS are concerned about the reference
to such systematic  registration since  it  seems  not  to  be  in  line  with  the  GDPR  principle  of  data
minimisation. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS suggest amending the text of the Proposal by deleting
the term ‘systematically’ in order to align the provision with the principle of data minimisation.

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS welcome the  provisions on electronic  identity  management contained  in
Article 9 of the Proposal since they consider that the secure identification and authentication of for
natural persons and health professionals using electronic healthcare services or accessing personal
health data is one of the core elements to protect the rights of the concerned data subjects. In this
regard, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that it may be necessary to envisage different identification
and  authentication  mechanism  for  health  professionals  depending  whether  their  accesses  are
performed as professionals or in a private capacity.

As for the establishment of the Digital Health Authority, provided for in Article 10 of the Proposal, the
EDPB and the EDPS are concerned by the fact that some of their tasks may overlap with those of the
data protection supervisory authorities pursuant to the GDPR, especially regarding the data subject’s
rights and the security of the data processing.  For the sake of legal certainty and to improve the
readability of the legal text, the EDPB and the EDPS suggest to move the provision of Article 3(11) of
the Proposal, last sentence, to Article 10 of the Proposal.

In relation to Article 11 of the Proposal, which establishes the right for natural and legal persons to
lodge  a  complaint  to  the  digital  health  authority,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  merely
providing information on the existence of a complaint to data protection authorities is not sufficient
to enable them to assess and investigate and assess any aspects of the complaint related to data
protection.  Therefore, the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  to  clarify  that, if  the  complaint  has
somehow relation with data protection, even if the subject matter is related to the new rights of
natural persons introduced by Article 3 of the Proposal, the digital health authority shall send a copy
of the complaint to the relevant data protection supervisory authority.

69. More generally, the EDPB and the EDPS suggest introducing a mandatory consultation of and a duty
of cooperation with DPAs with regard to the assessment of complaints as well as the implementation
of the Proposal whenever data protection aspects are involved. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS
underline that the data protection authorities are the only competent authorities responsible for data
protection issues and therefore should remain the only point of contact for the data subject with
regard to those issues, also in order to avoid any confusion for data subjects as to the modalities in
which they can enforce their data protection rights.

Adopted

18

70.

71.

72.

73.

74.

Article 13 of the Proposal envisages the possibility that supplementary cross-border digital health
services are provided through MyHealth@EU and that the latter is able to exchange data with other
infrastructures  or  other  services  in  the  health,  care  or  social  security  fields.  The  same  provision
requires Member States and the Commission to ensure the interoperability of MyHealth@EU with
technological systems established at international level for the exchange of electronic health data.

The EDPB and the EDPS note that such possibilities are presented in broad terms and it is rather
unclear in which circumstances and under which conditions the electronic health data can be shared
with participants in third countries. In light of the safeguards required by Chapter V of the GDPR  for
international data transfers, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend the co-legislators to clarify that  the
compliance check to be performed by the Commission with regard to  the national contact point of
the third country or of the system established at an international level shall also cover the fulfilment
of the requirements of Chapter V of the GDPR, before establishing via an implementing act that such
national  contact  point  or  system is  compliant  with  the  requirements  of  MyHealth@EU  for  the
purposes of the electronic health data exchange.

6 EHR SYSTEMS AND WELLNESS APPLICATIONS (CHAPTER III)

Chapter III of the Proposal focuses on implementing a mandatory self-certification scheme for EHR
systems, where such systems must comply with the essential requirements related to interoperability
and security laid down in Annex II of the Proposal. As highlighted in the explanatory memorandum,
“this  approach  is  required  to  ensure  that  electronic  health  records  are  compatible  between  each
system and allow easy transmission of electronic health data between them”. The EDPB and the EDPS
welcome that, pursuant to Articles 15 and 17 of the Proposal, EHR systems must be subject to a prior
conformity assessment procedure before these can be placed on the market or otherwise put into
service in the EU.

However, the EDPB and the EDPS note that some of the essential requirements laid down in Annex II
of the Proposal refer to aspects related to the protection of personal data, such as those addressing
the implementation of the rights of natural persons, as set out in Chapter II of the Proposal, or the
secure processing of electronic health data22. Moreover, the common specifications to be adopted by
the Commission, by means of implementing acts, in respect of the essential requirements set out in
Annex II, pursuant to Article 23(3) of the Proposal, may cover elements concerning data protection,
such as requirements related to data quality including completeness and accuracy of electronic health
data as well as requirements and principles related to security, confidentiality, integrity, patient safety
and protection of electronic health data23.

Firstly,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  emphasize  that  compliance  of  EHR  systems  with  the  essential
requirements related to interoperability and security laid down in Annex II of the Proposal, does not
necessarily mean that the processing operations underlying their functioning are lawful per se, since
further requirements resulting from the EU data protection law may need to be complied with by the
controller. However, while the EDPB and the EDPS understand that the aforementioned essential

22 See for instance points 1.3 and the security requirements listed in point 3 of Annex II, such as points 3.1. on
the prevention of unauthorized access; 3.2. on identification and authentication mechanisms; 3.3. on access
control mechanisms; 3.4. on logging  mechanisms for data accesses and 3.5. on health professionals’ access
restriction mechanisms.
23 See Article 23(3) (c) and (e) of the Proposal as well as Article 10(2)(h) of the Proposal.

Adopted

19

requirements and common specifications are not directly linked with EU data protection law, some of
them may have a significant impact upon relevant aspects for the protection of personal data of the
concerned  data  subjects. In  this  regard,  the EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that the  aforementioned
requirements do not seem to duly take into account the principles of data minimization and data
protection by design as key aspects to take into consideration when designing an EHR system in order
to adequately safeguard the interest and rights of data subjects with regards to data protection and
privacy. Moreover, the requirements related to retention periods and access rights in point 3.8 of
Annex  II of the  Proposal do  not  take  into account the specific purpose  of  the  data  processing
operations, as a key element to consider to design the storage features of an EHR systems, alongside
“the origins and categories of electronic health data”.

Taking into consideration the risks posed by the provisions on the mandatory availability, cross-border
sharing, access and further uses of electronic health data contained in EHR systems and the impact on
the individuals concerned, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the view that, in order to strengthen the
protection of individuals  and  their confidence  in  these systems, it would  be  most  adequate  to
introduce a third-party conformity assessment procedure for EHR systems24, by involving notified
bodied in the assessment of the measures, including technical solutions, taken by the manufacturer
to comply with the interoperability and security requirements set out in Annex II of the Proposal. In
this  regard, the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  positively  note  that this  issue  shall  be  subject  to  a  specific
assessment in the context of the evaluation and review of the Proposal carried out by the Commission
after 5 years from its entry into force.

75.

76. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend amending the Proposal so as to clarify the relationship
between the mandatory self-certification scheme for EHR systems and data protection requirements.
In addition, it should be pointed out that, whenever the common specifications referred to in Article
23 of the Proposal have an impact on data protection requirements of EHR systems, the implementing
acts to be adopted by the Commission pursuant to Article 23 of the Proposal should be subject to a
consultation of both  the  EDPS  and EDPB  in accordance with Article 42(2) EUDPR.  The  same
considerations  apply  to  the  voluntary  labelling  of  wellness  application  which  equally  rely  on  the
essential requirements laid down in Annex II of the Proposal and the common specifications referred
to in Article 23 of the Proposal.

77. With regards to the handling of risks posed by EHR systems and of serious incidents, as well as the
implementation  of  corrective  actions,  under Article  29 of  the  Proposal, the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS
recommend  that a  duty  of  information  to  and  cooperation  with the  DPAs, where  relevant, be
established. Indeed, it is not clear if the reference to the risk to “other aspects of public interest
protection” among the risks that may be presented by an EHR system, thus entailing the intervention
of the market surveillance authority, may include the protection of personal data. In addition, it cannot
be  excluded  that a serious  incident involving  an  EHR  system 25 originates  from malfunctions or
deteriorations in the characteristics or performance of an EHR system, which also affect the protection
of personal data.

24 See  for  instance  the  third-party  conformity  assessment  procedure  provided  for  by  the  Regulation  (EU)
2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017 on medical devices, amending Directive
2001/83/EC, Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 and Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 and repealing Council Directives
90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC.
25 See the definition set out in Article 2(2)(q) of the Proposal.

Adopted

20

78.

79.

The EDPB and the EDPS in principle welcome Article 31 of the Proposal on the voluntary labelling of
wellness  applications,  since  this  can  ensure transparency  for  the  users  of  wellness  applications
regarding their key features, thereby supporting users in their choice of reliable wellness applications.
However, Articles 31 and 32 of the Proposal only address wellness applications’ interoperability with
EHR systems and establish a mechanism of voluntary compliance limited to the interoperability and
security requirements laid down in Annex II of the Proposal, with a view to ensuring that wellness
applications are able to transmit electronic health data to EHR systems.

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS emphasize that the label accompanying wellness applications
pursuant  to Article  31 of  the  Proposal  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  the  processing  operations
underlying the functioning of those application are lawful per se and can be deployed by the user as
such. Further requirements resulting from the EU data protection law will need to be complied with
by the controller. The EDPB and the EDPB recommend that this be clarified in the Proposal, even in a
recital. Recital  35  of  the  Proposal  states  that  “users  of  wellness  applications,  such  as  mobile
applications, should be informed about the capacity of such applications to be connected and to supply
data  to  EHR  systems  or  to  national  electronic  health  solutions,  in  cases  where  data  produced  by
wellness applications is useful for healthcare purposes”. However, the conditions under which such
wellness applications may  lawfully  be  connected  and supply personal data  to  EHR  systems (or  to
national electronic health solutions) under the data protection legislation are not specified in the
Proposal. What seems clear from the list of the minimum categories of electronic data for secondary
use, set out in in Article 33 of the Proposal, is that indirectly - once uploaded in an EHR system26 - or
directly - insofar as they are collected and/or processed by entities falling under the definition of data
holders pursuant to Article 2(2)(y) of the Proposal27 - personal data produced by wellness applications
falls under these categories and then are subject to  data holders’ obligation of making them available
for secondary use in accordance with the provisions of Chapter IV of the Proposal.

80. Mandatory availability of electronic heath data generated by medical devices, wellness applications
or other digital health applications for secondary use must be assessed against the rapid technological
developments in mobile and wearable technology and the increasing popularity of 'quantified self'
apps and devices, that allow people to register all kinds of aspects about their personality, mind, body,
behavioural  patterns  and whereabouts.  Clearly  these  types  of  data  processing  deserve  significant
attention, since it is not easy to recognize as the processing of health data by the concerned data
subjects. However, at the same time this brings real privacy risks, especially in the case where such
data are processed for additional purposes and/or combined with other data or transferred to third
parties. These types of data processing may create specific risks, including the risk of unequal or unfair
treatment  based  on  data  about  a  person's  assumed  or  actual  health  status  derived,  for  example
through profiling, of very intimate details concerning his/her private life, irrespective of whether these
conclusions concerning his/her health status are accurate or not. In fact, those risks may also be linked
to the reliability and accuracy of data generated by medical devices, wellness applications or other
digital health applications. Against this background, the EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge that Article
33(3) attempts at delimiting which data generated by medical devices, wellness applications or other
digital health applications shall be made available for secondary uses. However, the EDPB and the
EDPS underline that it is still unclear either what kind of data fall under this category or who would
assess its validity and quality once inserted by individuals in their own EHR pursuant to Articles 3(6)

26 See Article 3(6) and 33(1)(a) of the Proposal.
27 See Article 33(1)(f) and (n) of the Proposal.

Adopted

21

81.

82.

83.

84.

85.

and 33(1)(a) of the Proposal or made directly available by data holders pursuant to Article 33(1)(f) and
(n) of the Proposal.

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend excluding from the scope of Chapter IV of Proposal
wellness applications and other digital applications. Should these data be maintained in the scope of
Chapter IV, the EDPB and the EDPS stress that users have to remain free to decide if and which of their
personal data generated by wellness application and other digital applications - regardless of the fact
that they have been uploaded in their own EHRs - shall be shared with other recipients and further
processed for secondary uses. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to amend the Proposal
so as to ensure that data subjects are properly informed about their possible choices with regards to
the potential further uses of their electronic health data including those generated by wellness and
other digital applications. Secondly, the specific conditions for the further processing of such personal
data  must  be  clearly  determined  in  accordance  with  the  data  protection  legislation  and  suitable
mechanisms must be established to ensure that the will of the data subjects with regard to the further
processing  of  their  personal  health  data  generated  by  wellness  and  other  digital  applications  are
respected.

7 SECONDARY USE OF ELECTRONIC HEALTH DATA (CHAPTER IV)

The EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge that Chapter IV of the Proposal aims to facilitate the secondary
use of electronic health data and welcome the fact that such secondary use of electronic health data
may generate considerable benefits for the public good. However, the EDPB and the EPDS consider
that such further processing activities are not without risks for rights and freedoms of data subjects.

The EDPB and the EDPS take note that, in line with Recital 37 of the Proposal, the "(...) Regulation
provides the legal basis in accordance with Articles 9(2)(g), (h) and (j) of the Regulation (EU) 2016/679
for the secondary use of health data, establishing the safeguards for processing, in terms of lawful
purposes, trusted governance for providing access to health data (through health data access bodies)
and processing in a secure environment, as well as modalities for data processing, set out in the data
permit." Against this background, the same Recital provides that the data applicant will demonstrate
a legal basis pursuant to Article 6 GDPR, based on which a request for access to data could be made
in the light of the Proposal, while this not being necessarily reflected in the operative part of the
Proposal. On the other hand, the EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 34(1) of the Proposal provides
a list of purposes for which electronic health data can be processed for secondary use, which include,
but are not limited to, the purpose of scientific research related to health or care sectors.

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS put forward three main concerns.
First, the EDPB and the EDPS note a lack of proper delineation of the purposes listed under Article 34
(1) of the Proposal for which electronic health data may be further processed, and in particular express
concern with regards to Articles 34(1)(f) and (g) of the Proposal, which possibly encompass any form
of 'development and innovation activities for products or services contributing to public health or
social  security'  or  'training,  testing  and evaluation  of  algorithms,  including  in  medical  devices,  AI
systems and digital health applications, contributing to public health or social security’. The EDPB and
the EDPS strongly recommend for the Proposal to further delineate these purposes and circumscribe
when there is a sufficient connection with public health and/or social security, in order to achieve a
balance adequately taking into account the objectives pursued by the Proposal and the protection of
personal data of the data subjects affected by the processing.

Adopted

22

86.

87.

88.

89.

90.

Second, in the light of the observations made above and despite the wording contained in Recital 37
of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the Proposal requires further improvements to
ensure compliance with Article 9 GDPR.

Indeed, the purposes for which electronic health data may be processed for secondary use under
Article 34(1) of the Proposal contain several types of secondary use, which would fall under different
categories of grounds for exception foreseen in Article 9(2) GDPR. However, the EDPB and the EDPS
consider that this is not reflected in the criteria according to which the health data access bodies
should assess and decide on data applications (Article 45 of the Proposal) in order to issue a data
access permit (Article 46 of the Proposal). The EDPB and the EDPS, to this end, highlight that the
criteria provided for in this regard by Article 46 of the Proposal are restricted to the provisions and
principles of this Proposal and lack clarity as to the way in which such provisions relate to the principles
and provisions of the GDPR, and in particular to Article 9(2) GDPR.

In addition to what mentioned above, the EDPB and the EDPS seek for specific clarification on how
and in which cases Article 9(2)(j) GDPR would be applicable in cases of processing health data for
‘purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes’ (based
on Union law or MS law) and ‘appropriate safeguards’ as required under Article 89(1) GDPR.
Third, the EDPB and the EDPS consider how this exception, construed by means of Union law, to Article
9(2) GDPR, may be reconciled with Article 9(4) GDPR and the possibility for Member State law to
introduce  further  conditions,  including  limitations  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  genetic  data,
biometric data or data concerning health. In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the
Proposal could clarify how the exception to Article 9(1) GDPR, stemming from the Proposal but as yet
not being explicitly specified in any of the provisions of the Proposal, intend to reconcile with all
different national Member States’ laws.
As a result, the EDPB and the EDPS call for the Proposal to ensure full compatibility with Article 9(2)
GDPR and in particular with regards to its application to the purposes listed in Article 34(1)(f) and
(g) of the Proposal. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS also recommend to amend Article 46 of the
Proposal  accordingly, in  order  to  properly  integrate  and  reflect  the  differences  in  the goals  and
requirements for the secondary use of electronic health data.

91. With regard to the minimum categories of electronic health data for secondary use, the EDPB and
the EDPS note that, under Article 33(1) of the Proposal, a legal obligation is construed, according to
which data holders, by means of Union Law, shall make available specific categories of electronic
health data for secondary use. The EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 41(1) of the Proposal indicates
that this (new) legal obligation complements any other legal obligation (already) foreseen in other
Union law or national legislation implementing Union law. As indicated in Recital 37 of the Proposal,
the EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 33(1) of the Proposal would serve as legal ground under
Article 6(1)(c) GDPR and would also provide for an exception to the prohibition in Article 9(1) GDPR
for the data holder to process (thus make available and provide) personal electronic health data. In
this regard, while the EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge that such legal obligation for data holders – in
principle - fits into the system of the GDPR, may result in legal uncertainty.

92.

In this regard, Article 33(5) of the Proposal provides that “[w]here the consent of the natural person is
required  by  national  law, health  data  access  bodies shall  rely  on  the  obligations  laid  down  in  this
Chapter to provide access to electronic health data”. The EDPB and the EDPS firstly consider that the
type of ‘consent-requirements’ in national law the provision refers to are unclear. In particular, the
EDPB and the EDPS underline the lack of clarity as to what step in the procedure foreseen in the

Adopted

23

93.

94.

95.

96.

Proposal with regards to secondary use of electronic health data may the health data access bodies
disregard such requirements set out in national law, in particular when falling under Article 9(4)
GDPR. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS  recommend further clarification and specification in relation
to Article 46(6)(f) of the Proposal, which provides for health data access body to possibly introduce
‘specific conditions in the data permit granted’.
Article 36 of the Proposal provides for the establishment of health data access bodies. In this regard,
the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that the responsibility of the health data access body to assess the
legal ground proposed by the data user will require availability of proper legal expertise in the health
data access body. The EDPB and the EDPS note that, as yet, this is not explicitly stated in Article 36 of
the Proposal. However, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that the assessment of the legal basis by the
health data access body may – always – be scrutinized and - when necessary - overturned by the
relevant DPA. To this end, the EDPB and the EDPS call for specific clarity as to the interplay between
the role of the health data access body and the respective DPA in the context of any data protection
related issue.

The need to clarify the relationship between the Proposal and Member States legislation is further
exemplified in the context of applications for data permits in the context of cross-border access to
personal electronic health data for secondary use (section 4, Articles 52-54 of the Proposal). The
EDPB and the EDPS note that, while the Proposal aims to facilitate of cross-border secondary use, by
establishing  ‘national contact points’ and a cross-border infrastructure (HealthData@EU), data users
will possibly still need to apply to the respective health data access bodies in each of the Member
States. Indeed, the EDPB and the EDPS understand that Article 45(3) of the Proposal only provides for
limited coordination between the health data access bodies involved, in order to obtain a data permit.
However, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the Proposal does not offer adequate clarification as
to the specific national law that will be applied in the context of cross-border data permits (the one of
the respective health data access body or the one of the data applicant), including the legal basis that
will need to identified (by the data applicant) and assessed (by the health data access body). Lastly, in
this regard, it should also be noted that both on the part of the health data access body and on the
part of the data user there may be (significant) gaps in expertise to overcome problems in identifying
and  appreciating  differences  in  (requirements  to  be  met  as  laid  down  in)  Member State’s laws
pertaining to (such) a legal basis.

The EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 38(2) of the Proposal provides that health data access bodies
shall not be obliged to provide the specific information under Article 14 GDPR to each natural person
concerning the use of their data for projects subject to a data permit. In this regard, the EDPB and the
EDPS  consider  that  the  exemption  introduced  may  lead  to  unintended  consequences  for  the
fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects, due to the lack of concrete conditions under which
such an exemption would be applicable.

Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS recall the importance of transparency obligations towards data
subjects and urge the co-legislator to identify specific situations to ensure that such provision may not
be  systematically  relied  upon  by  health  data  access  bodies.  Therefore,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS
recommend to modify the provision accordingly taking into account that the requirements set out in
Article 14 GDPR may not be systematically overruled without adequate and relevant assessment and
justification  as  to  the  need  to  rely  on  such  exemption 28. Should  the restriction  of  the  right  to

28 See also paragraph 25 above.

Adopted

24

97.

98.

99.

information be maintained, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight to the co-legislators the need to consider
the conditions provided for in Article 23 GDPR.

Article 40 of the Proposal defines and provides for the data altruism in the context of health. In this
regard,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  the  provision  unclear,  particularly  with  regards  to  the
interplay with the respective provision introduced by the DGA. To this end, the EDPB and the EDPS
recommend to clarify the provision accordingly.

The EDPB and the EDPS positively note the provision of Article 44(3) of the Proposal, which states that
where health data access bodies have to provide access to data in pseudonymised format, the data
users  shall  not  re-identify the  electronic  health  data  provided  in  such  format (the  information  to
reverse pseudonymisation shall only be available to the health data access bodies). Moreover, the
EDPB and the EDPS  welcome the fact that the same provision of the Proposal states that in case of
failure on behalf of the data user to respect the health data access body’s measures used to ensure
pseudonymisation, the former shall be subject to appropriate safeguards.

Lastly, Article 48 of the Proposal provides that, by derogation from Article 46 of the Proposal, a data
permit shall not be required to access the electronic health data under the same Article by public
sector bodies and Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. The EDPB and the EDPS consider
that a permit should also be required, in order to enable verification that all relevant requirements,
including lawfulness and necessity, have been complied with. Moreover, the EDPB and EDPS consider
such a requirement important to promote transparency, as the Proposal envisages that health data
access bodies shall shall provide general public information on all the data permits issued pursuant
to Article 46.

8 ADDITIONAL ACTIONS (CHAPTER V)

8.1 Storage  of  personal  electronic  health  data  in  the  EU  and  compliance  of

international data transfers with Chapter V GDPR

100. Chapter V of the Proposal aims to put forward other measures to promote capacity building by the
Member States to accompany the development of the EHDS. In addition, this Chapter regulates the
international access and transfer non-personal electronic (health) data, as well as well international
access and transfer of personal electronic health data.

101. As  regards  international  access  and  transfer  of personal electronic health  data,  Article  63  of  the
Proposal  specifies  that  Member  States  ‘may  maintain  or  introduce  further  conditions,  including
limitations,  in  accordance  with  and  under  the  conditions  of  Article  9(4)  of the  Regulation  (EU)
2016/679’.

102. First, the EDPB and the EDPS would like to recall that, in its judgment in Digital Rights Ireland, the CJEU
considered that the absence of a requirement to retain the data within the EU meant that “[...] it
cannot be held that the control, explicitly required by Article 8(3) of the Charter, by an independent
authority of compliance with the requirements of protection and security [...] is fully ensured. Such a
control, carried out on the basis of EU law, is an essential component of the protection of individuals

Adopted

25

with regard to the processing of personal data”29. In other words, the CJEU explicitly held, in the case
at  hand,  that  control  of  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  protection  and  security  by  an
independent supervisory authority cannot be fully ensured in the absence of a requirement to retain
the data in question within the EU. The failure to require data to be retained in the EU was among the
considerations which led the CJEU to conclude that the EU legislature had exceeded the limits imposed
by  compliance  with  the  principle  of  proportionality  in  the  light  of  Articles 7,  8  and  52(1)  of  the
Charter30.

103. The need to impose a requirement to store personal data in the EU in certain specific cases was then
confirmed and complemented in the Tele 2 judgment in which the CJEU considered that 'Given the
quantity of retained data, the sensitivity of that data and the risk of unlawful access to it, the providers
of electronic communications services must, in order to ensure the full integrity and confidentiality of
that  data,  guarantee  a  particularly  high  level  of  protection  and  security  by  means  of  appropriate
technical and organisational measures. In particular, the national legislation must make provision for
the data to be retained within the European Union and for the irreversible destruction of the data at
the end of the data retention period' (emphasis added)31. Again, the CJEU underlined that in order to
guarantee  the  necessary  level  of  security  and  protection  of  the  data  in  question, the  relevant
legislation must require data to be retained in the EU.

104. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the findings made by the Court in these two landmark judgments
are also relevant in the context of the Proposal, as it will apply to (i) the processing of a large quantity
of personal data, (ii) that are of a highly sensitive nature and (iii) for which there is no objective
element to conclude that the risk of unlawful access is inferior than that identified in the context of
the judgments referred to above.32 In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS stress that the finding of the
Court is all the more likely to apply to the data at hand considering that health data is likely to be
considered as even more sensitive than telecommunications data (i.e. the data at hand in the two
judgments referred to above).

105.

In this context, the EDPB and the EDPS share the concerns of the Court regarding the need to mitigate
the risks of unlawful access and ineffective supervision when it comes to certain types of data and
certain types of processing operations. In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS note that in case the

the same case at para 78 and 79, noting that the absence provision that lays down the requirement to ‘store the
data to be retained in the territory of a Member State, under the jurisdiction of a Member State’, ‘increases the
risk of use which is incompatible with the requirements resulting from the right to privacy’ and ‘considerably
increases the risk that such data may be accessible or disclosed in infringement of that legislation’.

29 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber), 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland Ltd, joined Cases C‑293/12 and
C‑594/12; para 68. See also the Opinion of Advocate General Cruz Villalón delivered on 12 December 2013 in
30 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber), 8 April 2014, Digital Rights Ireland Ltd, joined Cases C‑293/12 and
C‑594/12; para 69.

31 Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 21 December 2016, Tele2 Sverige AB v Post- och telestyrelsen and
Secretary of State for the Home Department v Tom Watson and Others, joined Cases C-203/15 and C-698/15,
para 122. See also the opinion of Advocate General Saugmandsgaard Øe delivered on 19 July 2016, Tele2 Sverige
AB v Post- och telestyrelsen and Secretary of State for the Home Department v Tom Watson and Others, joined
Cases C-203/15 and C-698/15, para 239 to 241.
32 The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that  this  risk  of  unlawful  access is  such  that  it has actually conducted  the
Commission to dedicate a specific provision on the matter for what concerns non-personal data (Article 62 of
the Proposal).

Adopted

26

processing infrastructure is located in non-EU/EEA Member States, EU data protection supervisory
authority’s control over compliance with EU data protection rules might not always be fully ensured.

106.

In  addition,  the EDPB  and  the  EPDS  note  that  the  Commission  recently  proposed  data  storage
requirements  in  another  context:  Article  17(1)(c)  of  the  recent  Proposal  for  a  Regulation  of  the
European Parliament and of the Council on information security in the institutions, bodies, offices and
agencies of the Union indeed provides that ‘sensitive non-classified information should be stored and
processed in the EU’33. More generally, the EDPB and the EDPS note that EU law already provides
several examples of pieces of existing legislation imposing to store personal data in the EU and that
usually go even further by also restricting transfers34. The EDPB and the EDPS therefore conclude that
EU law requires, in certain specific situations, to impose that the data be stored in the EU in order to
mitigate the risk of unlawful access and to ensure effective supervision.

107. Second, the EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 62 of the Proposal, on international access and
transfers of non-personal electronic heath data, refers in several instances to non-personal electronic
health data ‘held in the EU’, which would seem to indicate a general assumption that this category of
data would have to be stored in the EU. The EDPS and EDPB consider that the same approach should
be adopted for personal data falling within the scope of the Proposal, as it would seem difficult to
justify having a requirement to store non-personal electronic health data in the EU but not having the
same requirement for personal electronic health data.

108. Third, The EDPB and the EDPS wish to clarify in this context that an obligation to store personal data
in  the  EU  does  not  preclude  transfers  of  personal  electronic  health  data  to  third  countries  or
international organisations. Indeed, it is possible to reconcile a general requirement to store personal
data in the EU with specific transfers being allowed compliance with Chapter V GDPR (e.g. in the
context of scientific research, disbursement of care, international cooperation). Consequently, the
EDPB and EDPS consider that the obligation to store the data in the EU would be proportionate and
would not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objective pursued, which is to lay down an
additional safeguard with the view to mitigate the risk of unlawful access and ineffective supervision
over the data concerned, given its highly sensitive nature.

33 Proposal  for  a  Regulation  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  information  security  in  the
institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the Union
COM/2022/119 final; https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX:52022PC0119
34 See e.g. Article 6(8) of Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016
on the use of passenger name record (PNR) data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of
terrorist offences and serious crime: ‘The storage, processing and analysis of PNR data by the PIU shall be carried
out exclusively within a secure location or locations within the territory of the Member States’; Article 3 of
Regulation (EC) No 767/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 concerning the Visa
Information System (VIS) and the exchange of data between Member States on short-stay visas (VIS Regulation);
Article 41 of Regulation (EU) 2017/2226 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2017
establishing an Entry/Exit System (EES) to register entry and exit data and refusal of entry data of third-country
nationals crossing the external borders of the Member States and determining the conditions for access to the
EES for law enforcement purposes, and amending the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement and
Regulations  (EC)  No  767/2008  and  (EU)  No  1077/2011;  Article  39  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1987/2006 of  the
European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on the establishment, operation and use of the
second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II).

Adopted

27

109. Fourth, the EDPB and the EDPS also note that Article 63 of the Proposal provides that Member States
may maintain or introduce further conditions, including limitations, in accordance with and under the
conditions of Article 9(4) GDPR. Such limitations imposed at a national level may include an obligation
to store data in the EU. The EDPB and the EDPS draw attention to the fact that such an obligation
already applies in several Member States and consider it likely that several Member States would
impose or continue to impose similar obligations if the matter is not harmonised at EU level.

110.

In view of the above, the EDPB and the EDPS therefore consider it essential to avoid an inconsistent
and fragmented approach throughout the EU that would lead to different degrees of protection of
data subjects, which would be at odds with one of the key objectives of the GDPR.35 Therefore, the
EDPB and the EDPS consider that additional obligations including storage of personal electronic health
data within the EU should be as far as possible addressed at EU level i.e. in the Proposal, in order to
ensure a uniform high level of protection for data subjects across the EU, as well as to preserve the
proper functioning of the internal market, in line with Article 114 TFEU on which the Proposal is based.

111. For all the above reasons and having due regard to the highly sensitive nature of the personal data at
hand, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that Article 63 of the Proposal should impose on controllers
and processors established in the EU processing personal electronic health data within the scope of
the Proposal an obligation to store this data in the EU. As explained above, such a requirement to
store personal electronic health data in the EU should be without prejudice to the possibility to
transfer personal electronic health data in compliance with Chapter V GDPR.36 The EDPB and the
EDPS also recommend to recall in the preamble that controllers and processors processing personal
electronic health data remain subject to Article 48 GDPR on transfers or disclosures not authorised by
EU  law  and  should  comply  with  this  provision  in  case  of  access  request  stemming  from  a  third
country37.
8.2 Procurement and Union funding

112. The EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 60 of the Proposal addresses the question of additional
requirements for public procurement and Union funding. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the
above recommendations (on data storage in the EU and compliance with  Chapter 5 and in particular
Article  48  GDPR)  would  be  best  operationalised  if  they  were  embedded  at  an  early  stage  when
procuring 38 or  funding  services  provided  by  controllers  and  processors  established  in  the  EU
processing personal electronic health data.

35 See recital 53 GDPR relating to Article 9(4) GDPR: ‘However, this should not hamper the free flow of personal
data within the Union when those conditions apply to cross-border processing of such data.’
36 And provided that the other conditions of the GDPR are complied with, in particular Article 6 GDPR on the
obligation for the processing to be lawful.
37 Article 48 GDPR: ‘Any judgment of a court or tribunal and any decision of an administrative authority of a third
country  requiring  a  controller  or  processor  to  transfer  or  disclose  personal  data  may only  be  recognised  or
enforceable in any manner if based on an international agreement, such as a mutual legal assistance treaty, in
force  between  the  requesting  third  country  and  the  Union  or  a  Member  State,  without  prejudice  to  other
grounds for transfer pursuant to this Chapter.’
38 In this respect, Recital 78 of the GDPR provides that ‘the principles of data protection by design and by default
should also be taken into consideration in the context of public tenders’. Furthermore, Recital 77 of Directive
2014/24/EU  on  public  procurement provides  that  ‘when  drawing  up  technical  specifications,  contracting
authorities should take into account requirements ensuing from Union law in the field of data protection law, in
particular in relation to the design of the processing of personal data (data protection by design)’.

Adopted

28

113. Therefore, the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  that  Article  60  of  the  Proposal  also  refers,  as  a
condition to procure or fund services provided by controllers and processors established in the EU
processing personal electronic health data, that such controllers and processors (i) will store this
data in the EU and (ii) have duly demonstrated that they are not subject to third country legislations
conflicting with EU data protection rules.
8.3 National contact points of a third country or systems established at international

level

114. The EDPB and the EDPS note that Articles 13(3) and 52(5) of the Proposal provide for the possibility
for national contact points of a third country or systems established at an international level to be
recognised compliant with the requirements of respectively MyHealth@EU and HealthData@EU. The
EDPB and the EDPS recall that transfers stemming from the connection to and use of MyHealth@EU
and HealthData@EU should comply with Chapter V GDPR.

115. The EDPB and the EDPS note that Articles 13(3) and 52(5) of the Proposal provide for the possibility
for national contact points of a third country or systems established at an international level to be
recognised compliant with the requirements of respectively MyHealth@EU and HealthData@EU. The
EDPB and the EDPS recall that transfers stemming from the connection to and use of MyHealth@EU
and HealthData@EU should comply with Chapter V GDPR.

116.

In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS note that both Article 13(3) and Article 52(5) of the Proposal refer
to  compliance  checks  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Commission  before  issuing  the  implementing  act
establishing that a national contact point of a third country or a system established at an international
level is compliant with the requirements of MyHealth@EU or HealthData@EU. The EDPB and the EDPS
also note that Recital 26 of the Proposal, relating to MyHealth@EU, refers to the need for these checks
to ensure ‘compliance of the national contact point with the technical specifications, data protection
rules and other requirements [...]’. In this respect, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend clarifying
directly in both Article 13(3) and Article 52(5) of the Proposal that the compliance checks should
ensure that Chapter V GDPR will be complied with once the national contact point of a third country
or a system established at an international level is connected to MyHealth@EU or HealthData@EU.

9 EUROPEAN GOVERNANCE AND COORDINATION (CHAPTER VI)

117. The EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 64 of the Proposal establishes the EHDS Board, a coordination
body which aims to facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information among Member States.
The EDPB and the EDPS note that the EHDS Board will be composed of representatives of digital health
authorities and health data access bodies of all Member States and that the EDHS Board will be
chaired by the Commission. The EDPB and the EDPS note that, in line with the Proposal, the EDPB
and  the  EDPS  representatives may be  invited  to  the  meetings  when  data  protection  issues  are
discussed. The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  their  representatives  should  be  permanent
members  of  the  EHDS  Board (thus  not  only potentially  invited)  and  should  participate  to  all
discussions on personal data protection issues, in order to ensure a consistent interpretation and
application of the provisions introduced by the Proposal with regard to the provisions of the GDPR.

118. Moreover, Article 65(1) of the Proposal defines the tasks of the EHDS Board on the primary use of
electronic health data. The EDPB and the EDPS notice that the Commission will be able to issue written

Adopted

29

contributions  and  to  exchange  best  practices  on  matters  related  to  the  implementation  of  the
Proposal, in particular on the provisions set out in Chapters II and III of the Proposal (Article 65(1) (b)
(i)) and on any aspect of the primary use of electronic health data (Article 65.1 (b) (iii)). Since Chapter
II of the Proposal provides data protection rights similar to the GDPR (see point 28), the EDPB and the
EDPS consider that the EHDS Board should not be able to issue written contributions related to data
protection  rights  issues.  Otherwise, the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  underline  that  the  Proposal  risks
introducing  a  divergence  in  the  interpretation  or  the  application  of  data  protection  rights
determined by the EDPB and the EDPS. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS note that this provision will
create legal uncertainty, which will also be in contradiction with the Proposal’s goals to improve the
functioning  of  the  internal  market  by  laying down  a  uniform  legal  framework (Recital  1  of  the
Proposal). In addition, Article 65(2) of the Proposal specifies the EHDS Board tasks relating to the
secondary use of electronic health data. The EDPB and the EDPS reiterate their warning regarding the
competences of the EHDS Board to publish written contributions on issues related to data protection
rights regarding secondary use of electronic health data.

119. Furthermore, according to Articles 65(1) (d) and 65(2)(d) of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS note
that the EHDS Board will be able to share information concerning risks and data protection incidents
related to primary and secondary use of electronic health data together with information regarding
their  handling. Once  again,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  stress  that  the  Proposal  risks  introducing  a
divergence between the EDPB, the EDPS and the EHDS Board regarding the identification or the
handling  of  data  breaches,  since  the  EDHS  Board will  be  able  to  share  information  on  how  data
protection  incidents  could  be  handled. Besides,  there  is unclarity  as  to  the recipients  of  the
information the EHDS board will share. More generally, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend the co-
legislator to  specify  the  interplay  between  the  EDPB,  the  EDPS and  the  EHDS  Board  on  the  data
protection issues, which should remain the exclusive competence of the data protection authorities.

120. With respect to the same chapter, the EDPB and the EDPS note that Article 66 of the Proposal states
that the Commission shall establish two subgroups dealing with joint controllership for the cross-
border infrastructures MyHealth@EU and HealthData@EU (Articles 12 and 52 of the Proposal). The
EDPB and the EDPS note that the scope of the tasks of the joint controllership groups are not clearly
defined, and that they may overlap with the EHDS Board tasks under Article 65 of the Proposal. More
generally, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend that the interplay between the different bodies, groups
and organizations mentioned in the Proposal shall be clearly defined.

121.

In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS note some inconsistencies between the subgroups’ tasks and the
power of the Commission to adopt implemented or delegated acts on the same topics. For instance,
according  to Article  52(13) of  the  Proposal,  the  Commission  may  set  out  the  requirements,  the
technical specifications, the IT architecture of HealthData@EU through implementing acts, whereas
one of the two sub-groups will also make decisions concerning the development and operation of the
same infrastructure. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend that the interplay between the
Commission and these sub-groups is clarified.

10 DELEGATION AND COMMITTEE (CHAPTER VII)

122. Chapter VII of the Proposal allows the Commission to adopt delegated acts on several concrete aspects
regulated by the Proposal. In this regard, the EDPB and EDPS note that, regardless of the Member
States’ involvement in the decision making, the power to decide to modify or extend some of the
essential issues addressed by the Proposal still leaves the Commission with a considerable margin for

Adopted

30

manoeuvre to modify or extend the scope of the same Proposal in a way that could impact data
protection  rights  and  the  Member  States’ exclusive  competence  to  define  their  national  health
policies.

123.

In  particular, the EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider that  Articles  5(2)  and  33(7)  of  the  Proposal  raise
concerns, since the Commission is empowered to amend the list of priority categories of electronic
health data to be accessed and exchanged across Member States for primary use as well as the list of
electronic health data, subject to the mandatory availability and access by third parties for secondary
use. As any modification of such categories of personal data, notably special categories of data, might
require  a  re-evaluation  of the  risks  to  the  fundamental  rights  and  interests  of  the  concerned
individuals,  these  issues  amounts  to  substantive  matters  that  should  be  considered  as  essential
elements, pursuant to Article 290 of the TFEU.

124. Therefore,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  such matters  should  not  be  excluded  from  the
legislative level, where any restriction of fundamental rights should be clearly provided to achieve the
indispensable  foreseeability  of  the  legal  instrument  while  only  more  detailed  data  fields  (sub-
categories of data) falling under the already defined categories of data set out in Articles 5(1) and
33(1) of the Proposal should be added through the adoption of delegated acts.

125. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the criteria envisaged by Article 5(2)(b) of the Proposal
to guide the Commission in deciding the priority categories of electronic health data to be added to
the list established in Article 5(1) of the Proposal seem vague and should be further delimited39.

126. Finally, even though Article 67(4) of the Proposal states that the Commission shall consult experts
designated by each Member State, which may involve some expertise in data protection matters, the
EDPB and the EDPS recommend to introduce a clear reference to Article 42 of the EUDPR to make
clear that the  EDPS  and  EDPB  shall  be  consulted  as  appropriate  when  such delegated  acts  are
proposed.

11 MISCELLANEOUS (CHAPTER VIII)

127. The EDPB and EDPS note that Chapter VIII of the Proposal allocates the responsibility for establishing
penalties applicable to infringements of the Regulation on EU Member States. The EDPB and the EDPS
consider that this could potentially lead to significant legal uncertainties with respect to the proper
enforcement of the rules established by the Proposal in different Member States, due to the different
determination of penalties’ size, which could be with significantly different minimum and maximum
amount enforced from one to another Member State. In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS note that
harmonised rules on penalties should be established in order to ensure fair and safe enforcement,
especially in the context of cross-border cases.

128. Lastly, the EDPB and the EDPS note that, in line with previous comments on the self-certification of
EHR systems, the periods for evaluation and review established under Article 70 of the Proposal are
too long to ensure the proper implementation in time.

39 The  criteria  refer  to  the  “category  used  in  a  significant  number  of  EHR  systems  used  in  Member  States”
according to the most recent information.

Adopted

31

For the European Data Protection Supervisor

For the European Data Protection Board

The European Data Protection Supervisor

The Chair

(Wojciech Wiewiorowski)

(Andrea Jelinek)

1 For example, it is not clear whether manufacturers would fall within this categorisation.

Adopted

32

