Deliberation HAB-2022-006 of November 3, 2022National Commission for Computing and LibertiesNature of the deliberation: Internal provision cnilLegal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Tuesday November 22, 2022NOR: CNIL2231722XDeliberation No. HAB-2022-006 of 3 November 2022 authorizing agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties to carry out verification missionsThe National Commission for Computing and Liberties,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data;
Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L. 253-3;
Considering the law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 modified relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its articles 8.2. g, 10, 11 and 19;
After having heard Mr. Benjamin TOUZANNE, Government Commissioner, in his observations, if necessary, Decides: their functions, to carry out the visits and verifications mentioned in article 19 of the law of January 6, 1978 as amended and in article L. 253-3 of the internal security code:Mr. Belaïd AÏT HAMOUDA, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Ahlam AMMI, in charge of violation and cross-functional projects in the technological expertise service at the technology and innovation department;
Ms Amandine ANDRETTO, lawyer in the service of delegates and support at the legal support department;
Ms. Tess d'ARMAGNAC, legal expert in the health service in the legal support department;
Mr. Monir AZRAOUI, expert engineer in the technological expertise service at the technology and innovation department;
Mrs Audrey BACQUIÉ, in charge of the registry in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle BARBÉ, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Siré BARRY, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Leslie BASSE, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Jean BAUDRILLARD, deputy head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Mrs. Barbara BAVOIL, assistant in the economic affairs department of the legal support department;
Mrs. Inès BEDAR, lawyer in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the direction of legal support;
Ms Nacéra BEKHAT, head of the economic affairs department in the legal support department;
Mrs. Khadija BELGHITI-ALAOUI, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Justine BERTAUD DU CHAZAUD, lawyer in the employment, solidarity, sport and housing department in the legal support department;
Mr. Martin BIÉRI, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Thomas BIZET, head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Ms. Claire BIZOT-ESPIARD, legal expert in the health department in the legal support department;
Mrs. Nathalie BOHBOT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Stéphanie BOISSEAU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Cécile BOSSER, lawyer in the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Ms. Aziza BOUALLAGA BENHASSI, in charge of developing tools for compliance tools in the legal support department;
Ms. Soumia BOUASSAM, jurist in the health department in the legal support department;
Mr. Tanguy BOUCHER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Érik BOUCHER DE CRÈVECOEUR, lead health engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Valérie BOURRIQUEN, lawyer in the service of delegates and support in the direction of legal support;
Mrs. Sihame BOUSOUF, in charge of the registry in the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Flora BRAC DE LA PERRIERE, lawyer in the economic affairs department of the legal support department;
Ms Justine BRAIVE, legal expert in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Rodolphe BRÉARD, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Véronique BREMOND, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Céline BRÉZILLON, Deputy Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Émilie BRUNET, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Ms. Solenn BRUNET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Marie-Caroline CHAPERON, jurist in the service of delegates and accompaniment in the direction of legal accompaniment;
Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control service at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Marjolaine CASSAR, legal expert in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mrs. Madeleine CAZETTES DE SAINT LÉGER, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Mehdi CHAÏB, jurist in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Lucie CHARTRAIN, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Ms Virginie CLAUDE-LOONIS, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department;
Mrs Isabelle COHEN, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Erika COURSAUX, lawyer in the service of employment, solidarity, sport and habitat in the direction of legal support;
Mr. Olivier COUTOR, in charge of studies in the department of relations with the public and research;
Ms. Tess d'ARMAGNAC, legal expert in the health service in the legal support department;
Mr. Thomas DAUTIEU, director of legal support;
Ms. Manon de FALLOIS, assistant to the head of the health department in the legal support department;
Mrs. Marion de GASQUET, assistant to the head of the sovereign affairs and local authorities department in the legal support department;
Mrs. Alice de LA MURE, lawyer in the service of delegates and support in the direction of legal support;
Ms Justine DEBOTÉ, in charge of the registry in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle DELERUE, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Grégoire DELETTE, legal expert in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mrs. Amélie DELEUZE, lawyer in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr Éric DELISLE, Head of the Employment, Solidarity, Sport and Housing Department in the Legal Support Department;
Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, Director of Public Relations and Research;
Mrs. Maryange DICHI, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Sadio DIOUMASSY, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Julien DROCHON, auditor of information systems referent to the service of the controls at the direction of the protection of the rights and the sanctions;
Mr. Antoine DROIN, jurist in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Gabrielle DU BOUCHER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Marie DUBOYS FRESNEY, assistant to the head of the economic affairs department in the legal support department;
Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, assistant to the head of the control service in the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Louis DUTHEILLET DE LAMOTHE, Secretary General;
Ms. Jeanne DUVAL-TADEUSZ, head of the sovereign affairs and local authorities department, the legal support department;
Mrs Viktorija ELENSKI, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Anne FONTANILLE, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Mrs. Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects with the secretary general;
Mr. Thomas FRESSIN, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Aurore GAIGNON, jurist in the health service in the direction of legal support;
Mrs. Marie GAILLARDON, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the service of technological expertise in the direction of technologies and innovation;
Mr. Antoine GAUME, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Rodolphe GÉNISSEL, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Zelda GÉRARD, lawyer in the compliance tools department of the legal support department;
Mr. Mathieu GINESTET, jurist in the service of delegates and accompaniment in the direction of legal accompaniment;
Ms Laurène GOIRAND, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Yoann GONTHIER LE GUEN, jurist in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Sarah GUILLOU, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Hélène GUIMIOT-BREAUD, head of the health department, legal support department;
Mrs Sandra GREBER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Basile GULEY, lawyer in the service of employment, solidarity, sport and habitat in the direction of legal support;
Ms. Estelle HARY, designer in the service of the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Paul HÉBERT, deputy director of legal support;
Mrs Clarisse HESLAUT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Armand HESLOT, head of the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Marie HEUZÉ, jurist in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities, the direction of legal support;
Mrs Agathe HUBERT, lawyer in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Sonia HUDELA, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Nathalie JACQUES, assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Amandine JAMBERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Hugo JAUFFRET, jurist in the control service at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Julien JEDRZEJCZAK, responsible for legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Véronique JENNEQUIN, legal assistant in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Karin KIEFER, Director of the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mr. Anton KISYELYOV, jurist in the control service at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Joana KOJUNDZIC, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Jérémie KOUZMINE, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Michel KRAMER, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Marine LACHEVER, jurist in the health service in the direction of legal support;
Mrs. Névine LAHLOU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Victor LARGER, jurist in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Sébastien LASTRÉ, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Nina LE BONNIEC, jurist in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the direction of legal support;
Mr. Alexis LEAUTIER, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Ms. Delphine LEGOHÉREL, Deputy Director for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Noémie LICHON, Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, jurist in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle MANTZ, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mrs. Delphine MARGULIS, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Astrid MARIAUX, Head of the Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department;
Mr. Tony MARTIN, Deputy Head of the Controls Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Clothilde MAULIN, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Oriane MAURICE, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Nina Mc Evoy, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Marjorie MENAPACE, deputy head of the delegates and support service in the legal support department;
Mrs. Élise MERY-BOUDONNAT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Thomas MOREAU, jurist in the economic affairs department in the legal support department;
Mr. Mathias MOULIN, Deputy Secretary General;
Mrs. Sophie NERBONNE, director in charge of economic co-regulation;
Ms. Ingrid NKOUENJIN, Head of the Compliance Tools Department, Legal Support Department;
Mrs. Rabia OUADDAH, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Marie PACALET, lawyer in the service of employment, solidarity, sport and housing in the direction of legal support;
Mr. Bertrand PAILHÈS, director of technologies and innovation;
Mrs. Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Benoît PELLAN, in charge of developing compliance tools at the legal support department;
Ms Lorraine PERRONNE, jurist in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the direction of legal support;
Mr. Antoine PLANCHOT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Benjamin POILVÉ, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Laetitia RACINE, assistant to the head of the department for the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions 1;
Ms Florence RAYNAL, Head of the European and International Affairs Department;
Mr. Vincent RASNEUR, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Antoine RICART, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Albane RICHET, Deputy Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Caroline RILOS MACIAS, legal assistant in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms Anne-Charlotte ROUGELIN, Legal Advisor in the Public Relations Department in the Public Relations and Research Department;
Ms Mathilde ROUSSEL, legal assistant in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mrs. Stéphanie SAULNIER, lawyer in the service of employment, solidarity, sport and habitat in the direction of legal support;
Mr. Benoit SEGUIN, Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions 1;
Mrs. Lola TAIEB, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Ahlem TAMOUZA, jurist in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the direction of legal support;
Ms. Jamila TAZI, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Yunita TCHOUN KONG SAM, in charge of developing tools for compliance tools in the legal support department;
Mr. Vincent TOUBIANA, head of the digital innovation laboratory department in the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Félicien VALLET, Deputy Head of the Technological Expertise Department in the Technology and Innovation Department;
Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, Head of the Controls Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Anne VIDAL, jurist in the service of delegates and accompaniment in the direction of legal accompaniment;
Mrs. Albine VINCENT, head of the delegates and support service in the legal support department;
Mr. Paul VINCENT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Christophe VIVENT, cybersecurity engineer specializing in incident handling in the technological expertise department at the Technology and Innovation Department;
Ms Clémentine VOISARD, project manager in the public relations department;
Mrs. Élodie WEIL, jurist in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the legal support department. verification is repealed. Article 3: The clearances mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years. Article 4: This decision will be published in the Official Journal of the French Republic.
The president,
M. L. Denis