11/1

 File No.: PS/00244/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 05/18/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, CULTURE, SPORTS AND YOUTH, of the
CCAA de la RIOJA with NIF S3333001J (hereinafter, the claimed party). The motives
on which the claim is based are that it has requested, for transparency of information, the
access to the contracts signed by the defendant regarding education with
MICROSOFT and has been given a generic response. Relates the response to your request
of public information obtained on 05/17/2021 from which he deduces the facts.

Bring a copy of:

- Response of the defendant to her request of 04/22/2021 in which she requested: "copy
email or link to the contracts, agreements/legal acts signed by the
Community with Microsoft to offer its products to teachers and students, who
must include all aspects related to GDPR, since Microsoft becomes
responsible for the treatment and can be used by minors.", in accordance with the
Article 11 of Law 3/2014, of 11/09, on Transparency and Good Governance of La Rioja.”

In the body of the answer it appears: “The consumption of Microsoft online services through
those referred to are the services offered by this entity free of charge and
whose
 
in:
https://www.microsoft.com/es-xl/licensing/product-licensing/products.

conditions

notice

they can

use

of

HE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 The use agreements are applied at the same moment of the creation of the tenant, under the
name ON LINE SERVICES. Additionally, within the use agreement described
in the ON LINE SERVICES, reference is made to the DPA (PROTECTION ADDENDUM
OF DATA), in which all the information related to the use and
data processing."

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party on 06/7/2021,
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a period of one month, of
the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations
of data protection. Specifically, it was requested:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

"1. The decision adopted regarding this claim.
2. In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to 22

of the GDPR, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.
Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
Report on the measures taken to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents, implementation dates and controls carried out to
check its effectiveness.

3.

4.

5. Any other that you consider relevant.”

On 06/22/2021, this Agency received a written response in which
states:

1) Does not consider the claimant's disagreement as a matter of data protection,
but with the content of the response to your request in the right of access to the
public information provided. What would proceed would be to apply the regime of the
claim against that issue.

2) It considers that there are no indications of non-compliance with the regulations for the protection of
data that affects the processing of your personal data and that is not being
exercising any of the rights recognized in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR.

"It has been possible to verify that in the Data Protection Annex of services
3)
online (DPA) which is accessed from the email address provided in the response
that was given to the claimant, contains the information related to the obligations that
assume the parties with respect to the treatment and security of Customer Data and
Personal Data in connection with the Online Services. Among others, they are collected in
said information the following aspects: The scope of the Protection Addendum of
Data, the nature of the treatment, the ownership of the data, how the
disclosure of the same, the roles and responsibilities as responsible and in charge
of the treatment, the recognition of the rights as well as questions of security of
the data (notification of security incidents, conducting audits of
compliance, conservation and deletion of data...)

THIRD: On 08/05/2021, the claim was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigation actions to clarify the facts in question,
by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in article 57.1 and
the powers granted in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR), and in accordance with the
established in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, taking
knowledge of the following points:

On 02/03/2022, the defendant is requested to:
"Copy of the contract, agreement or legally equivalent document, signed by the
Community of La Rioja with Microsoft in order to offer their products to teachers and
students."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

The delivery appears in the electronic submission, on 02/04/2022, without obtaining a response,
reiterating the request, the shipment being collected on 04/22/2022. On 04/26/2022, the
Manifest claimed:
- "The Government of La Rioja did not carry out any contracting, since the
services in Education that Microsoft offers for free (A1 license). All the
Microsoft online services implicitly accept the use agreements in the
same moment of the creation of the tenant, called ON LINE SERVICES. sayings
Agreements can be consulted on the portals of said provider, (see the link):
“License Terms | Microsoft Volume Licensing Program”.
Additionally, within the use agreement described in the "ON LINE SERVICES", it is
refers to the DPA (Data Protection Addendum), where you can collect
all information related to the use and treatment of the data.”
-"It has been possible to verify that in the Annex of data protection of online services
(DPA) which is accessed from the electronic address provided in the response that
provided to the claimant contains the information regarding the obligations assumed by the
parties with respect to the processing and security of Customer Data and Data
Personal in connection with the Online Services. Among others, are collected in said
information the following aspects:
The scope of the Data Protection Addendum, the nature of the treatment, the
ownership of the data, how the disclosure will take place, the roles and
responsibilities as responsible and in charge of the treatment, the recognition of
rights, as well as data security issues (notification of incidents
security, conducting compliance audits, retention and disposal of
data…)"
FIFTH: On 07/7/2022, the Director of the AEPD agreed:
"START SANCTION PROCEDURE for the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,
CULTURE, SPORTS AND YOUTH, of the CCAA of RIOJA, with NIF S2633001J,
for the alleged infringement of article 28.3 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4 a) of the
GDPR and for the purposes of prescription in article 73.k) of the LOPDGDD. “

"For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, (LPCAP) the sanction that
could correspond would be a warning, without prejudice to what results from the
instruction."

SIXTH: On 07/21/2022, the defendant provides:

1) Document of "Data Protection addendum" of the products and services of
Microsoft, DPA last update 09/15/2021. These are the general conditions
that establishes the obligations regarding the treatment and security of the data
client data, professional services data, and personal data in connection with
the products and services. It can be highlighted:

“Nature of data processing
 

 ; ownership Microsoft will use and process the Data

Customer, Professional Services Data and Personal Data only
as described below, including the limitations indicated, (a) for
provide the Products and Services to the Customer in accordance with the instructions
documented from the Client.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

As to the parties, Customer retains all rights, title, and
interests in Customer Data and Professional Services Data.
Microsoft does not acquire any rights to Customer Data or Customer Data.
Professional Services, except for the rights Customer grants to Microsoft in
this section. This paragraph does not affect Microsoft's rights in the software or
services Microsoft licenses to Customer.



Data processing to provide the Products and Services to the Customer
 
 

For the purposes of this DPA, “provide” (also “provide” or “provide”) a

Product consists of:

- Provide functional capabilities that are licensed, configured, and
used by the Client and its users, which includes providing experiences of
custom user;

- Solve problems (prevention, detection and repair of problems); and

- Continuous improvement (installation of the latest updates and
implementation of improvements to user productivity, reliability, efficiency,
quality and safety).

For the purposes of this DPA, “provide” (also “provide” or “provide”) Services
Professionals consists of:

- Provide Professional Services, which include technical support services,
professional planning, consulting, assistance, data migration, deployment, and
Solution/software development.

- Solve problems (prevention, detection, investigation, mitigation and
troubleshooting, including Security Incidents and problems
identified in the Professional Services or in the Product (or Products) during the
provision of Professional Services); and

- Continuous improvement (improvement of the execution, efficacy, quality and safety of the
Professional Services and the underlying Product (or Products) based on the
problems identified during the provision of the Professional Services, including the
installation of the latest updates and repair of software defects).

In providing the Products and Services, Microsoft will not use or process Customer Data
Customer, Professional Services Data or Personal Data for: (a) the
user profiling, (b) advertising or similar commercial purposes, or (c)
market research aimed at creating new features, services or products,
or for any other purpose, unless said use or treatment is carried out in accordance with
with the Customer's documented instructions."

There are other sections such as:

-Processing of Personal Data; GDPR containing:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11







Roles and responsibilities as controller and processor

Treatment Details

Data Subject Rights: Assistance with Applications

-Data security, which is divided into:








security practices and policies,
data encryption
Data access
client responsibilities
Compliance audit
Notification of security incidents

-Transfer and location of data
-Preservation and deletion of data
-Confidentiality commitment as treatment manager
-Of notifications and controls on the use of your managers

-The following appendages are distinguished:




to security measures
B Data subjects and categories of personal data
C addendum of additional guarantees

-ANNEX 1 standard contractual clauses additional to the standard contractual clauses of
2021.

The "standard contractual clauses, appendix 1 and appendix 2, in
data importer name”, MICROSOFT.

-ANNEX 2 Terms in accordance with the GDPR, which includes:



Relevant obligations under the GDPR: articles 28, 32 and 33

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/6

2) Copy of Microsoft Press Release from the Microsoft page, which reflects a note
press release of 06/06/2014, indicating that "the AEPD confirms the guarantees of the services
Microsoft corporate offices in the cloud for data export, indicating that the
Agency confirms that Microsoft contracts offer adequate guarantees for
customers who entrust their personal data to Microsoft within the framework of corporate services
Office 365, Dynamics CRM online and Microsoft AZURE for the transfer
data international. “

It indicates that the AEPD "has analyzed the company's contract models for service
corporative cloud services under the protection of the LOPD”. “The AEPD considers the ga-
Warranties from Microsoft as a Data Importer” Microsoft's contractual framework for
data export has been based for years on contractual clauses
type in order to regulate the export of European customer data to suppliers
of services established outside the European Union. Includes a link that supposedly
leads to the resolution of 05/09/2014, IT 32/2014.

3) Copies of parts of minutes of meetings of the Council with schools
since 06/06/2014 in which references are made to assembly of infrastructures for
work with ICTs in the classroom, and the implementation of the Microsoft suite software
that will be integrated into RACIMA and the creation of new portals on demand from the
centers. Also from meetings in October 2014 on ICT training.

4) Copy of a MICROSOFT document, consisting of an email from 07/08/2014 to
a person from the Ministry, welcoming the driver's license service center
MICROSOFT volume (VLSC). To access VLSC with the permissions you
have been assigned, you must first register and validate the email address
professional that was provided to Microsoft for VLSC.

5) Copy of the MICROSOFT license number where the signature of
07/31/2014, from the Government of La Rioja. Contract “campus School. Enrollment for
Education Solutions. Azure only enrollment.”

6) Copy of an email from Volume Licensing Service Center
Microsoft, of 08/08/2014 to a responsible person, of a General Directorate of
Information and communication technologies of the Ministry, with the number of
customer contract, and the registration number with acceptance of the registration of
"Microsoft enrollment for Education Solutions" and mention of the activation of "online
services” that will be sent to the person designated in the registration as administrator
“online services”.

7) Copy of an agenda of a meeting of 10/15/2014, of teaching staff and the
Ministry in which the implementation of face-to-face training and
virtual from December to March on the Office 365 suite.

8) Copy of invoice, amount 0, from Microsoft, for the month of February 2015 from Microsoft to
Government of La Rioja, Ministry of Public Administrations and Finance - element:
Office 365 e-1 educational environment for students and teachers, protection
Online exchange for students and teachers

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

9) Copy of two printed sheets of 02/25/2015 from the office.com portal with Office 365,
start the free trial with the account settings, which contains the
email edu@larioja.org, with the data of a person responsible for the
Ministry of Education, appearing "Office 365 education E 3 for teachers and for
students".

10) Copy of the platform development maintenance service contract
RACIMA for centers supported with public education funds from the Government of
La Rioja of 06/30/2022.

SEVENTH: On 02/21/2023, the following proposed resolution was issued:

"That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection the
violation of article 28.3 of the GDPR, in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the GDPR,
and for the purposes of prescription in article 73. k) of the LOPDGDD, imputed to the
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, CULTURE, SPORTS AND YOUTH, of the CCAA of
la RIOJA with NIF S3333001J.”
Faced with it, no allegations are received.

EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the
documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant on 04/22/2021 requests the defendant a “copy of
email or link to the contracts/agreements/legal acts signed with
MICROSOFT to offer its products to teachers and students” in accordance with
Article 11 of Law 3/2014, of 11/09 on Transparency and Good Governance of La Rioja.
In the response obtained, dated 05/17/2021, the defendant indicates a link in the
containing information from MICROSOFT online services where you can
obtain information about the licensing programs and Informs you that "licensing agreements
use are applied at the same moment of the creation of the tenant under the name ON
LINE SERVICES”. Within the agreement reference is made to the DPA-protection addendum
of data - in which all the information related to the use and treatment of
of the data. The page informs “When you subscribe to an online service under the
product terms and conditions, data processing and terms of
security are defined in the Online Services Data Protection Annex (DPA). He
DPA is an addendum to the Product Terms and Conditions (formerly OST). No
in accordance with what was delivered, by the generic response, and not including the custom contract
of treatment, the claimant files a claim with this AEPD, which also
requested in previous proceedings, and was not provided.

SECOND: In the allegations to the initiation agreement, the defendant has provided a copy of the
MICROSOFT OFFICE 365 EDUCATION E-3 customer contract, for teachers and
students, Free version signed on 07/31/2014.

The Microsoft contract is signed online and implies acceptance of the
use agreements called "on line services", additionally appears in the agreements
of use a Data Protection Addendum-DPA-that collects the information

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

related to the use and treatment of data and is updated in its versions. in said
Addendum includes the conditions of data processing. In addition, they include
Appendices and annexes.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee
of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and
resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Regarding the intervening subjects related to data processing, it is necessary to
go to the concept of responsible and in charge of the processing of personal data in
Article 4.7 and 8 of the GDPR:

"7) responsible for the treatment" or "responsible": the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means
god of treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the
purposes and means of processing, the controller or specific criteria
for their appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the States
members;"

8) person in charge of the treatment" or "in charge": the natural or legal person, public authority
public authority, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the controller
of the treatment”

Whether the platform license agreement signed is free or not, is not an obstacle to
that in any case the functionality of the software and applications used by MICROSO-
FT require the introduction of personal data, teachers or/and students, with a
purpose or the creation of an account to configure the service within some terms.
General terms of the contract. In this sense, the reference in the abstract to the conditions
general terms of the agreement that are exposed on the MICROSOFT website can be accessed
available by anyone through the Internet, and it did not constitute what was requested by the claimant, nor
which has been repeatedly requested by this AEPD.

One of the principles of the GDPR is to comply with the regulations and prove documentary-
Mind that it is being fulfilled.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

Article 5.1 a) and .2 states:

1. Personal data will be:

a) treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness,

loyalty and transparency»);

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of

paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").

The defendant did not contribute before the initiation agreement, despite being expressly requested,
the copy of the adherence to the contract or any other written legal act that binds you
with MICROSOFT. The people and entities that to provide educational services use
use a learning platform with the use of an educational software license, tran-
personal data of students and teachers, responsibility of the re-
called.

This person in charge is characterized, in accordance with article 4.7 of the GDPR because:

-It is the one that establishes the purpose or result of the treatment, its purposes and the methods
god of treatment, extension and scope of the tools to be used.

-Establishes on which individuals the data is processed.

-Decisions are made as part or result of treatment.

Companies that perform this type of service (Cloud Computing, educational platforms,
tives, data hosting) offer educational centers computer applications
structured as "learning platforms" accessible through the Internet that
They can be composed of different types of software. Therefore, in this case, the
The essence of the use of the application is the consideration of the service provider in charge.
treatment on behalf of the person in charge.

As data that is processed through application software, initial
initially to the claimed a violation of article 28 of the GDPR, which indicates:

"1. When a treatment is going to be carried out on behalf of a person in charge of the
treatment, this will only choose a person in charge who offers sufficient guarantees
to apply appropriate technical and organizational measures, so that the treatment
is in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation and guarantees the protection of
the rights of the interested party.

2. The person in charge of the treatment will not resort to another person in charge without the authorization
prior written, specific or general, of the person in charge. In the latter case, the
person in charge will inform the person in charge of any change foreseen in the incorporation or
replacement of other processors, thus giving the controller the opportunity to oppose
said changes.

3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act with
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

10/11

under Union or Member State law, which binds the person in charge
regarding the person responsible and establish the object, duration, nature and purpose
of the treatment, the type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the
obligations and rights of the person in charge. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in
particular, that the person in charge:

a) will process personal data only following documented instructions from the
responsible, including with respect to transfers of personal data to a third party
country or an international organization, unless required to do so by virtue of
Law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the person in charge; in that
case, the person in charge will inform the person in charge of that legal requirement prior to the
treatment, unless such Law prohibits it for important reasons of interest
public;

b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data have
committed to respect confidentiality or are subject to an obligation of
confidentiality of a statutory nature;

c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;

d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another

treatment manager;

e) assist the controller, taking into account the nature of the treatment, through
appropriate technical and organizational measures, whenever possible, so that this
can comply with its obligation to respond to requests that have as their object the
exercise of the rights of the interested parties established in chapter III

f) will help the controller to ensure compliance with the obligations
established in articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment and
the information available to the person in charge;

g) at the choice of the person in charge, he will delete or return all personal data once
Once the provision of treatment services ends, and will delete the copies
existing unless the retention of personal data is required under
Union or Member State law;

h) will make available to the controller all the information necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the obligations established in this article, as well as for
enable and assist in the performance of audits, including inspections, by the
controller or another auditor authorized by said controller.

In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the person in charge shall inform
immediately to the controller if, in their opinion, an instruction violates this
Regulation or other provisions on data protection of the Union or of
the member states.

9. The contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4 will consist of

written, including in electronic format.

Having provided a copy of the contract for data processing dated
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

07/31/2014, verifying the process that led to it, and being of a previous date
upon receipt of the claim and also of the claimant's request for a copy to the
Ministry, it is appropriate to file the accused infraction. Although it could initially
to think that it lacked it, and that it was what motivated the initiation of the procedure, it was
has finally contributed.
Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ARCHIVE the violation of article 28.3 of the GDPR attributed to the
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, CULTURE, SPORTS AND YOUTH, of the CCAA
de la RIOJA with NIF S3333001J,

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,
CULTURE, SPORTS AND YOUTH, of the CCAA of La RIOJA with NIF S3333001J

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-181022

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

