DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

TO: Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime (MOPAC) 

OF: 169 Union Street, Southwark, London, SE1 0LL. 

1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to MOPAC in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK 
General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) in respect of certain 
alleged infringements of the UK GDPR.   

The proposed reprimand 

1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to MOPAC in 
respect of the following alleged infringements of the UK GDPR: 

• Article 5 (1)(F) – Personal data shall be processed in a manner that

ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against
accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical
or organisational measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’).

• Article 32 (1) – “…the controller and the processor shall implement
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level
of security appropriate to the risk”.

1.3 The reasons for the Commissioner’s provisional findings are set out 
below.  

1.4 MOPAC is a functional body of the Greater London Authority (GLA) 
responsible for oversight of the Metropolitan Police. From the evidence 
provided, the Commissioner is satisfied that GLA is a data processor, 
acting on the instructions of MOPAC and carrying out data processing on 
its behalf. GLA hosts MOPAC’s pages and webforms on the London.gov.uk 
website. It is MOPAC that determines the purpose and means of the 
processing. It is therefore appropriate to issue the notice against the 
controller, MOPAC. 

1 

1.5 Within the London.gov.uk website, there was a webform to contact 
the London Victims’ Commissioner as well as other webforms. Between 
11-14 November 2022, a member of GLA intended to give four members 
of MOPAC permission to the webforms. However, instead of granting 
permission to the four members of MOPAC, they made two web forms 
public. On 23 February 2023 MOPAC were made aware by a member of 
the public that it was possible for users to click a button that would 
enable users to access information on every query that had been 
submitted via the form. 394 people were later notified of the breach due 
to the nature of the personal data that was made publicly accessible on 
the forms.   
 
1.6 MOPAC have been unable to evidence that there was any specific 
training to the members of GLA staff around granting permissions on 
webforms. Further to this, there was no policy in place at the time of the 
incident on how permissions should be granted at either MOPAC or GLA. 
 
Mitigating factors 
 
1.7 In the course of our investigation we have noted that MOPAC have 
acted professionally to ensure that the impacts of this breach have been 
mitigated and that the data subjects were informed.  
 
 
Remedial steps taken by MOPAC 
 
1.8 The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial 
steps taken by MOPAC in the light of this incident. In particular, the 
awareness and training that has been delivered around the permission 
forms to members of GLA and MOPAC since the incident. 
 
 
Provisional decision to issue a reprimand 
 
1.9 Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has provisionally 
decided to issue a reprimand to MOPAC in relation to the alleged 
infringements of Article 5 (1)(F) and Article 32 of the UK GDPR set out 
above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 

 

2 

1.10 The Commissioner has set out below certain recommendations which 
may assist MOPAC in rectifying the infringements outlined in this 
reprimand and ensuring MOPAC and it’s processors’ future compliance 
with the UK GDPR. Please note that these recommendations do not form 
part of the reprimand and are not legally binding directions. As such, any 
decision by MOPAC to follow these recommendations is voluntary and a 
commercial decision for MOPAC. For the avoidance of doubt, MOPAC and 
any of its processors are required to comply with its obligations under the 
law.  
 
1.11 If in the future the ICO has grounds to suspect that MOPAC or any of 
its processors are not complying with data protection law, any failure by 
MOPAC and its processors to rectify the infringements set out in this 
reprimand (which could be done by following the Commissioner’s 
recommendations or taking alternative appropriate steps) may be taken 
into account as an aggravating factor in deciding whether to take 
enforcement action - see page 11 of the Regulatory Action Policy  
Regulatory Action Policy (ico.org.uk) and Article 83(2)(i) of the UK GDPR. 
 
1.12 The Commissioner recommends that MOPAC should consider taking 
certain steps to improve its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular 
reference to article 5 (1)(F) of the UK GDPR, the following steps are 
recommended: 
 
1.  Ensure that online forms and other public facing 

documentation/information is routinely audited to ensure that it is 
working as expected and in line with data protection legislation.  
 

2.  Continue to ensure that members of MOPAC and its processors are 

regularly completing data protection and information governance 
training.  

 

 

3 

