Andrzej Halicki
Member of the European Parliament
Brussels

Brussels, 15 March 2021
Ref: OUT2021-0048

Dear Mr. Halicki,

Thank  you  for  your  letter  of 14  October  2020  and  for  bringing  this  issue  to  the  attention  of  the
European Data Protection Board (EDPB).

As already underlined in my letter of 8 May 2020, the EDPB dedicates special attention to the issue of
processing of personal data for election purposes.1 As stated in my previous letter, personal data must
be processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner, for specified purposes only. In the context
of elections conducted by the collection of postal votes, the EDPB stressed the responsibility of the
state  to  ensure  that  specific  safeguards  are  in  place  to  maintain  the  secrecy  and  integrity  of  the
personal data concerning political opinions.

The EDPB takes note of the national court rulings you mentioned in your letter. The Board reiterates
that personal data about individuals included in electoral lists must be processed in compliance with
the data protection principles. Applying such principles is also key to the role of the member state’s
independent judiciary.

In addition, I would like to stress again that the EDPB does not have the same competences, tasks and
powers  as  national  supervisory  authorities  and,  therefore,  it  is  up  to  the  national  supervisory
authorities to monitor and enforce, if necessary, the protection of personal data of data subjects
within their jurisdiction. In that respect, I would like to underline that, in accordance with article 52 of
the  GDPR,  national  supervisory  authorities  shall  act  independently  in  performing  their  tasks  and
exercising their powers, and shall remain free from external influence.

1 Please  see  the  EDPB  Statement  2/2019  on  the  use  of  personal  data  in  the  course  of  political  campaigns
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb-2019-03-13-statement-on-elections_en.pdf

The EDPB is fully aware of the importance of ensuring that elections are conducted in full compliance
with the rights and freedoms of citizens, including the right to data protection, and will continue to
pay attention to the developments on this matter.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

