

Bonn/Berlin, May 19, 2020


Press release 11/2020


BfDI welcomes judgment on foreign-foreign telecommunications reconnaissance
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) Professor Ulrich Kelber is pleased with the judgment of the Federal Constitutional Court on foreign-foreign telecommunications reconnaissance. The BfDI had already pointed out in the past that, for example, the transmission regulations are not legal and that German officials must also enjoy protection abroad.

Professor Kelber said: The Federal Constitutional Court considers a comprehensive control of the Federal Intelligence Service to be absolutely necessary. My agency has held this view for a long time. Control bodies need effective powers and sufficient human and financial resources to carry out their tasks. It is also crucial that these control bodies can exchange information with each other. Even the so-called third-party rule for cooperation with foreign secret services must not impede control. The effectiveness of the control and the legal regulations must be evaluated at regular intervals. The judgment now enables a new quality of supervision.
The BfDI had been heard as an expert and data protection supervisory authority of the Federal Intelligence Service in the proceedings before the Federal Constitutional Court.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











