1/16

 File No.: PS/00362/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 27, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against BANCO BILBAO
VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement
which is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00362/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated March 25, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A.
with NIF A48265169 (hereinafter, the claimed).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/16

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the respondent provides details of the
last movements of the Affinity Card through a service system
automated telephone call on the telephone ***TELÉFONO.1 in which only
as identification data the client's ID.

It is stated by the claimant that the entity claimed does not adopt any other
security measure to confirm the identity of the client so that any
person can call, give a DNI number and obtain information associated with that
DNI, without verifying that the caller is the holder of said document
identification.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/03724/2020, transfer of
said claim to the claimant on June 8, 2020, so that he could proceed with his
analysis and report to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

Despite the nature of this requirement, which, as indicated in article 65.4 of the
LOPDGDD, is optional and prior to the start of any procedure, the
September 25, 2020, the entity claimed in response to the requirement of this
Agency, states that the Agency's letter has not indicated the deadline for
respond, which implies an error in the processing of the procedure, which is why
that based on article 76.2 of Law 39/2015 of Common Administrative Procedure
of the Public Administrations, requests that the procedure be paralyzed, until
said error is corrected and you are notified again of said request for information.

THIRD: On December 4, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the
claimant.

FOURTH: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

On December 10, 2020, a request for information is sent to BANK
BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. using several ways:

 Electronically through notific@, a system that allows proof that the
notification has been delivered on December 16, 2020, but no
receive reply.

 By post, but no reply is received.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

Article 58 of the GDPR states:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

(…)

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;

(…)”

The RGPD establishes in article 5 of the principles that must govern the treatment of
personal data and mentions among them that of “integrity and confidentiality”.

The article notes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

  f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

In turn, the security of personal data is regulated in article 32 of the
RGPD, where it is established that:

  "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a)

pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and

a)
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

the ability to restore availability and access to personal data

b)
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

The violation of article 32.1 of the RGPD is typified in article 83.4.a)
of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 a
39, 42 and 43.

(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements considered
serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

The RGPD in the aforementioned article 32, does not establish a list of security measures
that are applicable according to the data being processed, but
that establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply measures
technical and organizational that are appropriate to the risk involved in the treatment,
taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the nature,
scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability and severity
for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, pointing out that the determination of technical measures and
organizational must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the provisions of
this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the risks
inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption. These
measures must ensure an adequate level of security, including the
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

IV

In this case, it is stated that the claimed entity provides details of the
last movements of the Affinity Card through a service system
automated telephone call on the telephone ***TELÉFONO.1 in which only
as identification data the client's ID.

Unless there is evidence to the contrary, these facts mean that the defendant would not adopt the
adequate security measures, since any person using the system of
Automated telephone service could give a DNI number whether or not you are the holder of the
same and obtain information associated with that DNI, since the claimed entity does not
adopts security measures to verify that the person requesting such
information is the holder of said identification document.

This Agency informed the entity of the claim filed and
requested information in relation to this claim, in accordance with the
article 65.4 of the RGPD.

On September 25, 2020, the entity claimed in response to said request
requests the stay of the procedure, in accordance with article 76.2 of the law
39/2015 of Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations,
alleging defects in the processing.

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection addressed the respondent, requiring
information in accordance with article 65.4 of the RGPD that establishes the following:

"Before deciding on the admission to processing of the claim, the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection may send it to the data protection delegate who
had, where appropriate, designated the person responsible or in charge of the treatment or the
oversight body established for the application of codes of conduct to
the effects foreseen in articles 37 and 38.2 of this organic law. The agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority may also send the claim to the
responsible or in charge of the treatment when a
data protection delegate or adhered to resolution mechanisms
out-of-court settlement of conflicts, in which case the person in charge or person in charge must give
response to the claim within a month.”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

Said requirement is ex gratia, to discern the convenience or
not to admit the procedure for processing by virtue of the answer given by the
claimed to this Agency, to the extent possible to avoid initiating procedures
sanctioning when the situation object of the claim has already been solved or
there is a serious and verifiable purpose that is being solved, without detriment to
the investigative actions that the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
as a control authority, it can always carry out, if it considers it opportune and
necessary, in accordance with article 57.1 of the RGPD.

Neither of the two is inferred from the response given by the respondent entity.
indicated possibilities.

Therefore, due to the facts claimed, that is, failure to adopt measures of
adequate security by the claimed entity, without respecting the principle of
integrity and confidentiality of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, whose purpose, among others, is to avoid
unauthorized or illicit treatment of personal data, this Agency proceeds to
the opening of the corresponding sanctioning procedure against the entity
claimed, for the possible violation of article 32 of the RGPD, transcribed in the
foundation II that states that “the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security
appropriate".

In addition, in accordance with article 32 of the RGPD, it will be required that the claimed
take appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of
adequate security using mechanisms that allow:

-pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

-the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resiliency
permanent treatment systems and services;

-the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

-a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

v

Article 83.4 a) of the RGPD establishes that:
Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount:
a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 a
39, 42 and 43

In turn, article 73.f) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
bass has:

“According to article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they will be considered serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after two years.
of the articles mentioned therein, and in particular the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

SAW

In accordance with the precepts indicated, against the infraction of article 32,
considers that it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the following
criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

As aggravating the following:

 The number of clients of the defendant entity is high and therefore also the

number of affected (art. 83.2 a)

 The defendant is a solvent entity that has the technical means to take
adequate security measures, their lack supposes negligence in their actions
(article 83.2 b)

 The high degree of responsibility of the claimed party, since trying to
daily personal data of your customers as part of your business and
adopting appropriate security measures, including those of the
regulation for the prevention of fraud in banking entities, it is
fully aware of the need to implement security measures
appropriate to the risk in all the treatments you carry out, aggravates your
liability for lack of security measures (art. 83.2 d)

 Despite the previous requirements and attempts to communicate this Agency with the
entity claimed to know the situation from the point of view of all the
affected parties, the entity claimed, has not submitted allegations to the
prior requirement, rather than to request its suspension alleging errors in the
processing of a procedure not initiated, and without collaborating with this Agency in
their actions, despite being aware of the claim filed against
she (art. 83.2 f)

7th

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/16

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE against BANCO BILBAO
VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A., with NIF A48265169, in accordance with the provisions of
article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT instructor to B.B.B. and, as Secretary to C.C.C., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection during the
investigation phase, as well as the report of previous Inspection actions.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2. b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October and article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, it would be appropriate to impose a penalty of 200,000
euros (two hundred thousand euros) for the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, without prejudice
of what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A., with NIF A48265169, granting it a hearing period of ten
working days to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient. In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at €160,000 (one hundred and sixty thousand euros), resolving the procedure
with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €160,000 (one hundred and sixty thousand euros), and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at €120,000 (one hundred and twenty thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above €160,000 (one hundred and sixty thousand euros) or €120,000 (one hundred
twenty thousand euros), you must make it effective by depositing it in account number ES00
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and
the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it avails itself.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On August 18, 2021, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 120,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00362/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-160721

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

