1/8

 File No.: EXP202102833

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 09/26/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection (hereinafter, AEPD) a document presented by A.A.A. (in
successively, the claimant), through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one), for the installation of a
video surveillance located at ****ADDRESS.1, with indications of a possible
Non-compliance with the provisions of the data protection regulations
staff.

The reasons underlying the claim are as follows:

“A neighbor of a property near ours has a station installed
weather forecaster on his balcony, which also has video cameras, and one of them
focuses directly on our building, being able to clearly observe the gardens and
terraces, as well as who enters and leaves the garage.

These cameras are broadcasting live 24 hours a day on the application
Twitch, in addition to uploading videos to other platforms…

[…]

Attach the following documentation:

- Two videos with screen recording dated 08/22/2021 and 09/26/2021 of the

live broadcast of those days on the Twitch platform.

- Screenshots of the Twitter account of the date claimed
08/21/2021 where the images captured by the cameras of the
weather station and the access link to your Twitch profile.

- Copy of emails from 08/23 and 24/2021 and 09/3 and 6/2021 exchanged
between the claimant, the Property Administration of his community and that of the
claimed, and the claimed.

SECOND: In accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD) was transferred on 10/01/2021 of
said claim to the claimed party, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform
to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt
to the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations. The notification is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

occurred on 10/19/2021 through postal mail, as stated in the notice issued
by Post.

On 10/19/2021, the respondent submits a brief of allegations in which
states, in short, that the video cameras that make up your station
do not have a video surveillance purpose, but "it is strictly
landscape and meteorological He adds that his activity is within the
limits stipulated by the AEPD in relation to capturing landscape images
or panoramic, since "it can be verified through the images, that
no way can identify or make identifiable any person or
any other data such as plates, license plates etc. that could breach the
normative"

THIRD: On 10/25/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data agreed to admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing.

FOURTH: On 01/05/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 01/19/2022 the respondent is notified of the opening agreement of this
sanctioning procedure and a hearing period of TEN DAYS is granted
SKILLFUL to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient, in accordance with the provisions of articles 73 and 76 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

SIXTH: After the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the agreement
of the beginning of the procedure, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal.

In the present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

SEVENTH: The agreement to initiate the procedure agreed in the third point of the
operative part “INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for the purposes of evidence, the
claims submitted by claimants and the information and documentation

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

obtained by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection in the phase of
information prior to the agreement for admission to processing of the claim”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Installation of a weather station with a video surveillance system
composed of at least 4 chambers, in the building located at ****ADDRESS.1, which
captures images of surrounding buildings and people, as well as public roads.
They are accessible through the Twitch, Youtube and Twitter platform.

SECOND: It is identified as responsible for the B.B.B. with NIF
***NIF.1.

THIRD: The respondent states that the cameras have a strictly
landscape and meteorological, and that do not capture images of natural persons
identifiable or other elements.

However, it is credited by the recordings and screenshots provided
by the claimant that not only capture the adjoining houses and the public road, but also
that, if the captured images are enlarged, the patio or terrace can be clearly seen,
among others, of the houses. Therefore, the cameras could capture images
of people found in these places.

FOURTH: The Spanish Agency for Data Protection has notified the claimed
agreement to open this sanctioning procedure, but has not presented
allegations or evidence that contradicts the reported facts.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

The image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is personal data and its
protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2 of the RGPD it is
defines the concept of “treatment” of personal data.

Article 22 of the LOPDGDD includes the specific rules for the treatment of
data for video surveillance purposes and states the following:

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the treatment
ment of images through camera systems or video cameras with the purpose
to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is im-
dispensable for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture public roads to a greater extent
when necessary to guarantee the security of assets or strategic installations.
services or infrastructures linked to transport, without in any case being able to
put the capturing of images of the interior of a private home.

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its collection, except
when they had to be kept to prove the commission of acts that attend to
have against the integrity of people, goods or facilities. In this case, the images
must be made available to the competent authority within a maximum period of
seventy-two hours since the existence of the recording became known.
tion.

The blocking obligation provided for in art.
article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device in a sufficient place
ciently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the identity
of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in articles 15
to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the device information
I attach a connection code or internet address to this information.

In any case, the person in charge of the treatment must keep available to the
affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered excluded
of its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images that are
regretfully capture the interior of your own home.

This exclusion does not cover processing carried out by a private security entity.
given that she had been hired to guard a home and had access to the
images.

6. The processing of personal data from the images and sounds obtained
nests through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Forces and Corps
Security and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in the centers

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

penitentiaries and for the control, regulation, surveillance and discipline of traffic, will be governed
by the legislation transposing Directive (EU) 2016/680, when the treatment
for purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of violations
criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, including protection and prevention
against threats to public safety. Apart from these assumptions, said
treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and additionally by the Regulations
to (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of the Law
5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through camera systems
cameras or video cameras is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this organic law.

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of 4
april.

-

Camcorders will not be able to capture images of people
are outside the private space where the security system is installed.
video surveillance, since the processing of images in public places only
can be carried out, unless there is government authorization, by the
Security Forces and Bodies. They cannot be captured or recorded
spaces owned by third parties without the consent of their owners, or, in their
case, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the
protection of private spaces, where cameras have been installed in
facades or inside, it may be necessary to guarantee the purpose of
security recording a portion of the public highway. That is, the cameras
and video cameras installed for security purposes will not be able to obtain images
of public roads unless it is essential for that purpose, or it is
impossible to avoid due to their location and extraordinarily
The minimum space for said purpose will also be collected. Therefore, the
cameras could exceptionally capture the minimally necessary portion
for its intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles

12 and 13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under their responsibility, including the information to which
refers to article 30.1 of the RGPD.

-

The installed cameras cannot obtain images of private spaces.
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, or
may affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the
zone. It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the
private property of neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their
private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installations and in particular, not being able to affect the
surrounding public spaces, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those
access the guarded space.

In relation to the foregoing, to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to data protection legislation
including the RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” /
“regulations”), to the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other
purposes and the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available
in the “Guides and tools” section).

It is also of interest in the event that low-level data processing is carried out.
risk, the free tool Facilita (in the “Guides and tools” section) that,
through specific questions, it allows to assess the situation of the person in charge
regarding the processing of personal data that it carries out and, where appropriate, generate
various documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with
indicative security measures considered minimal.

IV

In the present case, the respondent has not presented arguments or evidence that
contradict the facts denounced within the period given for it.

In accordance with the evidence available and which has not been
distorted during the sanctioning procedure, the defendant has installed a
video surveillance system outside your home, located at ****ADDRESS.1,
that can capture images of public roads, as well as buildings
close and people.

Based on the foregoing, the facts entail a violation of the provisions of the
article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, which supposes an infringement typified in article 83.5 a)
of the RGPD, which provides the following:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

(…)

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD qualifies as very
serious:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679;

(…)

v

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they find the power to direct a warning (art. 58.2 b)), the power
to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD (art. 58.2 i)),
or the power to order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the
treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period (art. 58.2 d)).

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

In the present case, taking into account the special circumstances that concur in the
allegedly responsible for the infringement and making an interpretation
of the criterion inspired by Recital 148 of the RGPD, according to which when the
fine likely to be imposed would constitute a disproportionate burden
A warning may be imposed instead of the sanction of a fine, at this stage of the
procedure, it is estimated that due to the infringement of article 5.1 c) of the RGPD,
direct a warning.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of article 5.1.c)
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: ORDER to B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1 that, by virtue of article 58.2 d)
of the GDPR, within ten days, take the following measures:

- Prove that you proceeded to remove the cameras from the current location, or to
reorientation of these towards their particular area or that does not suppose a
disproportionate uptake.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-150222

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

