 

press release

International Freedom of Information Day!

It's everybody's business!

 

 

Erfurt, September 28, 2022

 
On the occasion of today's International Freedom of Information Day, the

Thuringian State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (TLfDI),

dr Lutz Hasse, for more transparency awareness in public authorities in Thuringia

advertise. The people in Thuringia have a very good or extensive

Right to information, regulated in the Thuringian Transparency Act (ThürTG) -

see the transparency ranking 2021 by Mehr Demokratie e.V.

-

https://www.mehr-demokratie.de/fileadmin/pdf/2021/2021-07-

15_Transparency ranking_web.pdf. The ThürTG alone is intended for more transparency

through proactive action by public authorities. That means: information

from general

Interest should come from the authorities, municipalities or

State authorities are made available independently, without there being one

application is required. Unfortunately, this is not yet happening everywhere in practice

Thuringia.

In this context, the TLfDI also refers to the current resolution of the

conference

the

Freedom of Information Officer:

"No bypass

the

Freedom of information through the establishment of foundations under civil law!”. The reason

for this resolution was that the state government of Mecklenburg-

Vorpommern (M-V) the release of information about the "Climate and

Environmental Protection” (whose goal was, among other things, to build the Nord Stream 2

to finish) refused –

please refer

in addition

the

resolution

under:

https://tlfdi.de/fileadmin/tlfdi/info/ifk/Entschluss-42-IFK-Stiftungen-

Freedom of information_30.06.pdf .

  

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 


 
 

 

- 2 -

The Higher Regional Court of Rostock decided by decision (Az 6 U 19/22 on July 11th, 2022

Legal opinion of the District Court of Schwerin confirms that the Stiftung Klima- und

Environmental protection MV is obliged on the basis of the state press law M-V,

to provide information to the press.

 

"Circumstances such as those in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania make it clear that

the public authorities do not hide in the loopholes of private law

can," says Dr. Lutz Hasse.

 
 
 

 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

 

 

