1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00155/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: CIUDAD REAL CITY COUNCIL (*hereinafter, the claimant) with
On December 16, 2019, he filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection. The claim is directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
later, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are "absence of
information poster” in the establishment called *** ESTABLISHMENT.1

Record-Complaint of the Local Police (Doc. No. 1) dated 12/07/19 is provided that
confirms the presence of two cameras, without the establishment
*** ESTABLISHMENT.1 there is an informative poster in a visible area, indicating
It is a video-monitored area.

SECOND: On 01/31/20 and 03/04/20, TRANSFER of the
claim to the denounced party so that it could express what in law it deems
timely, without any allegation having been made in this regard.

THIRD: On July 17, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: Formal notification of the initiation agreement through the publication of
announcement on the Edictal Board of the Official State Gazette dated August 24,
2020 in accordance with the provisions of article 44 of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPCAP) the respondent has not submitted a brief of allegations, so it is
of application what is indicated in article 64 of the aforementioned rule, which in its section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

FACTS

FIRST: The establishment called *** ESTABLISHMENT.1 located in
***ADDRESS.1, with a café-concert license, has a system of
video surveillance, according to the record drawn up by the Ciudad Real Local Police on
December 7, 2019.

SECOND: The mentioned system does not have an informative device of its
existence

THIRD: The respondent is the owner of the establishment.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The defendant is charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of article 13 of the
RGPD that provides:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

The indicated infraction is typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the
Next:

"Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22; [...]”.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

The LOPDGDD, in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements considered very
serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

[…] h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

III

In the present case, it is appropriate to analyze the absence of an informative device of the
video surveillance system installed in the PIS-PAS establishment.

The facts proven in this sanctioning procedure show
that the video surveillance system installed in the PIS-PAS establishment lacks
informative device that informs of its existence.

Article 13 of the RGPD —in compliance with the duty of information contained in the
preceding article 12 of the same legal text- regulates the information that must be
be provided when the personal data is obtained from the interested party, a situation that
occurs in cases in which images are captured by a system of
video surveillance. In this sense, article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD establishes that "The
duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood fulfilled by placing an informative device instead
sufficiently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information". Therefore, an informative poster must be placed that at least informs
of the treatment that is carried out, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility and manner of
exercise the rights recognized in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD; without prejudice to
that the rest of the information must be kept available to those affected
stipulated by article 13 of the RGPD.

IV

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5 of the RGPD, art. 58.2 b) provides the
possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what is indicated in the
Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, when deciding the sanction to be imposed, they have taken into account
In particular, consider the following elements.

 That it is a small establishment whose owner is a natural person.

 That there is no recidivism, because there is no evidence of the commission of previous infractions.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the sanction that should be imposed is
WARNING, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 b) of the RGPD, in
in relation to what is stated in Considering 148, cited above.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the aforementioned standard,
a warning sanction.

Likewise, within ONE MONTH from the notification of this act, you must
prove the following:

 That it has proceeded to place the informative device in the areas
video-monitored (at least the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently visible place and that has put
available to customers who may require the appropriate form.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. and REPORT the result
of the actions to the CIUDAD REAL CITY COUNCIL.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-300320

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

