Press Release: No. 3/2022
Magdeburg, November 3, 2022

 
L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

 
The State Commissioner for Data Protection recommends that website operators
local integration of Google Fonts
 
The state representative for data protection has recently received repeated
Questions from website operators who, due to the integration of Google Fonts,
received warning letters from lawyers.
 
The background is a judgment of the Munich Regional Court of January 20, 2022 (Ref.: 3 O
17493/20), according to which a violation of the right to informational self-determination
and general personal rights when accessing a website
the dynamic IP address of the website user automatically and without consent
notification is forwarded to Google. The use of external font services
cannot be based on Art. 6 Para. 1 S.1 lit. f GDPR (legitimate interest)
den, since the use of the fonts is also possible without a connection to
external servers and a transmission of the IP address of the web
site user successes. With this judgement, the website user was awarded a
rate of €100 awarded.
 
Since the state commissioners only comment on data protection issues
legal advice regarding the question of how to deal with such
writing is not possible. Here can only on your own research or
refer to the advice of a lawyer.
 
"In order to integrate external fonts into websites in compliance with data protection regulations, I recommend
the website operators urgently not to download the fonts directly from the server of the respective
gene provider, but to download it first and locally on the
save own server. From there, the fonts can be exported in compliance with data protection regulations
The website can be integrated without connecting to external servers
will be set up,” said Albert Cohaus.
 
 

Press Release: No. 3/2022
Magdeburg, November 3, 2022

 
L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

 
Website operators often use content management to create their websites
ment systems such as e.g. WordPress. To be sure that the system used
does not include external fonts by default and without their knowledge, they can
their pages, among other things, with the help of the developer software contained in all web browsers
check tools for this.
 
The state commissioner advises against using external fonts for the integration
Servers require the consent of the website visitor in accordance with Article 6 Paragraph 1 Letter a of the GDPR
or Article 49 Paragraph 1 Clause 1 Letter a GDPR. For effective consent
would have to provide him with information in accordance with Art. 12, 13 DS-GVO for the
available to know to what extent consent is given. This
Information would also have to include the risks involved in third-country transfers.
In addition, a transmission to an insecure third country pursuant to Art. 49 Para. 1 Sentence
1 lit. a GDPR only for occasional transmissions. Unless on
a website loads fonts from external servers and integrates them,
so that each time the website is accessed, the IP address of the website visitor
transmitted to this server is based on a systematic, repetitive data
data processing can be assumed, so that consent pursuant to Article 49 (1) sentence 1 lit
GDPR is not possible.
 
 
 
 
Imprint:
 
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
 
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
 
Leiterstrasse 9, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803 - 0
Fax: 0391 81803 - 33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

 
 
 

