
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    11/23/2020
                                100th session of the data protection conference on 25./26. November - Kugelmann: Conference is the motor of data protection and is of global importanceThe federal and state governments (DSK) will meet on November 25th and 26th, 2020 in a video conference for the 100th meeting since its inception. The Saxon Data Protection Officer Andreas Schurig will chair the meeting. Topics of the anniversary event will include: the inventory data disclosure procedure for security authorities and intelligence services, the proposed abolition of secure end-to-end encryption in telecommunications, the still pending implementation of the ePrivacy Directive and the processing of personal data in the fight against pandemics be.
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, says: "In the 42 years since the DSK has existed, data protection has gained in importance step by step and sometimes by leaps and bounds: just as the mountains of data have grown, so has the The need to protect the information of citizens has grown. In these 42 years, the DSK has been a motor of data protection in Germany and Europe. With the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data protection officers in Germany and the European Data Protection Committee take on a global pioneering role "In the European association, they defend the right of citizens to informational self-determination. With their clarifications and specifications, they sometimes also get companies in other countries to strive for a higher level of data protection in order to be able to do business in the EU. Not only European law is a model for the world, special n its design by the data protection supervisory authorities can also have a signal character. This makes a significant contribution to protecting civil liberties in the digital age."
Kugelmann emphasizes: "Data protection has arrived in the middle of society: Almost every citizen now has a mobile phone or smartphone that stores personal data and - depending on the app and setting - forwards it. One of the tasks of the DSK is to protect the citizens To further sensitize citizens to data protection and to support them with concrete explanations and assistance. The following applies for the coming years: The stronger the current digitization push, the more data will be collected. And the more information is stored, the more important data protection and the work of the Data protection conference. The 100th session is a good occasion to become aware of this importance."
Schurig says: "In the 42 years of its existence, the DSK has repeatedly dealt with controversial topics, from the 1983 census to handling the personal data of people who tested positive for corona during the current pandemic. It forms a significant counterweight to the ministerial conferences Federal level. We have always been guided by the interest of the persons concerned in being spared state or private interference with their fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights, or, if these were unavoidable, that such interference is at least proportionate."
Since the General Data Protection Regulation came into force on May 25, 2018, one focus of the DSK has been on supporting the German representatives in the European Data Protection Committee. Furthermore, the DSK deals intensively with the digitization of the economy and administration. For example, it advises the IT Planning Council, the central body for cooperation between the federal and state governments in information technology. The DSK usually meets twice a year. It summarizes its findings in non-legally binding resolutions, decisions, guidance and application notes. Its addressees are the legislature, the public as well as private and public officials. Recent examples include the resolution on the digital sovereignty of public administrations (September 22, 2020), the guidance on video conferencing systems (October 23, 2020) or the resolution on the use of thermal imaging cameras or electronic temperature recording in the context of the corona pandemic (September 10, 2020 ).
The DSK is supported by its specialist working groups, e.g. B. the working groups "credit agencies", "employee data protection", "health and social affairs", "justice", "security", "statistics" or "tax administration". For example, the "Technology" working group prepared the above Guide to video conferencing systems. The first DSK took place on December 7, 1978 under the Hessian presidency. The presidency changes annually - usually in alphabetical order of the federal states and the federal government. The LfDI Rheinland Pfalz held the DSK chairmanship in 2019; a two-day session was held in Trier and a second at Hambach Castle in Neustadt. A "Hambach Declaration on Artificial Intelligence" with seven data protection requirements was passed there.
Further information can be found on the DSK homepage. Please send inquiries about interviews and original soundtracks during the 100th session of the Data Protection Conference to: presse(at)datenschutz.rlp.de, Tel: 06131-208-2608. Since the conference is taking place virtually, Professor Kugelmann can be reached in Mainz next week.
                                return
                            



