1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00359/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated August 23, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The
grounds on which the claim is based are "installation of a camera in the window of the
building with a clear orientation towards public space” (folio nº 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Doc. No. 1) that proves the
presence of a device, installed in the window with clear orientation towards
public space and entrance to the building, pointing out that he carries out this conduct in a
usual.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

THIRD: On December 17, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: The database of this Agency consulted on 02/10/20 has not been
received any allegation in relation to the facts described.

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 08/23/19, a claim was received from the complainant through the
which transfers as the main fact the following "installation of a camera in the window-
part of the building with a clear orientation towards public space” (folio nº 1).
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

Provide documentary evidence (doc. No. 1) that proves the presence of a
device, installed in the window with clear orientation towards public space and
entrance of the building, pointing out that he performs this behavior on a regular basis.

Second. It is identified as the main responsible Mr. B.B.B., a resident of the in-
piece of furniture.

Third. The evidence provided allows verifying the orientation of the camera towards the
without just cause, affecting the residents of the property who are intimidated
two for the same without just cause, allowing to induce that an image of
public space.

Fourth. The defendant has not made any allegation to the requirement of this
ganism

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 08/23/19 is examined by me-
of which the "installation of a camera in the window of the building with
clear orientation towards public space” (folio nº 1).

The content of article 5.1 letter c) RGPD is considered affected, which provides: "The
personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

It should be remembered that cameras installed by individuals cannot be
oriented towards public space, affecting the privacy of third parties, who are intimidated
measured by these types of devices.

Individuals cannot install/uninstall cameras at will from their vi-
housing oriented towards public space, being a disproportionate measure, contra-
would comply with the regulations in force, this being a competence of the Forces and Corps of
State Security.

Surveillance cameras may make recordings limited to what is necessary.
ary, the perimeter and some reasonable points, applying the principle of proportionality.
that is, only the truly pertinent areas will be recorded for
the desired end.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

Article 22 LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides: "They may only cap-
images of the public highway to the extent that it is essential for the fi-
purpose mentioned in the previous section.

Likewise, it is recalled that this type of behavior may have
sequences in other areas of law, by creating an alarm situation in
neighbors close to their home who feel affected in their privacy, assume
I am afraid of their logical consequences.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the respondent has installed some type of
Recording site with visible orientation towards the public road and the entrance of the building
of the community of owners, without just cause.

The evidence provided allows us to verify the presence of the camera, the intention
tionality in the installation as well as the orientation without justified cause towards space
public, assuming the "inconvenience" to third parties.

The known facts could constitute an infraction, attributable to the

claimed, for violation of the content of art. 5.1 c) GDPR.

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the fiscal year
previous financial statement, opting for the highest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

In the present case, when motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

following:

-the nature of the infraction, since it is affecting the rights of third parties
have been intimidated by them, obtaining images of public roads and exclusive of
third parties (art. 83.2 a) RGPD).

-The intentionality or negligence of the conduct, by widely capturing the
public and areas of adjacent property, without just cause, with the modern logics
injuries to nearby neighbors, behavior that repeats from time to time without just cause
da (art. 83.2 b) RGPD).

So, based on the foregoing, taking into account the lack of infractions
previous tions for the same facts, as well as that it is an individual who does not
has made an allegation in this regard, an economic sanction is imposed on the scale
lowest of this type of sanctions, encrypting the same in the amount of €2,000 (Two
A thousand euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

The art. 78.1 LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides: The sanctions imposed
put into application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law prescribe
in the following terms:

a) Sanctions for an amount equal to or less than 40,000 euros, prescribe in the

term of one year.

All this without prejudice to proving the immediate withdrawal of the camera from its action.
current place of location, whatever its nature, proving such
extreme by means of evidence admissible in law (eg photograph with date and
hour).

If the behavior is repeated, it is recommended to inform
of the facts of the local Police, in order to take photographs (date and time) and
investigation of the alleged perpetrator of the events.

Likewise, you are informed that not meeting the requirements of this organization
mo, may be sanctioned for breaching art. 73 letter o) LOPDGDD, giving rise
to a new sanctioning procedure, which is brought to its attention for the purposes
appropriate legal cough.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE Don B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €2,000 (Two Thousand
euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. and REPORT the result
of the actions to the complainant Mr. A.A.A.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure Co-
of the Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the term of payment
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection Policy at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it
will proceed to its collection in executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-
CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following
Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPA-
CAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the city
tada Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
certifying the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. Yes
the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
nistrative within two months from the day following the notification of the pre-
This resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

