
Representatives of the Personal Data Protection Agency Zdravko Vukić, Director, Igor Vulje, Deputy Director, Marko Trošelj, Senior Advisor and Siniša Kovačić, Senior Information Security Advisor held a teleconference meeting on July 20, 2020 with representatives of the Ministry of Health and APIS IT d.o.o. related to the working version of the mobile application STOP COVID-19.
During the meeting, representatives of the Ministry of Health and Society APIS IT d.o.o. presented the purpose of the mobile application STOP COVID-19, as well as its functionality and introduced the representatives of the Agency with the technical characteristics of the application and the entire system.
The purpose of the STOP COVID-19 application is to inform the user of the application that he or her mobile device on which the application is installed and activated was in epidemiologically relevant contact with another person or her mobile device on which the same application is also activated. confirmed COVID-19 disease and continue to provide an assessment of the risk of transmission of the infection as well as provide access to instructions to the user on how to act in cases of suspected SARS-CoV-2 virus infection. The application would also allow a person suffering from COVID-19 to anonymously inform other users of the application with whom she may have been in contact about possible exposure to COVID-19, all with the consent of the user and his control over the work / functionality of the application and the anonymity of all involved users of the application.
During the meeting, the representatives of the Agency were actively with the representatives of the Ministry of Health and the company APIS IT d.o.o. analyzed the elements of technical functionality in order to assess the compliance of the mobile application with the General Data Protection Regulation, as well as guidelines and opinions of the European Data Protection Board on the use of location data and interoperability of contact monitoring tools in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Also, further cooperation was agreed, ie. continuation of activities between the Ministry of Health and the Agency related to the further development of the mobile application STOP COVID-19 and monitoring, ie. further verify the compliance of the active and planned functionalities of the application with the General Data Protection Regulation, as well as the guidelines and opinions of the European Data Protection Board on the use of location data and the interoperability of contact monitoring tools in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.
