THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 December 07, 2021

 Exhibition and series of events “Sports Heroes –

remembered or forgotten?”

Wednesday, December 8th, 6 p.m.: Online discussion about the anti-
Doping system and civil liberties

 
Can the anti-doping system still be saved? In the course of the anti
In the fight against doping, competitive athletes are transparent –
almost any personal information you enter price for
computerized control system that – how
youngest
Reports by the sports journalist Hajo Seppelt show - like this
manipulation is that any basis for this
control system appears to be obsolete.
 
On Wednesday, December 8th, 6 p.m., the sports journalist Hajo will discuss
Seppelt, NADA board member Dr. Lars Mortsiefer, the German
Champion in the BMX race Philip Schaub, the weightlifter and
Olympian
the
State Representative Dr. Stefan Brink on the anti-doping
System, how it works, how young athletes use it
deal with permanent pressure and what solutions there are
can, in order to control future doping abuse and
at the same time to better protect the rights of the athletes.
 
The sports journalist Hajo Seppelt
the
most renowned sports journalists in the country and is an expert

cobbler

sabine

heard

and

to

- 2 -

of the anti-doping system. Lars, who holds a doctorate in law
Mortsiefer has been on the board of the National Anti-
Doping agency, was previously data protection coordinator at the
NADA and has practical experience in dealing with
personal data. Philip Schaub from Stuttgart is
German champion in the BMX race and reigning vice
World champion in the BMX pump track. Since 2008 BMX-Race is at
where several drivers race against each other,
Olympic. The 30-year-old Sabine Kusterer repeatedly presented in the
Weightlifting German records and took this too
Participated in the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games again this year. she
actively supports NADA's anti-doping campaigns
Within the framework of the promotion of young talent of the Federal Association
German weightlifter.
 
Meeting:
ADAMS and liberties
Conversation about the anti-doping system with LfDI Dr. Stefan
Brink, sports journalist Hajo Seppelt, NADA board member
dr Lars Mortsiefer, German Champion in the BMX Race Philip
Schaub and Olympic participant Sabine Kusterer
 
Time: Wednesday, December 8th, 2021, 6 p.m
Location: Online
Access link: The access link is on the homepage of the
state representative: https://www.baden-
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/online-diskussion-am-8-12-anti-doping-
freedom rights/

 

Further information:

Further information on the exhibition and the events is available
on the website of the state representative:
https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-veranstaltung-
2021-600/

The exhibition and the accompanying events honor the successes
of partly forgotten sports heroes and question the type and
way they are remembered. At the same time, the LfDI sets itself as
Supervisory authority that is responsible for the interests of freedom and civil rights
strong
sports history,

inner german

power,

the

With

- 3 -

personal rights
from competitive athletes and current ones
developments in the field of sports. The state representative leaves
the question of how much freedom top athletes have to give up,
to follow their passion.

Further information on the exhibition and the events is available
on the website of the state representative:
https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-veranstaltung-
2021-600/

 

 
 

