11/1

 File No.: EXP202210993

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 31, 2022, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, a resolution was issued in the sanctioning procedure of the
file number EXP202102834, filed against A.A.A. (hereinafter, the part
claimed). In said resolution, in addition to sanctioning with the imposition of a fine,
required the adoption of the following measures:

SECOND: TO ORDER A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1 that, by virtue of article 58.2.d)
of the GDPR, within ten business days, take the following measures:
- Evidence of having proceeded to remove the camera from the current location, or to
reorientation of it towards its particular area or that does not imply a recruitment
disproportionate.

SECOND: The resolution of the disciplinary procedure was notified
reliably on April 20, 2022 to the claimed party, granting him the
period of 10 business days for the adoption of the imposed measures, as stated
certified in the file.

THIRD: After the indicated period has elapsed without this Agency having
received any writing on the measures implemented by the claimed party, and
having received on June 16 and 17, 2022 two letters, with numbers of
register REGAGE22e00024816454 and REGAGE22e00024995857, in which the part
complainant communicated that the non-compliance persisted, they proceeded to request
back to the claimed party so that, within ten business days, they can prove
before this Agency to have adopted the appropriate corrective measures, in attention to the
agreed in the aforementioned Resolution.

This requirement was collected by the person in charge on July 1, 2022, as
it appears in the postal certificate that is in the file.

FOURTH: On July 19, 2022, the claimant, in writing with the number of
registration REGAGE22e00031320587, again refers to non-compliance with the measures
imposed on the defendant.

FIFTH: A letter is received from the claimed party with registration number
REGAGE22e00031443884 dated July 20, 2022, in which it indicates that the
camera adapts to current regulations and attached as evidence the sentence handed down
on the procedure of minor crimes 208/2021 of the Court of First Instance and
Instruction nº1 of San Fernando.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

The sentence provided is favorable to the party claimed for not concurring the
legally required elements to appreciate the existence of the minor crime of
duress. The non-compliance of the elements of the type of the minor crime of coercion
does not affect the concurrence of the elements of the administrative offense
sanctioned by this Agency, from which the imposition of measures derives. For other
part, regarding the proven facts of the aforementioned sentence, it is not indicated that
the camera conforms to the regulations in question, but during the process it has not been
proven otherwise. In addition, it is pointed out that the camera focuses on the house of the
complaining party.

Thus, in said judgment the following is stipulated:

"In the present case, the placement of the camera by the defendant does not prevent the
the complainant carry out her activities, since the installation of the security camera
security, recognized by both parties to the lawsuit, does not prevent you from accessing or leaving your
housing, carry out tasks within it or carry out activities abroad. In
In this sense, it should be noted that the complainant does not mention that the camera has
limited the normal development of his life, but rather that the complainant is aware of
people entering or leaving your home. This fact, without prejudice
that it may bother you that a camera focuses on your home, it does not hinder the
exercise of the complainant's right to liberty, therefore one of the
the elements of the legally required criminal type.
Furthermore, the illegal nature of the security camera has not been
proven in the act of trial, given that the defendant proclaims the legality of the
installation of the aforementioned camera, and the complainant must be the one to provide
evidence that undermines it. In this sense, Ms. B.B.B. has limited itself to exposing
the existence of the camera providing images recorded by said camera, without
provide evidence that proves that its placement does not meet the
legal requirements."

Therefore, not considering this Agency that the adequacy to the
data protection regulations, it is agreed to request the party again
claimed so that, within ten business days, prove to this Agency the
compliance with the imposed measures.

This new requirement was collected by the person in charge on September 21
of 2022, as stated in the Postal certificate that is in the file. About
this new requirement, no response has been received.

SIXTH: On September 15, 2022, the claimant, in a new letter with
registration number REGAGE22e00040411959, report the breach again
by the party claimed of the measures imposed.

SEVENTH: Against the aforementioned resolution, in which the adoption of measures is required,
There is no ordinary administrative appeal due to the expiration of the deadlines
established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not expressed his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

EIGHTH: On November 7, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 58.2 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.6 of the GDPR Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR).

NINTH: The aforementioned initiation agreement was collected by the claimed party on the 25th
November 2022, as stated in the acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

TENTH: Dated December 1, 2022 and entry registration number
REGAGE22e00055577403, the claimed party submits a written statement of allegations to the
initiation agreement, in which he states that the farm is his property, having
left a part for the enjoyment of the claiming party that has a requirement of
eviction, has been sanctioned by the San Fernando City Council and reported to
Tax Treasury for tax fraud.

It also declares that the security camera has been installed by the company
Prosegur and is placed in compliance with legal requirements. Likewise, I don't know
It's not a public road, but it's all a private estate where only the
family unit of the claimed party, the claimant not residing therein.
Along with said letter, provide DNI, certificate of collective registration and note
simple of the San Fernando Property Registry.

ELEVENTH: On December 20, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
impose a fine of 600.00 euros on the claimed party.

TWELFTH: Dated February 23, 2023 and entry registration number
REGAGE23e00011309312, the defendant submits a written statement of allegations to the
motion for a resolution stating that the installation of the security camera
Video surveillance has been adjusted at all times to what is determined in the guide of this
Agency on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes.

He affirms that the video surveillance camera is installed on the outside of a facade
of a property in which images of the exterior could be captured and that were applied
the provisions of the GDPR in the terms described in the aforementioned guide, regarding the
Installation of video surveillance systems in single-family homes.

It goes on to point out that when the cameras are connected to the central
reception of alarms, said services can only be provided by companies of
private security that meet the requirements established in Law 5/2014, of 4
April, holding these responsible status. Prosegur proceeded to
installation of the video surveillance system and, in the place of access to the area of
video surveillance and in a visible way, an informative sign was placed that access to
a video surveillance area.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

It indicates that the origin of the complaint lies in disagreements with the owner
of the adjoining farm, which would be the reason for the initiation of this file, having
used channels of an administrative or coercive nature for shady, spurious and
malicious.

On the other hand, it asserts that the sanction proposal has not entered into evaluation in any
moment if the initiation of this disciplinary procedure was justified in
purity and that the principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an infraction
administration when proof of charge has not been obtained and verified
accrediting the facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the
same as the alleged offender.

In the same way, that the presumption of innocence must govern the
disciplinary system and that the exercise of the ius puniendi is conditioned to a
contradictory procedure in which one's own positions can be defended.
Ensures that there is a lack of justification in the initiation of the file
sanctioning, since with the contract provided it would already comply with the standards and
requirements of the GDPR, regarding the principles of liability and proportionality,
there being no illegal or uncontrolled installation of security elements in the
property, which would deny and distort the tendentious and
malicious.

Finally, it appreciates a lack of proportionality in the proposed sanction,
considering it disproportionate and inadmissible, which would mean its nullity, and requires
the sufficient motivation of the reasons on the basis of which the sanction is graduated,
explaining the concurrent circumstances that occurred in the specific case.

The following documents are provided, as stated in the allegations document:

1. Movistar Prosegur contract and mandatory installation certificates for the camera
of video surveillance.
2. Photographs of the signs indicating the installation of security cameras.
video surveillance and installer security company.
3. Photographs of the visual range of the video surveillance camera
4. Copy of the simple note of the Property Registry 2 of San Fernando, on the
farm XXXX.
5. Copy of the simple note of the Property Registry 2 of San Fernando, on the
farm XXXX.
6. Copy of the Assignment contract of the Property for the use of said plot for the
keep riding
7. Copy of the Judgment of the Court of First Instance and Instruction No. 1 of San
Fernando acquitting Don C.C.C. of the crime of coercion. for a complaint
filed by his sister B.B.B. within "bad neighbor relations".
8. Copy of the Municipal Urbanism Management-Planning and Management Service
Urban Planning, on the geolocation of the farm where the service of
video surveillance. And where the adjoining with the B.B.B. farm is evident.
9. Photographs where it is evident that the place subject to video surveillance reaches
road owned by Don C.C.C.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST:
 The resolution of the disciplinary procedure of the file
EXP202102834 and the requirements for compliance with the measures imposed
in the same indicated in the antecedents first, second, third and fifth were
notified by postal mail, in accordance with the provisions of article 42 of the
LPACAP. Said resolution became firm and executive due to the expiration of the terms
provided for the filing of the resources indicated therein.

SECOND: The claimed party did not send a response to this Agency that accredits the
compliance with the measures imposed, namely: the removal of the camera from the place
current, or to the reorientation of this towards its particular area or that does not suppose a
disproportionate uptake.

THIRD: Notification of the agreement to start this procedure
penalty was carried out by postal mail, being collected by the claimed party with
dated November 25, 2022.

FOURTH: The claimed party has presented allegations to the agreement to initiate this
disciplinary procedure as stated in the tenth antecedent.

FIFTH: The notification of the proposed resolution was received by the party
Claimed on January 19, 2023.

SIXTH: The claimed party has submitted allegations to the proposed resolution
of this disciplinary procedure included in the twelfth precedent.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/6

Arguments to the Commencement Agreement

II

In response to the allegations to the agreement to initiate this file
submitted by the claimed party, the following should be noted.

In the judgment of the Court of First Instance and Instruction No. 1 of San Fernando
the installation of the security camera and the recording of all the
people who circulate in the area where it focuses on the following terms:

"However, and despite the aforementioned bad relationship between the parties to the lawsuit,
the other two guiding requirements concur, since the complainant recounts in a
The facts in the report and in court are similar, being a credible account and
congruent, that D.C.C.C. have placed a surveillance camera and have
Knowledge of the people who travel through the lane and of those who access the
House of Mrs. B.B.B..

The images in the records, which have not been challenged by the party
contrary, they accredit the placement of the camera and the images recorded by it.

In the trial, the defendant's statement has been used as exculpatory evidence.

D.C.C.C. acknowledged that he had installed a security camera, which has been
installed by the Prosegur company and is placed in compliance with legal requirements.
Likewise, it admits that the aforementioned camera records the people who circulate through the
lane.

This acknowledgment of the facts in the act of hearing ratifies what was stated by the
complainant, regarding the installation of the camera and the recording of the people
who pass through the lane.

For this reason, and given that the declarations of the parties to the process coincide,
the installation of the security camera and the recording of all the
people who circulate in the area where it focuses.”

Likewise, it does not provide any document that distorts the facts proven in the
resolution of the disciplinary procedure EXP202102834 where the claimed party
he had already claimed that the lane was his property. Specifically, it collected
following:

"FIRST: Installation of a video surveillance camera outside the property
located at ***ADDRESS.1, which could be capturing images of a driveway
public transit. The claimant provides several screenshots in which
he observes the access road and the entrance door to his farm, appearing in the
same identifiable persons.

SECOND: The defendant states that the video surveillance camera is oriented
only towards the ceded farm and a road, but that lane is his property.
He provides a photograph in which it can be seen that the camera captures part of the farm and the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

path that claims to be private, but after analyzing the documentation it cannot be
accurately determine that that portion of land is within your property.”

The informative notes of domain and loads presented include the description of the
farm 3725 and 3694 of San Fernando, where there are several owners with different
percentages of full ownership of the property, including an S.L. and an S.L.U., for which
it is not possible to clearly identify whether the lane that the complained party claims to be from
your property does not belong to any of the other owners, nor is it
You can determine the specific farm to which it belongs with the data provided.

Likewise, the fact that the claimant is not registered on the farm, does not
prevents him from eventually residing, so it could not be considered
tested in this way that the aforementioned lane that focuses the camera is of its
property.

On the other hand, against the decision handed down in the sanctioning procedure of the
file number EXP202102834, in which the adoption of measures is required, not
There is no ordinary administrative appeal due to the expiration of the deadlines
established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not expressed his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution. Therefore, the aforementioned resolution is final because it was consented to by the
expiration of the terms, and therefore fully enforceable.

Allegations to the Resolution Proposal

II

In response to the allegations presented by the defendant to the proposal for
resolution, the following should be noted.

Hiring an external video surveillance service, installing cameras
by a third party or contracting a security or maintenance service does not exempt
to the claimed party of compliance with data protection regulations, not
constituting sufficient proof of compliance in this matter the contracting of
these services, and must also be indicated in relation to the placement of the poster,
that it is not the object of this procedure to comply with the provisions
regarding the right to information through the installation of an informative badge.

Likewise, it should be noted that procedures of a sanctioning nature are initiated
always ex officio, as stipulated in article 63 of law 39/2015 of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP).
Therefore, both the disciplinary procedure of file number
EXP202102834 where the measures were imposed, such as the current procedure
filed for non-compliance with the same, have been substantiated for violations of
data protection regulations, apart from, as claimed by the defendant, other
disagreements with the owner of the adjoining property outside the powers of
this Agency.

Regarding the allegation that the sanction proposal has not entered into an assessment of whether
the initiation of the disciplinary procedure was justified, as well as that it has not been

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

evidence obtained and verified, it is emphasized that the procedure
current sanctioner brings his cause in the breach of an executive resolution,
even after being required to do so repeatedly. The start agreement
this sanctioning procedure specified the facts that motivated the initiation, its
possible qualification and the sanction that may correspond, as well as the rest of the
information that is regulated in article 64 of the LPACAP.

In the same way, the documents and images provided, many of which are already
had been presented previously, do not justify that the
removing the camera from the current location, or reorienting the camera to your area
particular or that does not imply a disproportionate capture, but that they are maintained,
therefore, it can be concluded that the measures ordered in the
resolution of file EXP202102834.

In short, the party claimed with these arguments is defending the
conformity of the video surveillance installation in its current terms, discussing
the grounds for which the infraction was declared and the sanction was imposed in the
procedure EXP202102834. As it is an executive resolution, it is not allowed
that the person in charge now raises reasons for opposition related to the validity of the
itself, arguments that should have been raised against said resolution in the
deadlines set for it. On the other hand, no appeal for reversal was filed or
went to court once the decision was correctly notified
disciplinary action, acquiring firmness and proceeding therefore its execution in the
terms set forth therein.

Finally, when deciding the amount of this fine, the individual case has been assessed
so that it is proportionate, and at the same time effective and dissuasive,
taking into account the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, as provided
in article 83 of the GDPR. The infraction that motivates this procedure is
typified in section 6 of said article, attributing the maximum limit of 20
million euros provided by the GDPR for the most serious infringements. By
For its part, the LOPDGDD qualifies said infraction as very serious, in order to grant it
the maximum prescription period (3 years). The legislator's options are linked to
the fact that compliance with the resolutions of the control authorities
It represents a basic foundation for the control function of the application of the
Regulation and to enforce it, through the effective exercise of the powers
corrective measures provided in article 58.

IV.

breached obligation

Based on the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed has breached the resolution of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
in relation to the measures imposed on him.

Therefore, the facts described in the "Proven Facts" section are considered
constituting an infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of the
Article 58.2.d) of the GDPR, which provides the following:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

"2. Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers
indicated below:
(…)
d) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Classification and classification of the offense

V

This infringement is typified in article 83.6 of the GDPR, which stipulates the following:

"Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority under article
58, section 2, will be penalized in accordance with section 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the alleged infringement
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
the following behavior is very serious:

"m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of
competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

SAW

sanction imputed

In accordance with the facts exposed, it is considered that it is appropriate to impute a sanction to
the party claimed for the violation of article 58.2 of the GDPR typified in the
article 83.6 of the GDPR. The sanction to be imposed is a fine.
administrative.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR. In
Consequently, the sanction to be imposed must be graduated according to the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the GDPR, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is appreciated that no mitigating or aggravating circumstance is applicable.

VII

adoption of measures

This Agency agrees to impose on the controller the adoption of appropriate measures
to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this act, in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each authority of
control may “order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period…”.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article 58.2
of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.6 of the GDPR, a fine of 600.00 euros
(SIX HUNDRED euros).

SECOND: REQUIRE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, so that within 10 days
working days from the notification of this Resolution proves to the Agency the
adoption of the measures ordered in the resolution of the disciplinary procedure
of the file number EXP202102834, that is, that proves having proceeded to the
removing the camera from the current location, or reorienting the camera to your area
particular or that does not imply a disproportionate recruitment.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A..

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted IBAN number: ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code:
XXXXXXXXXXXX), opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will proceed to its
collection in executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

