OFFICE FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Lt. Col. Sochora 27, 170 00 Prague 7
tel .: 234 665 111, fax: 234 665 444
posta@uoou.cz, www.uoou.cz

* UOOUX00CQZDF *

 
 
 
Ref. UOOU-07100 / 13-70

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DECISION

 
Chairwoman of the Office for Personal Data Protection as an appellate body competent pursuant to § 2, § 29
and Section 32 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Personal Data and on the Amendment of Certain Acts
and pursuant to § 10 and § 152 para. 2 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Procedure Code, decided on 27 September 2018
according to the provisions of § 152 par. 6 let. a), § 152 par. 5 and § 90 par. 1 let. a) of the Act
No. 500/2004 Coll. thus:
 
Decision of the Office for Personal Data Protection ref. UOOU-07100 / 13-47 of 29 October 2013
is canceled and the proceedings are stopped.
 

 

Justification

 

The basis for initiating administrative proceedings for suspected misdemeanor conducted
against the accused,

(hereinafter referred to as the “accused”), the complaints were sent to the Office for Protection
personal data (hereinafter "the Office") and its own findings. The notice of initiation was then
accused delivered on August 30, 2013.
  
Subsequently, on the basis of the evidence provided and the collected file material issued
administrative body of the first instance of the Office decision no. UOOU-07100 / 13-47 of

, according to which the accused committed a misdemeanor pursuant to § 44 para. c) of the Act
No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data and on the amendment of certain acts by:
through a website located at an internet address
 
witnesses and protocols
she left
on the interrogation of the accused from the file of the Police of the Czech Republic

publish copies of the minutes of the hearings

 which contained the name, surname and full text of the testimony of the witnesses and the accused
made before the prosecuting authorities. The police of the Czech Republic were then to be
the administrator of the relevant personal data in the sense of § 4 letter j) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., whereby
the defendant obtained those documents in connection with the defendant's position in the present case
criminal proceedings. Thus, the accused was to violate the duty of confidentiality laid down in § 15
paragraph 1 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., and therefore a fine of CZK 16,000 was imposed on it.
 

1/6



That decision of the administrative authority of the first instance was (with the exception of the addition of the date
birth and residence of the accused) confirmed by the decision of the President of the Office ref.

Chairman of the Office, namely by the judgment of the Municipal Court in Prague ref.

. Subsequently, the action brought against that decision was also dismissed
of

.

that

that

 of

 
However, the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court ref.
('the judgment') issued on the basis of the cassation appeal of the accused set aside the judgment
Municipal Court in Prague Ref.
, so the decision
Chairman of the Office Ref.
and returned the matter to the Office for another
management. The Supreme Administrative Court stated in the judgment that the facts of the case are not in dispute. The same
thus agreed that the protocols on the statements of persons obtained from the Police of the Czech Republic
and published on the web
should be considered as documents containing personal
data, but qualified the operation of the site as personal processing
data in the sense of § 4 letter e) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. She was accused, as the Supreme found
administrative court with reference to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the Lindqvist case
v. Sweden, C-101/01, in the position of administrator according to § 4 letter j) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. and covered
therefore the relevant obligations. However, these do not include the obligation of confidentiality pursuant to Section 15
Act No. 101/2000 Coll. The defendant's conduct was therefore incorrectly qualified.
 
The Supreme Administrative Court therefore concluded that it was necessary to reassess how the accused received
their rights and obligations of the administrator arising from Act No. 101/2000 Coll. In that
In this context, a proportionality test should also be carried out and the right of the accused to be considered
for the processing of the personal data in question by their publication prevailed over protection
privacy of the persons about whom personal data have been disclosed. Next, you need to consider the extent to which it was
necessary to fulfill the intended purpose of publishing personal data to the extent done
accused. Nor can it be overlooked that the regulation entered into force on 25 May 2018
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
persons in connection with the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data
and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (General Data Protection Regulation). Criminality
The conduct of the accused must therefore be assessed in the light of more favorable legislation
accused. This opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court is the Office according to § 78 par. 5 of the Act
No. 150/2002 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, bound.

 

To that end, the appellate body, having thoroughly acquainted itself with the file, considers that
It is necessary, first of all, to state that the accused committed the act in question before
effectiveness of the General Data Protection Regulation and the Office in previous proceedings
conducted against the accused had to be based primarily on Act No. 101/2000 Coll. and the law
No. 200/1990 Coll., on misdemeanors. The appellate body therefore, in accordance with the instructions of the Supreme
administrative court, first addressed the question of the law under which this conduct
to judge. In this context, the Appellate Body was fully aware of the constitutional principles
enshrined in Article 40 (6) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which he
i Supreme Administrative Court and according to which the criminality of the offense is assessed and the sentence is imposed according to
the law in force at the time the act was committed, a later law applicable if
it is more favorable for offenders. Because, due to the fact that the general regulation
on the protection of personal data allows, in contrast to Act No. 101/2000 Coll. imposition of a sanction of up to
20,000,000 EUR, or 4% of worldwide annual turnover, is more favorable for the accused

2/6



previous legislation, the Appellate Body reviewed the conduct accused under the previous one
legislation.
 
The appellate body also followed the findings of the Supreme Administrative Court, which in the judgment
found that the accused is in the position of personal data controller and to this extent at her hearing
apply the rights and obligations arising from effective data protection rules. Therefore
the appellate body primarily examined whether the processing of personal data in question, resp.
publication, which according to the definition given in § 4 letter e) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. once
from the forms of processing, one of the legal titles according to Act No. 101/2000 Coll. At the same time, Mon.
Considering all the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Body came to the conclusion that the issue existed
or the absence of a legal title is of a fundamental nature in this case. From this
therefore, from the very nature of the matter, it no longer made sense to deal with the fulfillment of other obligations
administrator stipulated by Act No. 101/2000 Coll., as any violations of these
obligations would have to be absolutely marginal and trivial in this context
character.
      
Given that the accused did not have the consent of the data subjects, it is possible that
as the appellate body found, only the legal title resulting from the provisions of § 5 para. E)
Act No. 101/2000 Coll., according to which data may be processed even without the consent of the subject (and thus
and publish) personal data if this is "necessary for the protection of the rights and legally protected interests
the administrator, the beneficiary or other persons concerned; however, such processing of personal data must not be
contrary to the data subject's right to protection of his private and personal life. '
However, the degree of necessity for the protection of rights must be considered on the one hand
and the legitimate interests of the administrator, in relation to the degree of breach of private or
personal life of the data subjects concerned, on the other hand.
 
In this context, however, it should also be recalled that the handling of personal data within the
criminal proceedings, which are also the case here, special provisions also apply
Act No. 141/1961 Coll., Criminal Procedure Code (hereinafter referred to as the “Criminal Procedure Code”). According to the provisions of § 8a paragraph 1 sentence
second of the Criminal Procedure Code "may not be published in the preparatory proceedings
the identity of the person prosecuted, the injured party, the person concerned and the witness'.
At this point, therefore, it must be reiterated that the Supreme Administrative Court in its judgment clearly
expressed his view that
are persons in criminal proceedings in the protocols
identified in an unmistakable manner. At the same time, according to § 8b par. 1
of the Criminal Procedure Code, "persons to whom law enforcement authorities have been provided,
to which the prohibition of publication pursuant to Section 8a (1), second sentence, applies, for the purposes of criminal proceedings
or to exercise the rights or fulfill the obligations stipulated by a special legal regulation, is
they may not provide it to anyone unless it is necessary for that purpose.
These people must be informed of this. ”However, this exception primarily concerns others
provision, not publication, of information which is already prohibited by the provisions of § 8a
of the Criminal Procedure Code. However, exceptions to the ban on disclosure are set out in § 8d
of the Criminal Procedure Code, according to which “information subject to the prohibition of publication pursuant to § 8a to
8c, may be disclosed to the extent necessary for the purpose of searching for persons, in order to achieve the purpose
criminal proceedings or if permitted by this law. That information may also be published,
if justified by the public interest, if it outweighs the right to privacy
the persons concerned; in doing so, special care must be taken to protect the interests of persons under the age of 18. "
 

3/6



It can therefore be stated that the conditions for publication according to § 5 par. e) of the Act
No. 101/2000 Coll. in principle, they correspond to the conditions laid down in the Criminal Procedure Code, however
in both cases, two conflicting rights must be weighed. Specifically in this case,
the accused, who is a politician, declared her right to a fair defense before the public
in criminal proceedings concerning
taking its launch
was publicized. At the same time, however, it is clear that the defendant's actions interfered with
the private sphere of the persons concerned.
 
The appellate body therefore carried out the proportionality test in question. He also mentioned the Supreme
administrative court, referring to its judgment no. 1 As 113 / 2012-133 of
February 25, 2015 in the case
and on the decision of the Municipal Court in Prague ref. 5 A 138 / 2014-38-
45 of 2 October 2017. In this context, however, the Appellate Body found that the test criteria
established by the two latter judgments are, despite completely different verbal ones
statement, essentially identical in content. However, this case is out of fact
point of view, a much closer test described by the decision of the Municipal Court in Prague ref. 5 A
138 / 2014-38-45 of 2 October 2017, as it deals with the conflict of the right to information with the law
privacy and a fair trial in the context of ongoing criminal proceedings
(publication of information about him), while the judgment ref. 1 As 113 / 2012-133 of 25 February
2015 in the case
concerned a much differenter issue of public monitoring
space.
 
For these reasons, the appellate body primarily took into account the decision of the Municipal
Court in Prague Ref. 5 A 138 / 2014-38-45 of 2 October 2017. According to him, it is necessary to proceed
from the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights No 56925/08 in the case of Bedat v. Switzerland,
on March 29, 2016. As stated by the Municipal Court in Prague, the last-mentioned judgment
The factors formulated by the European Court of Human Rights are intended to find application in
conflict disclosure information and the right to privacy and a fair trial in context
ongoing criminal proceedings. Specifically, these are the following factors:
(a) the content of the information published and the manner in which it was published, it is necessary to examine whether:
the information was published in a serious way or, conversely, whether it sought to evoke rather
sensation, or to describe a person in a purely negative way;
(b) how the disclosure of the information contributed to the public interest debate, or whether it was intended only
satisfying public curiosity;
(c) the impact of the information disclosed on criminal proceedings, whether the principle has been violated
the presumption of innocence or whether the impartiality of the court has not been affected;
(d) the seriousness of the invasion of privacy of the person concerned.
 
In this context, the Appellate Body found above all that the information in question was
published in a serious manner,
since the method of publication was very factual, by no means
scandalizing. Specifically, only the minutes of the interrogations were published
witnesses
and one accused, on the official website without any comment
including defamating.
 
With regard to the second criterion, the Appellate Body found that the publication contributed to the public debate
of interest. This was a media-watched case concerning the efficiency of spending
public funds (allegations of abuse of power and breach of duty in the administration of a foreign
property) at the Ministry
performed a function

. According to the indictment, the ministry

where accused in the period from

led by the accused in

to

4/6



  concluded an unfavorable contract for the state at

with company
. According to an expert opinion, the price of several billion CZK was
extremely processed by the Police of the Czech Republic. The state had
indictments suffer a loss of hundreds of millions of CZK. The public interest must then be perceived
in the context of the whole situation in order to clarify the true state of affairs, as the company 's trust in
State authorities (and ministries are the central administrative body of the state) is for the functioning
democratic rule of law.
 
As regards the third criterion, the Appellate Body first recalls that the defendant in its
In several statements, it pointed out that the objective pursued was its public defense, namely:
due to the extensive media coverage of the case. However, the decision on guilt is the task of the independent
and impartial tribunal. The accused should therefore defend herself in the relevant proceedings. This would
in principle indicated that the relevant criterion was not met. But here it is necessary to recall the time
factor. Formation of the former
  whereas ke
the publication of the protocols on the denunciations took place
  The indictment was filed in court
however, the District Court for Prague 6 returned the case for further investigation. This
In
the decision was annulled by the Municipal Court in Prague. The main make-up in the purchase case
started
in
  and the case has not yet been closed. Thus, for about 6 years, the accused was de facto
had no other means of public defense and, moreover, the ongoing criminal proceedings resulted
interruption of its political activities. In view of this, the Appellate Body found that despite
a degree of non-compliance with the criterion in question, the defendant's conduct in that regard lacks
social danger. In addition, it should be recalled that within the proper
proceedings before a court, which according to § 2 par. 10 of the Criminal Procedure Code is public, with the exception of legal exceptions,
witnesses would be interrogated, resp. concerned, or the protocols in question would be
read. Restrictions no longer apply to the provision of information concerning court proceedings
relating to the disclosure of personal data pursuant to Section 8a of the Criminal Procedure Code, concerning the preparatory phase
criminal proceedings and the information in question should be considered as lawfully published.

namely, it was raised in

  in September

As regards the last of the criteria, the Appellate Body found that copies of the minutes in question
published by the accused through
on its official website
and retained the names of the persons concerned for each statement. So she is accused
sought to keep the personal data disclosed to a minimum, which concerned in particular
performance of work activities. The interference with the purely private sphere of the persons concerned is therefore not significant.
 
Overall, therefore, it can be stated that the target of the accused was of considerable importance and is necessary
considered legitimate. At the same time, the way the information was published was not scandalous, but
it took place in a serious way in the context of informing an important public issue
of interest. Likewise, for the reasons set out above, the Appellate Body found that disclosure
the statements in question were not a disproportionate interference with the privacy of those persons, as they were
outweighed by the legitimate interest pursued. If the data subjects concerned disclosure
they saw the statements as a strong intrusion on their privacy, nothing preventing them from claiming their own
rights in civil proceedings by an action for the protection of personality. On the other hand, the publication
could have some negative impact on ongoing criminal proceedings, but social harm
this has already passed, taking into account the time factor.
 
In the light of all the above, the Appellate Body ruled as indicated
in the operative part of this decision. In this context, however, he considers it necessary in particular
emphasize that this was done solely in the light of the exceptional circumstances of the case, which

5/6



does not in any way imply a general tendency on the part of the Office to publish documents relating to
criminal proceedings that contain personal data. At the same time, the appellate body found that
a decision is also admissible given that it complies with the original decomposition, and
no damage can be caused to any of the parties to the proceedings.
            
 
Lessons learned:

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 (1) of the Act, this decision shall be challenged
No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, cannot be revoked.

official stamp imprint

JUDr. Ivana Janů, v. R.

chairwoman

 
 
Prague, September 27, 2018
 

 
 

 
 
 
For correctness of execution:

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

6/6

