




Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of May 4th, 2022
Data protection conference calls for employee data protection law







No.20220504
|
05/05/2022
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

The conference of the independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) published its call for an employee data protection law today. In their resolution, the data protection officers point out that the dynamically developing digitization is leading to far-reaching changes in the world of work, which enable new possibilities for behavior and performance controls. Therefore, from their point of view, further legal regulations, as announced in the coalition agreement at federal level, are necessary and overdue.
The chairman of the DSK, Professor Ulrich Kelber, Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI): "The current regulations on employee data protection are far from sufficient. The legislature must create an independent employee data protection law."
BfDI Kelber explains the main content: “Regulations on the use of algorithmic systems – including artificial intelligence – in the employment context are important. Employees and applicants are particularly in need of protection because of their dependency. Statutory regulations are essential to ensure that this need for protection is taken into account and that all those involved can benefit from the opportunities offered by the use of AI."
In its resolution, the DSK presents core areas in which legal regulations must be created. The chairman of the DSK, Professor Ulrich Kelber, emphasizes one area in particular: “Legal regulations on data processing in the application phase are of central importance. So far, there are no specific legal regulations. This leads to little legal certainty, for example in areas such as employers' right to ask questions, when collecting data about applicants in social networks, from third parties or in what is known as active sourcing."
Active sourcing is understood to mean methods with which companies identify and contact candidates for vacancies.
The text of the resolution is published on the BfDI homepage: https://www.bfdi.bund.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/DSK/DSKEntschlussungen/DSK_20220429-Besch%C3%A4ftedatenschutz.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=1More information to the data protection conference:
www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de
Contact: The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Graurheindorfer Straße 15353117 BonnE-Mail: pressestelle@bfdi.bund.de









                Back to overview









