



DSK provides information on data protection and Corona





03/16/2020








            The Data Protection Conference (DSK), the body of the independent German federal and state data protection supervisory authorities, publishes information for employers and employers on how to deal with data protection in connection with the corona pandemic. The data protection officers make it clear that the protection of personal data and measures to combat infection do not conflict with one another.









Fotolia_131540995_S.jpg

© doomu fotolia.com

 





The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) Professor Ulrich Kelber said: "We have received questions as to how data protection can be implemented with legal certainty in this special situation. I am glad that the data protection supervisory authorities can now make a joint recommendation on this. Information about our health is very sensitive data. Anyone who collects or processes such data must be aware of their special responsibility. As long as the measures taken by employers and employers are proportionate, data protection does not stand in the way of infection control. Because the health of citizens Citizens are the focus now."
Data can be collected and used in accordance with data protection regulations for various measures to contain the corona pandemic or to protect employees. For example, personal data may be collected from employees in order to prevent the virus from spreading among the workforce as best as possible. It is also possible to collect personal data from guests and visitors.
Detailed information on how to deal with data protection during the corona pandemic can be found on the BfDI website under the following link:
 





Left: Notes on dealing with data protection during the corona pandemic








 Contact for press representativesPress spokeswoman: Mrs. Maria Christina RostPress and public relations: Telephone: +49 611 1408 119The Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of InformationP.O. Box 316365021 Wiesbaden

 





PrintSend as email


 

