

The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, in cooperation with the Croatian Association of Employers, organized a free workshop for entrepreneurs on December 16, 2021, at the HUP premises, "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation during a pandemic".
This workshop is one of the activities of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data within the project ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for SMEs), co-financed by the EU program of the European Union "Rights, Equality and Citizenship". Project manager Anamarija Mladinić pointed out that the project is being implemented with the aim of providing support to micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen when harmonizing business processes with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation through the implementation of various project activities.
Therefore, in order to help entrepreneurs when complying with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Agency's experts pointed out the obligations and key steps that need to be taken. However, the focus of the workshop was on the current topic that causes the most doubts in the private sector, which is how to coordinate your business and properly process personal data during the pandemic. On this occasion, an online workshop was also announced, where the Agency's experts will answer employers' questions related to the processing of personal data, in the context of the implementation of the Decisions of the Civil Protection Headquarters.
"This year, the agency paid special attention to its advisory role and despite the restrictions, we held over 50 workshops for entrepreneurs and data protection officers. Although this is the first workshop we organize in cooperation with HUP, I can express my satisfaction that we will continue the cooperation next year and will hold workshops in regional centers throughout Croatia. It is very important that everyone who processes personal data is well informed about their obligations, harmonizes their operations and thus avoids situations in which they may find themselves in the role of violators of the General Regulation on Data Protection," said director Zdravko Vukić and thanked the HUP- in cooperation, and wished the entrepreneurs success in their further work.
During the workshop, entrepreneurs had the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the key terms and provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. What are the legal bases for the processing of personal data, what technical and organizational measures need to be taken, but also why a data protection officer is important, are just some of the topics covered by AZOP experts.
With the aim of raising the level of awareness and sensitizing entrepreneurs about the importance of data protection within the framework of the ARC project, a promotional video was also created, which was shown to all workshop participants on this occasion. You can find out more about the EU ARC project at the link https://arc-rec-project.eu/naslovna/
In addition to the announced workshops in cooperation with HUP, the Personal Data Protection Agency will continue training entrepreneurs next year in cooperation with HGK and HOK.






















































