
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    05/17/2022
                                Census 2022 – LfDI on siteWhat is the census?EU regulation 763/2008 stipulates that since 2011 a population census must be carried out in the EU member states every ten years. After 2011, this "census" should actually have taken place in 2021, but was postponed by a year due to the corona pandemic. May 15, 2022 was set as the census deadline. Although some important steps of the census are already in progress before this date, survey officers will visit some of the population at home from this date what course of education they have followed. This information in turn serves as the basis for future state decisions and planning at federal, state and local level, such as the provision of state infrastructure (e.g. schools, sports facilities, roads, local public transport) or state planning and development. How does the census work? The census is carried out by the statistical offices of the federal and state governments and the survey offices in the district administrations and urban districts. As with the 2011 census, the 2022 census will not be carried out as a complete survey using surveys. Rather, most of the census is register-based. This means that existing data from the state administration (in particular from the population registers) is sent to the Federal Statistical Office for statistical processing. As part of the household survey, only a small proportion of the population is interviewed directly, namely a sample of around 10-12 nationwide %. From May 15, 2022 until August, citizens will be surveyed at randomly selected addresses. This household survey serves to determine realistic population figures. In addition, information is collected that is not available in administrative registers (e.g. level of education and employment participation). In Rhineland-Palatinate, the surveys are organized by 36 regional survey offices in the districts and urban districts. Specially trained survey officers who are committed to data protection are used. The survey is carried out in direct interviews with around 390,000 people included in the sample in Rhineland-Palatinate. Questions about the level of education, employment and any existing migration experience can be answered conveniently using the online questionnaire. If this is not possible or not desired, a paper questionnaire can be filled out as an alternative. There is an obligation to provide information for this survey. Many citizens will have already been informed that they are part of the sample. In addition to the household survey, all owners and other persons entitled to dispose of and use the building and dwellings are surveyed. This survey is conducted online or in writing. What does the data protection officer do? As the supervisory authority for data protection, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information of Rhineland-Palatinate has already accompanied the preparations for the census and, together with the State Statistical Office, has drawn up specific requirements to ensure data protection and Coordinated data security. The protective measures are particularly strict for official statistics. Statistical secrecy requires that reference to individuals be eliminated as early as possible in statistical processing. The processing of official statistics is particularly geared to maintaining statistical secrecy. As with the 2011 census, the LfDI also carries out random on-site inspections at survey agencies. The majority of the checks were carried out before the deadline of May 15, 2022, a smaller part will take place after the deadline. If inadequate implementation of data protection regulations is determined, the LfDI works to ensure that these deficiencies are eliminated. Dieter Kugelmann, "because it was the initially failed census in the 1980s that led to the fundamental right to informational self-determination that significantly shaped data protection in Germany in the years that followed. Therefore, I also see a special responsibility of my authority for the data protection concerns of the citizens with the census and we take a very close look at the current implementation but also the subsequent processing of the data collected. However, we also know that the State Statistical Office and the survey agencies are putting a lot of effort and effort into preparing and conducting the census to meet the requirements and ensure a secure and data protection-compliant census for 2022.” You can find more information on the Websites of the Federal Statistical Office and the State Statistical Office of Rhineland-Palatinate.
                                return
                            



