Opinion 4/2019

on the draft Administrative Arrangement for the transfer of
personal data between European Economic Area (“EEA”)
Financial Supervisory Authorities and non-EEA Financial

Supervisory Authorities

Adopted on 12 February 2019

adopted

1

Table of contents

1
2
3
4

Summary of the Facts...................................................................................................................... 4
Assessment...................................................................................................................................... 4
Conclusions/Recommendations...................................................................................................... 7
Final remarks................................................................................................................................... 8

adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (2), (3) - (8) and Article 46 (3), (b) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,

Having  regard  to  Article  10  and  22 of  its Rules of Procedure  of 25  May 2018,  as  amended on  23
November 2018.

Whereas:

(1) With reference to Article 46 (1), (3) (b) and 46 (4) GDPR, in the absence of a decision pursuant to
Article 45 (3), a controller or processor may transfer personal data to a third country or international
organisation only if the controller or processor has provided appropriate safeguards, and on condition
that  enforceable  data  subject  rights  and  effective  legal  remedies  for  data  subjects  are  available.
Subject to authorisation from the competent supervisory authority (“competent SA”), the appropriate
safeguards    may  also  be  provided  for,  in  particular,  by  provisions  inserted  into  administrative
arrangements between  public  authorities  or  bodies  which  include  enforceable  and  effective  data
subject rights.

(2) Taking into account the specific characteristics of the administrative arrangements provided for by
Article 46 (3) (b)1, which may vary considerably, each case should be addressed individually and is
without prejudice to the assessment of any other administrative arrangement.

(3) The EDPB ensures pursuant to Article 70 (1) of the GDPR the consistent application of Regulation
2016/679 throughout the European Economic Area. Under Article 64 (2), the consistency mechanism
may be triggered by a supervisory authority, the EDPB Chair or the Commission for any matter of
general application or producing effects in more than one Member State. The EDPB shall issue an
opinion on the matter submitted to it provided that it has not already issued an opinion on the same
matter.

(4) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with Article
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks after the Chair has decided that the file is
complete. Upon decision of the EDPB Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking
into account the complexity of the subject matter.

(5) Pursuant to Article 65 (1) (c) GDPR where a competent SA does not follow the opinion of the EDPB
issued under Article 64, any supervisory authority concerned or the Commission may communicate
the matter to the EDPB and it shall adopt a binding decision.

1 See also recital 108 GDPR

adopted

3

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

Following several rounds of discussions , the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), acting
as  facilitator  for  EEA  financial  supervisory  authorities  (NCAs)  and  in  its  own  capacity,  and  the
International Organisation  of  Securities Commission  (IOSCO)  have  submitted by  official  letter   the
attached draft Administrative Arrangement (hereinafter draft AA) according to Article 46 (3) (b) GDPR
to frame the transfers of personal data from EEA NCAs (and ESMA itself) to their non-EEA counterparts.
This draft AA was communicated to the Chair of the EDPB on 2 January 2019.

Following the submission, the Chair of the EDPB has requested the Board for an opinion pursuant to
Article 64(2) GDPR. The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 15 January 2019.

2 ASSESSMENT

The draft AA may be used by all market regulators in the EEA and submitted to the competent SAs for
authorisation. As a result, the matter is producing effects in more than one Member States within the
meaning of Article 64(2) GDPR.

The draft AA is necessary to ensure efficient international cooperation between these authorities,
acting  in  their  capacity  as  public  authorities,  regulators  and/or  supervisors  of  securities  and/or
derivatives  markets,  in  order  to  “safeguard  investors  or  customers,  and  to  foster  integrity  and
confidence in the securities and derivatives markets”  in accordance with their mandates as defined
by applicable laws.

In  assessing  the  provisions  contained  in this  specific  draft  AA,  the EDPB  has taken  into  account  a
number of specific elements for the assessment of possible risks posed by the transfers of personal
data including the type of personal data subject to the AA and the objectives pursued.

-

The draft AA which can be found in its entirety in the attachment includes the following guarantees:
Definitions  of  GDPR  concepts  and  data  subject  rights: Section  II  of  the  AA  contains  the
relevant definitions necessary to determine the scope of the AA and its consistent application.
Among  them there  are  some  definitions of  key  concepts  and  rights  of the  European  data
protection legal framework such as “personal data”, “processing”, “personal data breach”,
“right of access”, “right of erasure” which are in line with the definitions contained in the
GDPR.
Principle of purpose limitation and prohibition of any further use: Section III (1) of the AA
works on the premise that Authorities have specific responsibilities and regulatory mandates,
which  include  protecting  investors  or  customers  and  fostering  integrity  and  confidence  in
securities and/or derivatives markets. According to the principle of purpose limitation, the
transfers  can  therefore  only  take  place 
in  the  framework  of  such  mandates  and

-

adopted

4

-

-

-

-

-

responsibilities,  namely  if  necessary  to  support  their  institutional  tasks  and the  receiving
Authority  will  not  be  allowed  to  further  process  the  personal  data  in  a  manner  that  is
incompatible with these purposes.
Principle  of  data  quality  and  proportionality: According  to  Section  III.2  of  the  AA  the
transferring  Authority  will  only transfer  accurate  and  up  to  date  personal  data  that  are
adequate,  relevant  and  limited  to  what  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  for  which  they  are
transferred and further processed. Each Authority will inform the other if it becomes aware
that  transferred  personal data is  incorrect.  Having  regard  to  the  purposes  for  which  the
personal data have been transferred and further processed, each Authority will supplement,
erase, block, correct or otherwise rectify the personal data, as appropriate.
Principle of transparency: A general notice to data subjects will be provided by each Authority
in relation to the processing carried out, including the transfer, the type of entities to which
data may be transferred, the rights available to them under the applicable legal requirements,
including  how  to  exercise  those  rights  and  information  about  any  applicable  delay  or
restrictions on the exercise of such rights and the contact details for submitting a dispute or
claim. This notice will be provided by each Authority on its website where it will be published
along with this Arrangement. Furthermore, individual notice will be provided to data subjects
by EEA Authorities in accordance with the GDPR and, in the case of ESMA, in accordance with
Regulation 2018/1725.

Principle of data retention: As provided by Section III.7 of the AA the Authorities will retain
personal data for no longer than is necessary for the purpose for which the data are processed
in compliance with the applicable laws.

Security and confidentiality measures: Section III.4 envisages that each receiving Authority
will have in place appropriate technical and organizational measures to protect personal data
that are transferred to it against accidental or unlawful access, destruction, loss, alteration, or
unauthorized disclosure, including, for example, marking information as personal data and
restricting who has access to personal data.

The  AA  also  envisages  that  in  the  case  where  a  receiving  Authority  becomes  aware  of  a
personal data breach, it will inform the transferring Authority as soon as possible and use
reasonable and appropriate means to remedy the personal data breach and minimize the
potential adverse effects.

Safeguards relating to data subject rights: Section III (5) of the AA provides for safeguards
relating to data subject rights. Data subjects can obtain confirmation of whether their data
have been transferred to another financial supervisory Authority outside the EEA (TCA). Data
subjects will also be provided with access to their personal data upon request. In addition, data
subjects may request directly to the concerned NCA or TCA that their data are rectified, erased,
restricted  or  blocked.  Information  regarding  these  safeguards  are  to  be  provided  on  the
NCA/TCA website. Any restriction to these rights has to be provided by law and is allowed only
to the extent and for as long as this is necessary to protect confidentiality or for important
objectives of general public interest which when the transferring Authority is an EEA NCA, has
to be recognized by the Member State of this NCA (including, for instance, to prevent prejudice
or harm to supervisory/enforcement functions).

-

Restrictions on onward transfers: Onward transfers to a third party in another country who is
not an Authority participating in the AA and is not covered by an adequacy decision from the

adopted

5

European Commission will only take place with the prior written consent of the transferring
Authority, and if the third party provides appropriate assurances that are consistent with the
safeguards in the AA.

The same safeguards are envisaged for cases of sharing of personal data with a third party in
the  same  country  of  the  receiving  Authority  unless,  in  exceptional  cases,  such  third  party
cannot provide the aforementioned assurances. In this case, the transfer may take place only
if the sharing is “for important reasons of public interest”. When the transferring Authority is
an EEA NCA, this public interest has to be recognized by the Member State of this NCA.

Personal data may be shared with a third party in the same country of the receiving Authority
(such as public bodies, courts, self-regulatory organizations and participants in enforcement
proceedings) without consent from the transferring Authority, or assurances only in two cases:

(i) If the purpose for which the personal data are shared and then used is consistent with the
purpose for which the data were initially transferred or with the general framework of the use
stated in the original specific request from the receiving Authority, and the sharing is necessary
to fulfil the mandate and responsibilities of the receiving Authority and/or the third party.

(ii) When the sharing of personal data follows a legally enforceable demand or is required by
law.  The  receiving  Authority will  notify  the  transferring  Authority  prior  to  the sharing  and
include information about the data requested, the requesting body and the legal basis for
sharing. The receiving Authority will use its best efforts to limit the sharing of personal data
received under this Arrangement, in particular through the assertion of all applicable legal
exemptions and privileges.

Redress: Section III (8) of the AA provides for a redress mechanism. This mechanism is there
to ensure the right to obtain redress and, where appropriate, to receive compensation. In
cases where non-compliance of the AA occurs, including where data subject rights are violated,
redress  can  be  exercised  before  a  competent  body  (e.g.  court).  Redress  before  such  a
competent body will be in accordance with the applicable legal requirements, ensuring that
the rights of the data subject related to the principles and safeguards provided for under the
AA can be effectively enforced. The transferring Authority will be informed about any dispute
or claim and the authorities on both sides will use best efforts to settle the dispute or claim
amicably. In the event the matter cannot be resolved in this way, other methods will be used
to resolve the dispute, including non-binding mediation or dispute resolution mechanisms. If
the transferring Authority is of the view that a receiving Authority has not acted consistent
with the safeguards set out in the AA, e.g. as it has not followed the decision of the non-binding
mediation or alternative dispute resolution mechanism, it will suspend any transfers under the
AA  to  the  receiving  Authority  until  the  issue  is  satisfactorily  resolved.  Moreover,  the
“assessment  group”  (as  well  as  all  other  Authorities)  will  be  notified  and  can,  in  case  it
determines that there has been a “demonstrated change in the willingness or ability of [the
receiving Authority] to act consistent with the [AA]”, recommend that the receiving Authority’s
participation in the AA be discontinued. In order to enable data subjects to exercise their right
of redress, the AA will be made publicly available.

-

- Oversight mechanism: Section IV of the AA provides for an external oversight mechanism
ensuring the implementation of the safeguards of the AA. This oversight mechanism consists
of  a  combination  of  periodic  reviews  conducted  by the  “assessment  group”  and  by  each
NCA/TCA internally. The combination of the external and internal oversight as well as the

adopted

6

possible consequences following a negative review – which may include a recommendation to
suspend an Authority’s participation in the AA – provides for a satisfactory level of protection.

7.

8.

9.

The EDPB welcomes the efforts made for this multilateral AA which includes a number of important
data  protection  safeguards.  In  order  to  make  sure  that  these  safeguards  continue  to  ensure  an
appropriate level of data  protection when data are transferred to a third country under this AA, taking
into account the unique nature of such non - binding agreements, the EDPB underlines the following:

Each competent SA will monitor the AA and its practical application especially in relation to sections III
(5), (6), (8) and IV relating to data subject rights, onward transfers, redress and oversight mechanisms
to  ensure  that  data  subjects  are  provided  with  effective  and  enforceable  data  subject  rights,
appropriate redress and that compliance with the  AA is effectively supervised.

Each competent SA shall only authorise this AA as a suitable data protection safeguard with a view to
the cross-border data transfer, conditional to full compliance by the signatories with all the clauses of
the AA.

10.

Each competent SA, will suspend the relevant data flows carried out by the NCA in its Member State
pursuant to the authorization, if the AA no longer provides for appropriate safeguards in the meaning
of the GDPR.

3 CONCLUSIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS

11.

12.

13.

Taking into account the above and the commitments the NCAs, ESMA and their non-EEA counterparts
will undertake by signing this AA in order to have “in place appropriate safeguards for the processing
of such personal data in the exercise of their respective regulatory mandates and responsibilities” and
to  “act  consistent  with  this  Arrangement”,  the  EDPB  considers  that  the  AA  ensures  appropriate
safeguards when personal data will be transferred on the basis of this AA to public bodies in third
countries not covered by a European Commission adequacy decision.

Consistent with the preamble of the AA, acknowledging the importance of regular dialogue between
the EEA NCAs and their competent SAs, or the European Data Protection Supervisor (“EDPS”) in the
case of ESMA, and in order to allow the competent SAs to carry out their task of monitoring and
enforcing  the  application  of  the  GDPR  in  accordance  with  Article  57  (1)  (a)  of  the  GDPR,  the
authorisation adopted by the competent SA should envisage that each signatory EEA NCA or ESMA
shall inform the respective competent SA of any suspension of transfers of personal data based on
Sections III (8) and IV of the AA, as well as of any revision or discontinuation of participation to the AA
based on Section V.

In addition, the EDPB recalls that, in line with the accountability principle, each NCA and ESMA will
need to keep records of information to facilitate the monitoring task of the SAs. This information
should in any case be made available upon request from the competent SA. Each SA may also, in its
authorisation, request to receive this information from NCAs or ESMA on an annual basis without any
prior request.  This information should include elements on the number of data subject requests and
claims received by data subjects at EU level, details on the cases not resolved through the envisaged
dispute  resolution  mechanisms  as  well  as  on  respective  findings  and  actions  of  the  “Assessment
Group” following the periodic reviews including actions with regards to the sharing of personal data

adopted

7

under Section 6.2.3 of the AA. Information should also be recorded on the notifications received by
NCAs on the sharing of information to a third party by the TCA following a legally enforceable demand
or required by law.

4 FINAL REMARKS

14.

This opinion will be made public pursuant to Article 64 (5) (b) of the GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

adopted

8

