 

 
 
 

 

1 (10) 

Record no. 572/117/20 

29 January 2021 

The FI SA accreditation requirements for a GDPR code of con-
duct monitoring bodies 

Introduction 

The regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of their per-
sonal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC 
(General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)) came into effect on 25 May 2018. 
GDPR encourages the development of voluntary compliance activities including 
codes of conduct in order for data controllers and processors to demonstrate their ef-
fective application of the GDPR. 

According to Article 57(1)(p) GDPR each supervisory authority (SA) shall on its terri-
tory draft and publish the criteria for accreditation of a body for monitoring codes of 
conduct pursuant to Article 41. Further, in Article 41(3) is the requirement for the 
competent SA to submit the draft criteria for accreditation of a monitoring body to the 
European Data Protection Board (EDPB). Finnish Data Protection Act (1050/2018) 
determines that the national supervisory authority referred to in GDPR is, in Finland, 
the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman (the Finnish supervisory authority (FI 
SA)).  

In this document FI SA drafts above-mentioned requirements for accreditation of the 
monitoring body. This document should be read alongside articles 40 and 41 GDPR 
and the EDPB Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring Bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679 (Guidelines 1/2019). GDPR and Guidelines 1/2019 set out a 
broad framework for the type and structure of a monitoring body, taking into account 
the code itself and thereby allowing some flexibility. 

Article 41(1) GDPR states that the monitoring of compliance with approved codes of 
conduct may be carried out by an impartial monitoring body which has an appropriate 
level of expertise in relation to the subject-matter of the code and is accredited for 
that purpose by the competent supervisory authority. 

According to Article 41(2) monitoring bodies must: 

•  Demonstrate independence and expertise in relation to the subject matter of 

the code as per Article 41(2)(a). 

•  Demonstrate established procedures which allow it to assess the eligibility of 
controllers and processors concerned to apply the code, to monitor their com-
pliance with its provisions and to periodically review its operation as per Arti-
cle 41(2)(b). 

•  Demonstrate established procedures and structures to handle complaints 

about infringements of the code or the manner in which the code has been, or 
is being, implemented by a controller of processor, and to make those 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00531 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (switchboard) – tietosuoja@om.fi –  
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 
 
 

 
2 (10) 
 

 
 
 

procedures and structures transparent to data subjects and the public as per 
Article 41(2)(c). 

•  Demonstrate to the satisfaction of the competent supervisory authority that its 

tasks and duties do not result in a conflict of interest as per Article 41(2)(d). 

General notes 

Applications for monitoring body accreditation must be submitted in Finnish, Swedish 
or English with all supporting documents to the FI SA.  

The FI SA will review the accreditation of the monitoring body periodically according 
to risk-based approach to ensure that the body still meets the requirements for ac-
creditation. The review period will be determined in each case in the FI SAs decision 
concerning the accreditation of the monitoring body. The monitoring body shall com-
municate with the FI SA which will initiate the review process. Time of communication 
will be determined in line with the review period. Such a review could also be initiated 
by (but is not limited to): amendments to the code of conduct, substantial changes to 
the monitoring body or the monitoring body failing to deliver its monitoring functions. 

The monitoring body will retain its accreditation status unless the outcome of the re-
view concludes that the requirements for accreditation are no longer met. The review 
might result in the revocation of the accreditation of a monitoring body pursuant to Ar-
ticle 41(5) GDPR.  

The requirements listed in this document shall apply to a monitoring body regardless 
of whether it is an internal or external body, unless the requirement states otherwise.  

Accreditation Requirements 

1 Independence  

Explanatory Note 

The monitoring body shall be appropriately independent in relation to its impartiality of 
function from the code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the code 
applies. It shall also be appropriately independent with regard to any legal and eco-
nomic links that may exist between the monitoring body and the code owner or code 
members. Independence of a monitoring body can be understood as a series of for-
mal rules and procedures for the appointment, terms of reference and operation of 
the monitoring body. These rules and procedures will allow the monitoring body to 
perform its monitoring tasks without influence from members of the code or its code 
owner. 

The requirements below set out what constitutes independence. The monitoring body 
requesting accreditation shall demonstrate its independence within the following ar-
eas: the monitoring body’s financial resources, appointment of members/staff, deci-
sion making procedures and accountability, and organisational structure.  

Financial resources 

1.1 The monitoring body shall have the financial stability and resources for the opera-
tion of its activities and to meet its liabilities. The amount of financial resources 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
3 (10) 
 

required depend on the risks for data subjects, the sensitivity and complexity of the 
processing that takes place within the context of the code, the size of the sector con-
cerned, and the expected number and size of the code members.  

1.2 The monitoring body shall demonstrate its independence and financial stability in 
case one or more funding sources are no longer available. The monitoring body shall 
also demonstrate its financial independence and stability with regard to the risks as-
sociated with the activities of the monitoring body itself, for example in case of dam-
ages that need to be paid due to the monitoring body’s liability. In this respect, the ac-
credited monitoring body shall report to the FI SA when a relevant loss of funding 
sources occurs or in case of other relevant changes in its funding. 

1.3 The monitoring body shall be able to determine allocation of its funds and re-
sources independently and effectively monitor compliance without any form of influ-
ence from the code owner or code members. The monitoring body shall demonstrate 
the amount of budget and resources vested for monitoring the code of conduct in 
question. 

1.4 The monitoring body shall obtain financial support for its monitoring role in a way 
that does not compromise its independence. The financial support shall not be af-
fected by the actions and decisions of the monitoring body.  

1.5 The monitoring body shall deliver to the FI SA contractual clauses or other docu-
mentation that demonstrates how it obtains financial support for its monitoring role. 
The monitoring body would not be considered financially independent for example if 
the rules governing its financial support allow a code member, who is under investi-
gation by the monitoring body, to stop its financial contributions to it in order to avoid 
a potential sanction from the monitoring body. 

Appointment of members/staff 

1.6 The members/staff of the monitoring body shall be appointed via procedure that 
does not compromise the independence of the body. The members/staff of the body 
shall be appointed by the monitoring body or some other body appropriately inde-
pendent of the code.  

1.7 The monitoring body shall demonstrate its independence and impartiality and de-
liver to FI SA general description of the recruitment/appointment processes which 
cover appropriate mechanisms for identifying and mitigating any risks for its inde-
pendence. 

Decision making procedures and accountability 

1.8 The monitoring body shall act independently in performing its tasks and exercis-
ing its powers. Decisions and actions of the monitoring body shall be made free from 
any commercial, financial and other pressures. Any decisions made by the monitoring 
body related to its functions shall not be subject to approval by any other organisa-
tion, including the code owner.  

1.9 Members/staff of the monitoring body shall remain free from any external influ-
ence and shall be responsible for their decisions regarding the monitoring activities. 
This could be demonstrated through e.g. terms of the remuneration of the mem-
bers/staff of the body and/or the duration of the members/staff’s mandate. 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
4 (10) 
 

1.10 Monitoring body shall be accountable for its decisions and actions and shall de-
liver to the FI SA description of its roles and reporting procedures and its decision-
making process to ensure independence. Further, the monitoring body shall deliver to 
the FI SA its policies to increase awareness (e.g. training) among members/staff 
about the governance structures and the procedures in place. 

Organisational structure 

1.11 The monitoring body shall have adequate resources and personnel to effectively 
and independently perform its tasks. The amount and type of resources required de-
pend on the risks for data subjects, the sensitivity and complexity of the processing 
that takes places within the context of the code, the size of the sector concerned, and 
the expected number and size of code members.  

1.12 Internal monitoring body can be set up within a code owner. It cannot be set up 
within a code member. 

1.13 The monitoring body shall be protected from any sort of sanctions and interfer-
ence by code owners or code members as a result of its duty.  

1.14 In case of an internal monitoring body, monitoring body’s impartiality in relation 
to the larger entity (for example, the code owner) shall be ensured. An internal moni-
toring body should have separate members/staff and management. If in an excep-
tional situation it is not possible for an internal monitoring body to have separate 
members/personnel and management from the larger entity it belongs to, the moni-
toring body must demonstrate appropriate safeguards in place to sufficiently mitigate 
a risk of independence or a conflict of interest. This could be demonstrated for exam-
ple with documentation concerning information barriers, separate reporting and sepa-
rate operational and management functions. 

1.15 When a monitoring body uses sub-contractors to fulfil some of its tasks, the obli-
gations and requirements for independence, expertise and lack of conflicts of inter-
ests are applicable to the sub-contractor in the same way as to the monitoring body. 
Notwithstanding the sub-contractor’s responsibility and obligations, the monitoring 
body is always the ultimate responsible for the decision-making and for compliance. 
The use of subcontractors does not remove the responsibilities of the monitoring 
body. When subcontractors are used, the monitoring body shall ensure effective 
monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity. 

1.16 The monitoring body cannot outsource its decision-making powers.  

1.17 If sub-contractors are used, the monitoring body shall deliver to the FI SA the 
following information:  

•  a list of sub-contractors; 

• 

tasks and roles of sub-contractors. 

When sub-contractors are used for processes relating to monitoring actions the moni-
toring body shall also deliver: 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
5 (10) 
 

•  written contracts or agreements to outline for example responsibilities, confi-

dentiality, what type of data will be held and a requirement that the data is 
kept secure, termination of the contracts; and 

•  documentation of the procedure for subcontracting including an approval pro-

cess and the monitoring of subcontractors.  

2 Conflict of interest 

Explanatory Note 

The monitoring body shall demonstrate that the exercise of the monitoring body’s 
tasks and duties do not result in a conflict of interests. The requirements below aim to 
ensure that the monitoring body can deliver its monitoring activities in an impartial 
manner, identifying situations that are likely to create a conflict of interest and taking 
steps to avoid them. Conflicts of interest might depend for example on the specifici-
ties of the sector(s) to which the code of conduct applies. 

In case of an internal monitoring body the requirements relating to the burden proof of 
absence of conflict of interest will be evaluated in a stricter manner. 

Requirements 

2.1 The monitoring body shall refrain from any action incompatible with its tasks and 
duties. The monitoring body shall not provide any services to code members, code 
owner or other relevant bodies of the sector concerned that would adversely affect its 
impartiality. 

2.2 The monitoring body shall remain free from any external influence and shall nei-
ther seek nor take instructions from any person, organisation or association. 

2.3 During the recruitment process the monitoring body shall evaluate any risks, such 
as previous and current tasks, relating to possible impartiality of the person to be ap-
pointed/recruited. A conflict of interest could arise for example when personnel con-
ducting audits or making decisions have lately worked for the organisation in question 
in positions that may compromise their independence or impartiality. 

2.4 The staff/member shall be obliged to report any situation likely to create a conflict 
of interest.  

2.5 The monitoring body shall deliver to FI SA a description of the safeguards applied 
to preventing, detecting and eliminating potential conflicts of interest. This could be 
demonstrated through e.g. the procedures for recruitment/appointment, terms of the 
remuneration of the members/staff, the duration of the members/staff’s mandate, 
training programs and internal rules of the monitoring body on accepting gifts or ben-
efits.  

3 Expertise  

Explanatory Note 

The requirements below aim to ensure that the monitoring body possesses adequate 
competencies and requisite level of expertise to carry out its role in an effective 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
6 (10) 
 

manner. More detailed expertise requirements will be defined in the relevant code it-
self. Code specific requirements will be dependent upon such factors as: the size of 
the sector concerned, sector-specific legislation, the different interests involved and 
the risks of the processing activities. These code specific requirements will be consid-
ered as part of the accreditation. 

Requirements 

3.1 The monitoring body shall have an in-depth understanding of data protection is-
sues and expert knowledge of the specific processing activities which are the subject 
matter of the code. The monitoring body shall demonstrate compliance with data pro-
tection legislation in its own actions. In this respect the monitoring body shall provide 
information on how it has implemented the principle of accountability in its own ac-
tions. This information shall include at least records of processing activities (art. 30 
GDPR) of the monitoring body. The FI SA may require delivering additional infor-
mation and/or documents. 

3.2 The monitoring body shall ensure that its personnel carrying out monitoring activi-
ties have the required knowledge and experience in relation to the sector, processing 
activity, data protection legislation and auditing, in order to carry out compliance mon-
itoring in an effective manner.  

3.3 The monitoring body shall demonstrate that it meets the expertise requirements 
above and the relevant expertise requirements as defined in the code of conduct. The 
monitoring body shall deliver to the FI SA description of expertise that the monitoring 
body has and documentation that demonstrates how the continuous competence of 
its members/staff is ensured, such as a training program.  

4 Established procedures and structures 

Explanatory Note 

The monitoring body shall have appropriate governance structures and procedures to 
assess the eligibility of controllers and processors to apply the code, monitor compli-
ance with the code and to carry out reviews of the code’s operation. The require-
ments below aim to ensure that the proposals for monitoring are operationally feasi-
ble and effective. 

Requirements 

4.1 The monitoring body shall have comprehensive vetting procedure to assess the 
eligibility of the code members to sign up to and comply with the code. The monitor-
ing body shall deliver to the FI SA the grounds for assessing the eligibility. 

4.2 The monitoring body shall have procedures and structures to actively and effec-
tively monitor compliance by code members and review the code’s operation. Such 
procedures and structures shall be designed considering factors such as: the com-
plexity of the processing and risks involved, the size of the sector concerned, ex-
pected number and size of code members and complaints received.  

4.3 The monitoring body shall have procedures for investigation, identification, docu-
mentation and management of code member infringements as well as corrective 
measures and remedies to them. The procedures need to address the complete 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
7 (10) 
 

monitoring process, from the preparation of the evaluation to the conclusion of the 
audit and additional controls to ensure that appropriate actions are taken to remedy 
infringements and to prevent repeated offences. This shall include a specific control 
methodology and the documentation and assessment of the findings. 

4.4 The monitoring body shall deliver to the FI SA plans for monitoring actions and 
procedures such as audits, inspections, reporting, use of self-monitoring reports or 
questionnaires and description of use of the corrective measures determined in the 
code of conduct in case of infringements of the code by a controller or processor ad-
hering to it. These plans shall include procedures providing for audit plans to be car-
ried out over a definite period and on the basis of predetermined criteria that shall be 
described in the plans. The monitoring body shall deliver to the FI SA information on 
how it will manage complaints procedures. It shall outline a procedure to receive, 
manage and process complaints. 

4.5 The monitoring body shall be responsible for the management and confidentiality 
of all information obtained or created during the monitoring process.  

5 Transparent complaints handling 

Explanatory Note 

The monitoring body shall establish effective procedures and structures to handle 
complaints in an impartial and transparent manner. The complaint handling process 
shall be free of charge for the complainant, publicly accessible and sufficiently re-
sourced to manage complaints.  

Requirements 

5.1 The monitoring body shall have a publicly available, accessible and easily under-
stood complaints handling and decision-making procedure. The description of the 
procedure shall include at least: 

• 

instructions on how to file a complaint 

•  contact point for the complainant 

•  how the complaints are handled and estimated timeframe 

•  possible outcomes. 

5.2 The monitoring body shall deliver the above-mentioned description to the FI SA. 
The monitoring body shall have suitable corrective measures, defined in the code of 
conduct, to stop the possible infringement of the code and avoid future re-occurrence. 
Such corrective measures could also include training, issuing a warning, report to the 
board of the members, formal notice requiring action, suspension or exclusion from 
the code. The monitoring body shall deliver description of the corrective measures to 
the FI SA. 

5.3 The data subjects shall be informed about the status and outcome of their individ-
ual complaints. The monitoring body has to inform the complainant with progress re-
ports or the outcome of the complaint, within a reasonable time frame. This period 

 
 
 
 

 
8 (10) 
 

 
 
 

could be extended when necessary, taking into account the size of the organisation 
under investigation, as well as the size of the investigation. 

5.4 The monitoring body shall maintain a record of all complaints it receives, taken 
actions and outcomes to them. The record shall be accessible to the FI SA on re-
quest.  

5.5 The monitoring body’s decisions, or general information thereof, shall be made 
publicly available in line with its complaints handling procedure. This information 
could include but is not limited to, general statistical information concerning the num-
ber and type of complaints/infringements and the resolutions/corrective measures is-
sued and shall include information concerning any sanctions leading to suspensions 
or exclusions of code members. 

5.6 The decisions of the monitoring body shall be published at least when they relate 
to repeated and/or serious violations, such as the ones that could lead to the suspen-
sion or exclusion of the controller or processor concerned from the code. 

6 Communication with the FI SA 

Explanatory Note 

The monitoring body framework needs to include the effective communication with FI 
SA in respect of the code.  This includes information concerning any suspension or 
exclusion of code members, periodic reports on the code and any substantial 
changes to its own status. The section below sets out the information the monitoring 
body shall provide to the FI SA. 

Requirements 

6.1 The monitoring body shall notify the FI SA immediately and without undue delay 
about the measures taken and justification of any infringements leading to code 
member suspension or exclusion.  

6.2 The monitoring body shall give to the FI SA annual report with an overview of its 
activities and decisions. Such a report shall also cover: 

•  possible audits and inspections 

• 

infringements of the code and actions taken and 

•  summary of received complaints. 

6.3 The monitoring body shall report to the FI SA immediately and without undue de-
lay any substantial changes, such as: 

•  significant changes to the monitoring body’s legal, commercial, ownership or 

organisational status and key members/staff; 

•  significant changes to the monitoring body’s resources and location(s);  

•  any changes to the basis of accreditation of the monitoring body;  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
9 (10) 
 

•  significant changes in the number of code members; 

•  significant loss of funding sources or other significant changes in its funding. 

Substantial changes would result in a review of the accreditation.  

7 Review mechanisms 

Explanatory Note 

Monitoring bodies have a key role in contributing to the review of the code in accord-
ance with the review mechanisms outlined in the code to ensure that the code re-
mains relevant to the members and continues to meet the application of the GDPR. 
As a result of a code review, amendments or extensions to the code may be made by 
the code owner.  

Requirements 

7.1 The monitoring body shall contribute to reviews of the code as required by the 
code or the code owner. 

 

7.2 The monitoring body shall provide the code owner and any other establishment or 
institution referred to in the code with an annual report on the operation of the code. 
The report shall include: 

•  confirmation that a review of the code has taken place; 

•  possible recommendations for amendments to the code based on the review;  

•  details of any suspensions and exclusions of code members; and 

• 

information concerning infringements of code members, complaints managed 
and the type and outcome of monitoring functions that have taken place.  

8 Legal status 

Explanatory Note 

The monitoring body may be set up or established in a number of different ways, for 
example limited companies or trade associations or an internal part of the legal entity. 
Regardless of its legal form, the monitoring body must demonstrate that it has appro-
priate standing and sufficient financial and other resources to carry out its role and is 
capable of being fined.  

Requirements 

8.1 The monitoring body shall be a legal entity, or a defined part of a legal entity such 
that it is legally responsible for its monitoring activities. The monitoring body shall 
agree to be responsible for its monitoring role and therefore responsible for a fine un-
der Article 83(4)(c) GDPR and Section 24 Data Protection Act (1050/2018). 

8.2 The monitoring body shall have adequate resources for specific duties and re-
sponsibilities over a suitable period of time in accordance with the code. The 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
10 (10) 
 

sufficient financial and other resources shall be accompanied with the necessary pro-
cedures to ensure the functioning of the monitoring mechanism over time. 

8.3 The monitoring body shall indicate whether it acts as an internal or external moni-
toring body in relation to the code owner. The monitoring body shall deliver to the FI 
SA documents related to its legal status. Such documents could depend on the struc-
ture of the monitoring body and may include (but not be limited to): 

• 

full company and business name and date and place of incorporation, Memo-
randum and Articles of Association, details of significant shareholders and di-
rectors, registered office and number, ownership and organisation chart, de-
tails of interests in or relationship to any other company or organisation (such 
as joint ventures and partnerships); and 

•  evidence of appropriate legal transfers of powers and resources to the moni-

toring body, any relevant resolutions of the relevant shareholders or boards of 
directors (or equivalent for unincorporated associations or trade associations 
or similar), any relevant contracts or undertakings related to monitoring body’s 
legal status. 

8.4 The monitoring body shall be established in the EEA.  

  

