 
 
 
 
 
 
Ref: 11.17.001.009.097 
 

Decision 

 

Right to erasure – Viverno Markets Ltd 

 
Mr  xxx  (the  complainant)  has  lodged  a  complaint  with  the  State  Commissioner  for  Data 
Protection North Rhine-Westphalia SA against BDSwiss Holding PLC (the Controller) that 
was received by the Office of the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection (Cyprus SA, 
henceforth  the  “Commissioner”)  according  to  the  provisions  of  the  cooperation  and 
consistency procedures of the GDPR. 
 
2.  In  line  with  Article  56  or  the  Regulation,  the  Commissioner  is  acting  as  the  lead 
supervisory authority, as the Controller has its establishment in Cyprus.   
 
3. It is noted that the Controller has changed its name to VIVERNO MARKETS LTD. The 
Commissioner has verified through the companies’ Registrar that there has been a name 
change and the company registration number is the same (ΗΕ 300153).  
 
 
Summary of the Complaint:  
 
4.  According  to  the  complainant,  the  Controller  did  not  delete  his  personal  data  despite 
repeated  requests.  In response  to  his  requests  by  e-mail,  he  only  received  the message 
that his account had been closed, but his data was still stored. Unfortunately, he no longer 
has the corresponding e-mails.  
 
 
Legal Framework 
 
5.1. Article 12 of the GDPR states the following:  
 

1.      The  controller  shall  take  appropriate  measures  to  provide  any  information 
referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and any communication under Articles 15 to 22 and 
34  relating  to  processing  to  the  data  subject  in  a  concise,  transparent,  intelligible 
and  easily  accessible  form,  using  clear  and  plain  language,  in  particular  for  any 
information  addressed  specifically  to  a  child.  The  information  shall  be  provided  in 
writing,  or  by  other  means,  including,  where  appropriate,  by  electronic  means. 
When  requested  by  the  data  subject,  the  information  may  be  provided  orally, 
provided that the identity of the data subject is proven by other means. 
 

1 

 

2.   The controller shall facilitate the exercise of data subject rights under Articles 15 
to 22. In the cases referred to in Article 11(2), the controller shall not refuse to act 
on the request of the data subject for exercising his or her rights under Articles 15 
to  22,  unless  the  controller  demonstrates  that  it  is  not  in  a  position  to  identify  the 
data subject. 
 
3.      The  controller  shall  provide  information  on  action  taken  on  a  request  under 
Articles  15  to  22  to  the  data  subject  without  undue  delay  and  in  any  event  within 
one  month  of  receipt  of  the  request.  That  period  may  be  extended  by  two  further 
months  where  necessary,  taking  into  account  the  complexity  and  number  of  the 
requests. The controller shall inform the data subject of any such extension within 
one month of receipt of the request, together with the reasons for the delay. Where 
the data subject makes the request by electronic form means, the information shall 
be  provided  by  electronic  means  where  possible,  unless  otherwise  requested  by 
the data subject. 
 
4.      If  the  controller  does  not  take  action  on  the  request  of  the  data  subject,  the 
controller  shall  inform  the  data  subject  without  delay  and  at  the  latest  within  one 
month  of  receipt  of  the  request  of  the  reasons  for  not  taking  action  and  on  the 
possibility of lodging a complaint with a supervisory authority and seeking a judicial 
remedy. 
 
5.   Information provided under Articles 13 and 14 and any communication and any 
actions  taken  under  Articles  15  to  22  and  34  shall  be  provided  free  of  charge. 
Where  requests  from  a  data  subject  are  manifestly  unfounded  or  excessive,  in 
particular because of their repetitive character, the controller may either: 
 
(a)  charge  a  reasonable  fee  taking  into  account  the  administrative  costs  of 
providing the information or communication or taking the action requested; or 
 
(b) refuse to act on the request. 
 
The controller shall bear the burden of demonstrating the manifestly unfounded or 
excessive character of the request. 
 
6.      Without  prejudice  to  Article  11,  where  the  controller  has  reasonable  doubts 
concerning  the  identity  of  the  natural  person  making  the  request  referred  to  in 
Articles 15 to 21, the controller may request the provision of additional information 
necessary to confirm the identity of the data subject. 
 
7.   The information to be provided to data subjects pursuant to Articles 13 and 14 
may be provided in combination with standardised icons in order to give in an easily 
visible, intelligible and clearly legible manner a meaningful overview of the intended 
processing.  Where  the  icons  are  presented  electronically  they  shall  be  machine-
readable. 
 
8.      The  Commission  shall  be  empowered  to  adopt  delegated  acts  in  accordance 
with Article 92 for the purpose of determining the information to be presented by the 
icons and the procedures for providing standardised icons. 

2 

 

5.2. Article 17 of the GDPR states the following:  
 

1.   The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the erasure of 
personal  data  concerning  him  or  her  without  undue  delay  and  the  controller  shall 
have  the  obligation  to  erase  personal  data  without  undue  delay  where  one  of  the 
following grounds applies: 
 
(a) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which 
they were collected or otherwise processed; 
 
(b) the data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based according 
to  point  (a)  of Article 6(1),  or  point  (a)  of Article  9(2),  and  where  there  is  no  other 
legal ground for the processing; 
 
(c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there are 
no  overriding  legitimate  grounds  for  the  processing,  or  the  data  subject  objects to 
the processing pursuant to Article 21(2); 
 
(d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed; 
 
(e)  the  personal  data  have  to  be  erased  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  in 
Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject; 
 
(f)  the  personal  data  have  been  collected  in  relation  to  the  offer  of  information 
society services referred to in Article 8(1). 
 
2.   Where the controller has made the personal data public and is obliged pursuant 
to  paragraph  1  to  erase  the  personal  data,  the  controller,  taking  account  of 
available  technology  and  the  cost  of  implementation,  shall  take  reasonable  steps, 
including  technical  measures,  to  inform  controllers  which  are  processing  the 
personal data that the data subject has requested the erasure by such controllers of 
any links to, or copy or replication of, those personal data. 
 
3.   Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the extent that processing is necessary: 
 
(a)  for exercising the right of freedom of expression and information; 
 
(b)  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  which  requires  processing  by  Union  or 
Member State law to which the controller is subject or for the performance of a task 
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the 
controller; 
 
(c)  for  reasons  of  public  interest  in  the  area  of  public  health  in  accordance  with 
points (h) and (i) of Article 9(2) as well as Article 9(3); 
 
(d)  for  archiving  purposes  in  the  public  interest,  scientific  or  historical  research 
purposes  or  statistical  purposes  in  accordance  with  Article  89(1)  in  so  far  as  the 
right referred to in paragraph 1 is likely to render impossible or seriously impair the 
achievement of the objectives of that processing; or 

3 

 

 
(e) for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims. 
 
 

Investigation of the complaint 
 
6.  After  contacting  the  Controller  about  the  complaint,  the  Controller  has  informed  the 
Commissioner the following:  
The complainant has emailed the Controller asking for the closure of his account and the 
deletion  of  his  personal  data.  The  Controller  closed  the  account  and  informed  the 
complainant on the same date. On the same date, the complainant, emailed the Controller 
again, asking for the deletion of his personal data, in addition to the closure of the account. 
The Controller stated that it did not reply to his email due to the fact that the deletion of his 
data was not possible, due to the legal obligation to retain the data, and the complainant 
had  already  accepted  the  policy  of  the  Controller.  The  legal  obligation  to  retain  the 
personal  data  stems  from  article  68.1  of  the  national  Law  for  the  Prevention  and 
Suppression of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Law of 2007 to 2021, based on 
which  the  Controller  has  an  obligation  to  maintain  his  data  for  a  period  of  five  (5)  years 
after  the  end  of  the  business  relationship  with  the  customer  or  after  the  date  of  an 
occasional transaction. 
 
7.  Following  the  above  communication,  the  Controller  has  sent  an  email  to  the 
complainant  informing  him  that  his  data  cannot  be  deleted  due  to  the  above  legal 
obligation and that his data will be retained for at least 5 years. 
 
8.  The  Commissioner  contacted  the  Controller  again  in  order  to  clarify  what  is  the  exact 
retention period. It was clarified that the Controller has also an obligation to retain the data 
for  6  years  from  the  end  of  the  fiscal  year,  based  on  the  tax  legislation  (the  law  on 
Certification and Collection of Tax Laws, Law 4/1978 (Section (30(2)). 
 
9. Based on the above, the complainant is hereby informed that his data will be retained 
for  a  period  of  up  to  6  years  from  the  end  of  the  fiscal  year  of  the  end  of  the  business 
relationship with the Controller. 
 
 
Assessment  
  
10.  The  Controller  was  not  obliged  to  delete  the  complainant’s  data,  based  on  Article 
17(3)(b) due to the fact it had a legal obligation to retain the data. However, the Controller 
has  infringed  the  provisions  of  Article 12(4) because  it  did not  reply  to  the  complainant’s 
2nd email to provide him within one month, of the reasons for not taking action and about 
the  possibility  of  lodging  a  complaint  with  a  supervisory  authority  and  seeking  a  judicial 
remedy. 
 
 
11. Based on Article 58(2)(b) the Commissioner issues a  reprimand to the Controller for 
the infringement of Article 12(4).  
 
 

4 

 

Right of an effective remedy 
 
12.  Based  on  the  Cyprus  Constitution  and  on  The  Establishment  and  Operation  of  the 
Administrative Court Law of 2015 (Law 131(I)/2015) the affected parties have the right to 
file  an  appeal  against  this  Decision  at  the  Cyprus  Administrative  Court,  within  75  days 
from the day that the Decision was communicated to the affected party. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner for Personal  
Data Protection 
Cyprus 
(Cyprus SA) 
 
 
 
26 January 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Kypranoros 15, 1061 Nicosia / P.O. Box 23378, 1682  Nicosia - Cyprus. Tel.: +357 22818456, Fax:+357 22304565 

E-mail: commissioner@dataprotection.gov.cy ,Website: https://www.dataprotection.gov.cy 

 

5 

 

