Guidance – Addendum

(Annex to Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying
certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of

the Regulation)

Certification criteria assessment

Adopted on 06 April 2021

Adopted - version for public consultation

1

Table of contents
1
2
3
4
5

5.1
5.2

Introduction..................................................................................................................................... 3
Definition of terms .......................................................................................................................... 3
submitting a certification scheme to a sa........................................................................................ 3
Certification of products / Services ................................................................................................. 5
Scope of certification and target of evaluation............................................................................... 6
Evaluating the Scope of a Certification Scheme...................................................................... 6
Evaluating the Procedure to Determine a Target of Evaluation (ToE).................................... 8
Certification criteria......................................................................................................................... 9
6
Notice to auditors / Assessment notes ......................................................................................... 13
7
EU Data Protection Seals: national legislations coverage ............................................................. 14
8
9
Changes affecting certification...................................................................................................... 16
10 Accreditation & Multi-National certification................................................................................. 17
10.1
Scenario 1: CB established only in country A wants to certify against a national certification
scheme X in countries A, B & C. ........................................................................................................ 18
10.2
the EU.20
10.3
the organisation. “DataCompany Country A” may be the data controller for personal data
processed by “DataCompany (sales) Country B”. ............................................................................. 21
Scenario 4: How to handle certification in a joint controllership scenario? ......................... 21
10.4
11 Relation between SA & NABs ........................................................................................................ 22

Scenario 2: A certification body may have entities / branches in several member states of

Scenario 3: “Data controllers” may not be the same legal entity as the corporate entities of

Adopted - version for public consultation

2

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

1 INTRODUCTION

This guidance should be read in line with the EDPB Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying
certification criteria according to Articles 42 and 43 of the Regulation and Guidelines 4/2018 on the
accreditation  of  certification  bodies  under  Article  43  of  the  General  Data  Protection  Regulation
(2016/679). The aim of this additional guidance is to refine elements from EDPB Guidelines 1/2018 for
helping:

-

-

stakeholders  involved  in  the  drafting  of  certification  criteria  in  the  context  of  GDPR
certification and;
Supervisory Authorities (SAs) and the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) to be able to
provide  consistent  evaluations  in  the  context  of  certification  criteria  approval  (for  both
national schemes and EU data protection seals).

The recommendations contained in this document must not be seen as exhaustive. The assessment of
certification criteria will be carried out on a case-by-case basis, and specific certification mechanisms
may require additional measures not covered by this guidance.

2 DEFINITION OF TERMS

“General certification scheme”: a certification scheme that targets a large range of different processing
operations performed by a data controller/processor from various sectors of activity;

“Specific  certification  scheme”:  a  certification  scheme  that  targets  specific  processing operations
performed by a data controller/processor (e.g.: pseudonimyzation of personal data, human resources
processing) and / or for a specific sector of activity (example: data processing in stores);

“Objective”: a target, goal or purpose to be achieved by a criteria or a set of criteria;

“Certification guidance” – assistance for auditors or implementers related to how criteria could be met
under differing circumstances, scale or context.

3 SUBMITTING A CERTIFICATION SCHEME TO A SA

In order to facilitate the process of criteria approval by SAs and the EPDB, SAs may require scheme
owners  to  engage  early  with  them.  This  allows  for  an  informal  discussion  on the  scope  of  the
certification mechanism and on the intention of the scheme owner. This allows SAs to prepare, assign
and allocate resources as needed, and possibly, where applicable, to communicate with the local NAB.
Depending on the agreements mentioned above between SAs and NABs, there may also be a working
protocol in place between these bodies to facilitate applications for approval that has to be followed
by scheme owners.

8.

At an early stage of the drafting process, scheme owners should consider:

 What is the market demand for this certification mechanism?

Adopted - version for public consultation

3

 What  will  be  the  benefits  of  this  certification  mechanism for  the  data  subjects, for data

controllers and processors?

9.

Going into more detail based on the answers to these questions, additional considerations would be:

 What types of organization will ask for a certification? E.g.: is the scheme aimed at a specific

sector, or at a specific type of organization like associations or SMEs?

 What type of processing operations will be certified under the scheme? E.g. is the scheme
aimed at a specific type of activities / processing operations, like the processing of medical
records, or the use of a specific technology, like cloud computing services?
In  which  EU  Member  State(s) the  certification  mechanism  is  intended  to  be  used  or is it
intended to be used in all EU Member states, as an EU data protection seal.



10.

The scheme owner’s decisions on these topics is to be reflected in the scheme and the criteria. For
instance:









A  scheme  that  is  aimed  at  a  specific  sector will take  into  account  sectoral  law.  The  audit
approach laid out by the scheme will be expected to address commonly found risks in the
sector.
A scheme that is aimed at the use of a specific technology will contain criteria that are specific
to that particular type of technology (e.g. regarding anonymization or encryption techniques).
If a scheme is to be used in more than one member state, the scheme owner will be able to
demonstrate  that  their  certification  processes  will  take on  board  all  relevant  national
regulations in those member states.
If  a  scheme  aim  at  handling  different  sectors,  technology  and/or  categories  of  processing
(general certification scheme) the same expectations will apply.

The informal engagement of the scheme owners with the competent SA will help to clarify these
expectations.

11.

If applicable, at the conclusion of an informal phase, it is likely that SAs will expect that scheme owners
will make applications formally when they have good grounding to do so and where schemes are in a
mature state of preparation.

12. With this in mind, it is advisable that scheme owners should be prepared to provide to an SA:

 Details of scheme owner identity including contact details, establishment and data controller
status,  including,  where  applicable, the  location  of  the  headquarters  and  organisation
establishments that intend to make certification decisions.

 Where already known, the name of certification scheme stakeholders (e.g. where a scheme
owner will license the scheme to CBs in member states, if applicable logos/graphics/seals that
are used to represent the certification)

 Where the scheme owner is a CB any relevant references for existing ISO 17065 accreditation



with local or other NABs.
The  name  of  the  certification  scheme  and  a  description  of  the  scope  of  the  certification
scheme,  including  the  GDPR  target  area(s)  of  compliance  and  to  the  extent  possible,  the
intended ToE.

Adopted - version for public consultation

4













The specific processing operations covered by the certification scheme (accounting for the
certification scheme being general or specific)
The member state(s) the certification mechanism is intended to be operated in, and if the
scheme is expected to be national, multi-national, or an EU Seal
The organisations or sectors that are the target audience and the market demand that exists
for this certification scheme.
An  overview  of  the  scheme  criteria  and  how  the  criteria  and  objectives    are  intended  to
improve data protection compliance of controllers and processors and how data subjects will
benefit in respect of their information rights, including explaining desired outcomes to data
subjects.
The type of personal data the certification scheme applies to, including special categories of
data, location data, financial data.
In addition, scheme owners should be prepared to confirm to an SA :

o that EDPB guidelines are taken into account and in particular that the criteria address

all the sections required by Annex 2 of the EDPB certification guidelines

o to show that the criteria describe how the ToE should be defined by controller or

processor

o that the certification mechanism takes into account for the requirements set out in

ISO 17065/2012.

o and to enumerate any international, European or national recognized and relevant
standard (e.g. ISO, CEN/CENELEC, etc…) that are included or referenced and provide
the basis for the certification scheme.

4 CERTIFICATION OF PRODUCTS / SERVICES

13.

14.

The EDPB Guidelines 1/2018 on certification state that “A processing operation or a set of operations
may  result  in  a  product  or  service  in  the  terminology  of  ISO  17065  and  such  can  be  subject  of
certification. For instance, the processing of employee data for the purpose of salary payment or leave
management is a set of operations within the meaning of the GDPR and can result in a product, process
or a service in the terminology of ISO.”

Controllers or processors can apply for certification for the processing activities they undertake that
make use of personal data. Consequently, standalone products cannot be GDPR certified. In this case
no data controller / processor is yet involved in an actual and ongoing activity. So, no personal data is
currently being processed. If and when a data controller/processor makes use of such a product in the
context of a processing operation, it may become an element of the GDPR certification of a product,
process  or  service.  Nonetheless,  GDPR  recalls1 that  technology  and  software  providers  are
“encouraged to take into account the right to data protection when developing and designing such
products, services and applications and, with due regard to the state of the art, to make sure that
controllers and processors are able to fulfil their data protection obligations. “

15.

As such, a software provider cannot apply for certification for a software tool if it is a standalone
product used only at the client’s site without the involvement of the provider with regard to the client’s
processing of personal data. This is because GDPR certification is intended for controllers or processors

1 See GDPR recital 78

Adopted - version for public consultation

5

and not for manufacturers of standalone products. However, if the same software includes for example
a data storage service involving the provider in the processing of personal data, the provider can apply
for certification for this part (because the provider is likely to be a personal data processor). In that
case, it shall be clear where the processing activities performed by the end user stop and where the
provider starts performing them when defining the scope of the certification, but this too is required
in order to clearly delineate controller and processor relationships and responsibilities under GDPR.

16.

In this context, we can identify two kind of cases:

1)

2)

the certification applicant is not the software provider/developer/manufacturer: the ToE will
cover  some  of  the  data  processing  resulting  from  the  use  of  the  software  by  certain
controllers/processors (example: the HR process of a data controller that make use of an HR
software can be certified).

the  certification  applicant  is  the  software provider/developer/manufacturer:
the  ToE  can
cover some of the data processing that are provided “as a service” with the software by the
owner as a controller/processor (example: the data storage function of an HR software).

17.

In any case, the scope of the certification (what can be certified?) and the ToE (what is certified for a
specific controller / processor i.e the object of certification) need to be defined and will be provided
on the certificate for transparency. For instance, the owner of a HR SaaS will not be allowed to claim
that the usage of its software for HR processing has been certified if the scope of its certification is only
the data storage service that the HR SaaS provides2.

5 SCOPE OF CERTIFICATION AND TARGET OF EVALUATION

5.1 Evaluating the Scope of a Certification Scheme

18.

19.

20.

All certification schemes shall have a clearly defined scope and also indicate what is not included – to
avoid “scope creep”. This should be the central basis for the assessment at supervisory authorities and
at EDPB level (if the schemes claims to be applicable for any kind of processing, it will be challenged
on how the scheme can be applied to any kind of processing in a consistent and reliable manner,
including where special categories of data are processed).

This also plays an important role in the subsequent communication to the relevant public who need to
understand  what  is certified  and  what  is  not.  This  should  give  a clear  understanding  of  what this
concretely means for them, their personal data and how GDPR obligations will be undertaken and
delivered.

The  scope  and  objectives  of  a  GDPR  certification  and  the  supporting  processes  have  to  take  into
account not only the certification approach but also the related regulatory aspects that include the
precise links to GDPR requirements and, if applicable, national obligations.3 A certification scheme

2 Attention should also be paid to the fact that conformity marks should not be used in such a way as to create
a false impression of the purpose of the certification or to mislead consumers.
3 Certification  under  GDPR  articles  42  and  43  opens  the  possibilities  for  the  different  stakeholders  to  be
innovative. EDPB and SAs should support this possibility and contribute to it.

Adopted - version for public consultation

6

should be developed to address the GDPR requirements while ensuring an alignment and conformity
of the certification scheme with any included or leveraged ISO standards and certification practices.
As a result, a scheme should add value to an organization by helping to implement standardized and
specified organizational and technical measures that demonstrably facilitate and enhance processing
operation compliance. This reflects what EDPB Guidance 01/2018 means when is says the purpose of
criteria approval is ” to properly reflect the requirements and principles concerning the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data laid down in Regulation (EU) 2016/679;
and to contribute to the consistent application of the GDPR. ”.

21.

A scheme scope needs to be defined in some way to be practical, tractable and to be able to provide
an added value. General certification schemes might be applicable to multiple sectors and/or to many
kinds of processing activities etc. but, at the same time, they need to be limited to be manageable. For
example:

-

-

-

by  restricting  their  application only to  specific  or  clearly  defined and  delimited  processing
activities within the scope and objectives of the scheme that are considered low to medium
risk (in this case, a clear risk assessment method needs to be included in the scheme to select
and define the ToE and restrict it to low and medium risk4);

by excluding some topics that are not meaningful within the context of the certification scope
(in any case, this option is only possible if the topic isn’t expected to be part of the scope and
that the scope isn’t senseless without the topic);

by focusing on the GDPR articles that are relevant to the scope, and not including articles
that are irrelevant within the context. For instance, a scheme that focuses on security of
processing does not need to cover GDPR articles that are irrelevant to that particular scope5:
o in order to facilitate the assessment of certification schemes, scheme owners should
provide  detailed  explanations  regarding  their  scope and  indicate  what  exactly  is
evaluated (e.g. the added value the scheme brings). They should explain in how far the
scheme delivers what it promises: a clear countable expectation should be formulated.
This explanation should not just state that the scheme covers “cloud computing” as
this is too general;

o to  ease  understand  of  what  is  expected  as  a  demonstration  of conformity  with
certification criteria, a scheme shall not claim something that is not clear enough to
be assessed.

22.

For example, the scope of a certification mechanism related to cloud computing could be SaaS, IaaS
and PaaS.  Additionally,  SaaS  can  be  further  divided  in  sub-categories  because  providing  storage
capacities  is  very  different  from  providing other  services (e.g.  support  for  software  upgrades).  A
company might also decide to certify only of one of its service offerings, or even a part of a particular
service in certain circumstances. The scheme owner should ensure this is clear and allow for a suitable
ToE that reflects the scope to be determined. In this cloud computing example the target of evaluation
could go to a level of detail, like for instance: “Data storage service provided by MySaaSDataStorage”.

4 It doesn’t exclude the potential requirement of a risk assessment method in other cases
5 As a certification can be perceived as an indication of compliance with the GDPR, such restrictions need to be
transparent and clearly identified in order to avoid misleading data subjects.

Adopted - version for public consultation

7

23.

“Transparency is a key element”.

The scheme or the supporting documentation should make clear its scope to organizations who will
seek to be certified, and in so doing define what kind or sector of organization may make use of the
scheme. For instance, a scheme that sets out standards for compliant record keeping for any industry
or sector with any kind of data processing activities may not be able to encompass all purposes and
contexts of such processing in order that demonstrable compliance can be certified in all cases. In this
instance,  the  scheme  needs  to  clearly  specify  how  this  is  possible,  or  the  scheme  owner  should
reconsider the scope of the scheme by reducing its generality.  It is essential that a certification scheme
is clearly structured and comprehensible, which ensures transparency towards any interested party
(including data subjects) so that anyone dealing with the scheme can understand the process and
criteria of  a  certification.  Where  a  scheme  is  assessing  only  part  of  the  GDPR  requirements,  such
limitations, if  admissible  at  all, should  be  clearly  communicated  to  the  data  subjects  to  prevent
misinterpretation.

24.

“The importance of supporting processes”

Certification schemes need to define the implementation of supporting processes in order to ensure
that  all  relevant  situations  are  covered  and  that  certification  conclusions  of  different  certification
bodies (CBs) remain coherent during assessment of processing operations. This supporting system is
especially important for general certification schemes, meaning that even more effort is involved in
defining scheme criteria and the supporting processes to ensure that their applicability to diverse
categories  of  data  processing  activities  does  not  affect  the  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the
certifications issued according to the same schemes. As CBs are accredited to certify against specific
certification schemes, it is of utmost importance for them to implement accordingly the supporting
processes related to each certification scheme.

5.2 Evaluating the Procedure to Determine a Target of Evaluation (ToE)

25.

Before  performing  any  evaluation  activities,  the  CB,  working  with  the  applicant  (the  data
controller/processor)
identifies  and  specifies  the  ToE.  This  should  encompass  the  systematic
identification and description of the data processing activities, including:

-

-

-

a detailed description of the data processing activities and a comprehensive illustration of the
processing modalities in the ToE, including a clear indication of where the processing in the
ToE starts and where it ends.  It may also include all data flows, access points and interfaces,
reporting, data transformation or export, data set combinations or merges. It should do so in
the form of a diagram or a drawing, including any external data flows, query or programming
interfaces, aggregations, etc;
a justification of any exclusions of interdependent data processing operations / activities from
the  ToE.  If  this  case  occurs,  it  must  be  ensured  that  the coherence  of  the ToE is  not
undermined;
the identification (e.g. location, origin) and description of the data or data types processed and
in particular the personal data involved;

26.

In the certification scheme the requirement for a detailed description of the concrete ToE is to be made
and corresponding requirements for the consistent application of certain accompanying processes are
necessary in order to enable a consistent application of the certification criteria in comparable cases.
Following the requirement 7.3.1 from ISO 17065, a certification scheme shall require a Certification

Adopted - version for public consultation

8

Body to refuse any ToE that is ambiguous or misleading, or risks to be misinterpreted by data subjects
or by other third parties, or if the ToE is itself not compatible with the scope of the certification. A
Certification Body may decide to adapt the target of evaluation (based on a procedure that requires to
document the change) during the course of the certification process.

ToE transparency on the certificate

Considering the item 7.7.1(d) of ISO 17065, the certification body should provide a clear description of
the ToE on the certificate. Even if a summary of a certification report is accessible to data subjects or
other  parties,  it  is  important  for  any  party  to  be  able  to  quickly  identify  and  understand  which
process(es) are actually covered by the certification. Therefore a certification scheme should contain
clear and precise requirements as to the content describing the ToE that will be set out on certificates.

If the number of processing activities is large, this might be confusing for data subjects. Therefore, in
this case, the certificate can contain an executive summary of the certification and provide a link to an
external document containing the details of the certified processing.

Content on the certificates needs to be transparent and clear for data subjects and other concerned
stakeholders.

6 CERTIFICATION CRITERIA

How  specific  do  certification  criteria  need  to  be?  Paragraph  31  of  EDPB  Guidelines  1/2018 on
certification indicates that certification criteria, in order to qualify for approval, need to contribute
to the consistent application of the GDPR. How much level of detail in the certification criteria and/or
guidance for the auditor is needed in order to achieve this?

Certification is not about stating an entity is 100% GDPR compliant. But certification aims to show
concerning  a  particular  TOE  and  its  processing  operation(s) that the  applicant made  everything
possible, to satisfy certification criteria6.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

Certification criteria need to be framed in such a way that:

o they are consistent with the relevant stated objectives;
o an  evaluator  can  assess  the  processing  objectively  and  to  defined  levels  of

implementation;

o an evaluator can determine if those criteria levels are met or not, ensuring consistent

and repeatable evaluations of the same criteria;

o the risk of subjective or diverging interpretations of the criteria is minimized;
o the  criteria  are  applicable  to  diverse  contexts (sectorial  context,  technological

context), including their scalability to meet the requirements of SMEs.

32.

A certification scheme should therefore also be clear about:

6 GDPR Article 24(3) : « Adherence to approved codes of conduct as referred to in Article 40 or approved
certification mechanisms as referred to in Article 42 may be used as an element by which to demonstrate
compliance with the obligations of the controller.

Adopted - version for public consultation

9

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

o the nature of the evidence required by the evaluator is consistent: for instance, it would
not be acceptable that one CB requests actual proof or on-site inspections whereas other
CBs assessments of the same topic are just paper-based;

o what needs to be demonstrated (what is the purpose of the criteria).

The current EDPB guidelines 1/2018 on certification include guidance for defining certification criteria
in paragraph 67 as well as objectives and implementation guidance for the auditor to be included in a
scheme.

“Certification  criteria  should  be  uniform”: another  important  point  is  the question  of whether  the
criteria  contain  sufficient  content  to  allow  for  a  coherent  and  consistent  application  of  the same
certification scheme within a CB (in relation to different certifications / applicant) or between different
CBs. This is more challenging for general certification schemes and for this reason those schemes need
to put a special emphasis on clarity of scope and purpose from the beginning about their scope and
purpose.  Certification criteria should not be left open to interpretation by one or by different CBs
otherwise there is a risk that the evaluation methodology and the measures of compliance used will
differ, even if they still lead to the same certifications. In order to mitigate this risk, a guidance note to
auditors can play a key role.

“Certification criteria should be relevant to the targeted audience”: certification should be meaningful
when applied and assessed in the context of a ToE (taking into account the targeted audience), so the
criteria  should  be  realistic  and  proportionate  to  the  scheme’s  scope  and  its  expected  ToEs.  The
certification scheme may envisage differentiated criteria taking into account other elements such as
the context, scope, objectives and purpose of the validation of criteria. Those elements need to be
evaluated at the very beginning of the criteria assessment in order to check how they make sense, are
realistic and relevant to the ToE.

“Certification criteria should be auditable in order to facilitate the evaluation of processing operations
under  the  GDPR,  by  specifying  in  particular,  the  objectives  and  the  implementing  guidance  for
achieving those objectives” and “be flexible and scalable for application to different types and sizes of
organizations”

In addition, criteria can be generic (low level of detail) or more specific (high level of detail). However,
a criterion is different from its related objective because the former should be explicit about what is
expected as an output/evidence. As an example, “Privacy by design shall be implemented” can’t fulfill
the properties of a criterion (uniform, verifiable and auditable) but it could be set as an objective. In
that  case,  an  example  of  criteria  could  be  “when  developing  software,  test  data  sets  are  to  be
composed of anonymized data or dummy data. Anonymization requires [conditions to be met]. Only
if  [conditions  to  be  met]  pseudonymized  data  is allowed  to  be  used.  Pseudonymization  requires
[conditions to be met]. If pseudonymization is to be used, [conditions to be met]”.

38.

The following points may assist when drafting and assessing certification criteria:

1. An individual criterion always needs to be assessed taking into account its targeted context.
Understanding  how  the  ToE  is  to  be  selected  and  defined  (as  defined  in  the  certification
scheme) will likely need to be taken account of in order to perform this assessment. Does this
criterion  need  to  be  assessed  together  with  other  criteria  in  order  to  have  a  complete
“coverage” of a topic? Are there relationships and dependencies among criteria?
In view of that, it should be clear what the objective of the criterion is in the context of the
certification  scheme’s  scope  itself.  Why  is  it  relevant?  What  should  be  the  expected
outcome/result? What is the objective for an evaluator in assessing a criterion (example: is it

2.

Adopted - version for public consultation

10

to check for “well formed” records or to look at the process that leads to those records and to
their content?).

3. Then,  based on  that,  it  should  be  assessed whether  the  requirements  in  the criterion  are
sufficiently detailed to allow the conclusion that the expected outcome/result is met during
an evaluation. In addition, it should be considered if the necessary (formal) evidence for the
auditor is required to be able to draw the right conclusions (ex: policies & procedures, formal
allocation of responsibilities, trainings and awareness programmes, technical standards, etc.)?
If not, why not – what added value is provided above a mere repetition of GDPR (the scheme
owner should provide an explanation)?

5.

4. The criteria should also cover all possible scenarios that can reasonably be expected in the
context of the scheme’s scope or where applicable, it can be covered in a notice for auditors.
In the latter, a particular attention has to be taken to ensure consistent certification amongst
applicants. This is especially true in a general certification scheme where TOE may be very
different.
It cannot be excluded that there will be cases, where a criterion has been followed to the letter,
even while the evaluators are not persuaded that the result is GDPR compliant (for example
due to a different interpretation of the law / criteria etc.). Such a situation could lead to a non-
conformity of the criterion in the long term. The auditor should write down this finding in the
audit report and describe the “improvement” actions. By doing so, the auditors (and the CB)
are performing their task in an accountable way and the data processor/controller cannot
claim it was not informed.

39.

“verifiable, auditable and relevant” :

40.

The current EDPB Guidelines 1/2018 says criteria should be verifiable, auditable and relevant. At the
same time and as set out above, the same certification criteria may need to be assessed differently
depending on the TOE or if, for instance, special categories of personal data are used. Such flexibility
needs to be clearly defined in the criteria or this flexibility7 needs to be handled in adding criteria that
apply only, for example, to these special category data.

If we are to, for example, certify an “effective pseudonymization process” one element of evaluation
may be to do with security of the algorithm chosen for encryption or hashing. A good criterion for a
certification scheme focused on pseudonymization might specify details such as: what encryption or
hashing  scheme  to  use,  how  many  rotations  would  be  chosen,  what  testing  would  need  to  be
evidenced with representative data, what sampling checks happen when it is used “live”, how the state
of the art is monitored, how the evaluator can check the data controller is actually using it (Code,
configuration etc). Each of these elements would have to be evaluated and confirmed as being satisfied
in order to reach the certification schemes thresholds. A different or competing scheme for the same
question may have different criteria or “pass levels” that have to be met. For instance, if the scheme
targets  specifically  pseudonymization  process,  a  badly  defined  criterion  might  say  “A  suitable
encryption  scheme  should  be  used  and  a  record  kept  of  when  it  has  been  used”.  This  leaves  the
evaluation of “suitable”, the record keeping process, and other important assurance elements such as
testing  (not  mentioned)  up  to  interpretation  by  different  CBs,  and  ultimately  inconsistency  and
possible misapplication. As a result, it may happen that some organisations may be certified when they

7 Such flexibility may mainly apply to general certification schemes and it should be framed accordingly.

Adopted - version for public consultation

11

should not be. A scheme that is built around such poorly defined criteria does not result in a good
instrument of accountability.

Criteria example

Given the above guidance, the following section provides an example of a reasoned assessment of
a sample criterion.

Section: Data Subject Rights
Section objective: Enabling the effective exercise of the rights of data subjects
Criteria
The entity shall demonstrate that a procedure
or  mechanism 
in  place  to effectively
implement the request of the right of a data
subject to rectify his incomplete or erroneous
personal data.

Notice
The  entity  should  keep  records  of  the  data
subject 
the
communication  with  data  subjects,  the  follow-
up,  and 
if  applicable,  the  reason  for  not
complying with a data subject request.

request, 

content 

the 

of 

is 

 This criterion basically corresponds directly to the text of Article 16 of the GDPR. On the
contrary, certification criteria must go more into detail as to what the GDPR article demands
in order to meet the standards the same criteria wish to demonstrate. This sample criterion
is too abstract to achieve this. For instance, does the evaluator assess and determine that
the records accurately reflect the actual processing that is occurring or just that the records
are “well formed”?

 For  this  specific  case,  there  should  be  other  complementary  criteria  to  this  one,  which
provide more specification of what needs to be implemented. For instance, GDPR article 16
requirements  are  more  demanding than  just  granting  the  right  of  rectification  (e.g.
requirements of delay, to take into account the purpose of the processing). Other criteria
complementing this example might be something that could be accepted. However, the
reasons the individual criterion are separated this way by the scheme owner needs to be
clear and understood because there may be implications for the auditor and if there is a risk
that assessment will be conducted too narrowly when looking at this individual criterion.

 There  can  be additional  criteria  about  for  example  data  integrity.  Assessing  a  criterion
requires to take into account the context since there may be many more criteria that will
specify  the  elements  linked  to  this  criterion.  However,  each  criterion  needs  to  be
autonomously auditable and verifiable, because each non-conformity needs to be raised
based by the auditor on one or several specific criteria. Auditors must apply all applicable
criteria  and  systematically  report  any  identified  non-conformity.  Having  a  general
requirement/statement and then more specific related criteria has to be carefully handled
because if a non-conformity cannot be referred to one of the specific criteria it may lead to
confusion regarding what exact aspect of the requirements the non-conformity concerns.
As a general principle, in case of non-conformity, the criteria should enable the entity to
understand what has to be remediated and improved.

 By default, criteria are to be demonstrated: there is no need to specify that the entity “shall

demonstrate”

Adopted - version for public consultation

12

 Terms  like  “effectively”  should  be  avoided,  as  they  can  be  difficult  to  assess  it  in  a
predictable way. Instead, criteria should define what needs to be measured and what level
of measurement is needed to achieve what the auditor is checking.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

7 NOTICE TO AUDITORS / ASSESSMENT NOTES

Criteria can be supported by a notice to auditors that can clarify how these criteria should be assessed
in varying contexts. Such information can include best practices and/or more detailed information /
explanations directed towards specific interested parties such as auditors or applicants.

A notice for auditors can for example contain more detailed explanations of the criteria or regarding
specificities of certain sectors, countries, technologies or size of organization. If a notice is in place it
has to help auditors to determine the most adequate approach to check certain measures, it can oblige
them  to  perform  certain  verifications  (e.g.  use  of  a  specific  sampling  method  in  a  specific  case,
obligation to check the whole population, etc.) or it has to require certain standards with regard to the
auditor’s documentation of the evaluation activities.

Attention should also be paid to the fact that the content of such a notice should not lead to incorrect
assessment of conformity with the certification criteria.

Example of a possible approach:
The criteria contain the rules to be followed to have an expected result and represent for the auditors
the “control objectives”. Applicants need to make sure that their internal controls or measures be
designed, implemented and operated to allow them to reach these control objectives defined by the
certification criteria. When performing their certification audit, auditors will then check whether the
design, implementation and operation of these controls or measures at the applicant’s organization
comply with the control objectives defined by the certification criteria.8

-

General guidelines for auditors can for example require that evaluation tasks be structured as follows:
Design  and  implementation:  The  auditor  will  look  at  the  design  or  description  of  a
control or measure (for example in the form of a procedure) and verify if it will work in
theory as required by the certification criteria: The auditor will try to determine if it is
designed  to  comply  with  the  certification  criteria.  This  is  an  important  part  in  the
auditor’s work because if an auditor finds major flaws in this step, it is possible and often
likely  that  the  control  or  measure  does  not  work  consistently  as  required  by  the
certification  criterion  in  practice.  For  example,  when  a  procedure  is  not  correctly
documented, or documented for another purpose than the one the criteria is targeted
at,  the  person  performing  the  control  might  start  to  improvise  and  develop  their
approach or perform their procedure inappropriately from what is expected or required
by the criteria.

8 This is a specific approach, some schemes somehow include a step-by-step recipe when following the criteria
(like the Plan-Do-Check-Act of ISO).  In that case, the “rules” have to be followed because they are part of the
criteria. For instance, this is the HLS structure of ISO which is common to lots of widespread management
systems (ISO 9001, 14001, 27001). But there are also other schemes (especially in the service certification
domain) where only an output is expected and it may also be suitable for GDPR certification.  The criteria do
not necessary have to contain such “rules” (although it could very useful to ensure compliance over time).

Adopted - version for public consultation

13

- Operating  effectiveness: After  having  reviewed  the  design  and implementation of  a
control or measure, the auditor will test the operating effectiveness of this control or
measure: He/she will check if the control or measure works in practice as it should or as
documented, through – depending on the type of control – observation, walkthrough,
sampling, interviews, interaction, e.g. with an interface, etc.

46.

This additional information should not:

-

-

refine  the  certification  criteria:    an  information  note  may  clarify  criteria  or  indicate  good
practices, but it should not change the criteria otherwise it would become part of the criteria
itself.  This  would  also  pave  the  way  to  subjective  interpretations  and  applications  of  the
criteria. In other words, this information shall not be seen as an extension of the criteria and
thus considered as a criterion itself.
be too detailed about how to implement the criteria. It’s up to the applicant to implement
measures that fits to his own environment to comply with the criteria.

47. Other considerations:

-

The difference between the audit methodology used for the assessment of criteria and the
“gap analysis” techniques may be underlined. A gap analysis may consist in checking that a
controller or processor has measures to provide for each point of a check list. As a result, the
controller or processor may get scores and improvement suggestions based on the state-of-
the-art. In the case of certification, as well as a check-list with conditions there will also be a
threshold that  shall  be  met  for  each  point of  the  checklist or  criterion.  This means  that
certification is more formal and deterministic than a check list approach. It also does not mean
that this “threshold” cannot take into account the context of the processing but this has to be
specified by the criterion and also how to handle this context.

8 EU DATA PROTECTION SEALS: NATIONAL LEGISLATIONS COVERAGE

48.

As  noted  in EDPB  Guidelines 1/2018,  based  on  Article  42(5), the  mechanism  for  a  European Data
Protection Seal as well as its criteria needs to be customizable in a way as to take into account national
regulations  where  applicable.  This  means  that,  during  the  approval  process,  scheme  designers  or
owners must be able to demonstrate to SAs and the EDPB how the scheme will operate consistently
and effectively in Member States given a comprehensive review and consideration of local conditions,
restrictions, legislation or prerequisites.

49.

In  addition  to  requirements  listed  in the  EDPB Guidelines  01/2018 on  certification  (Section 4.2.2
devoted to European Data Protection Seal criteria), the scheme owner shall also :






provide an explanation of how the list of applicable national specific regulations was setup;
provide an explanation of how the list of national specific regulations to be covered is kept up
to date, including periodic and transparent reviews (for instance, the list may be confirmed by
a legal advisor);
keep version and date records of the list of national regulations.

Adopted - version for public consultation

14

50.

The methodology proposed to demonstrate the compliance to the criteria in the context of national
regulation shall be transparent and repeatable. For general certification schemes, elaborating specific
criteria based on applicable national regulations might be highly complex9.

51.

However, there are possible means for scheme owners to manage this requirement. For instance:







country-specific guidance to assess criteria that are suitable for all Member states may be
provided ;
some criteria may be focused on the application to national regulations, detailing what the
data controller or processor needs to demonstrate and how it will be assessed (e.g. identify
relevant specificities in national data protection regulations that apply to the data processing
of the ToE, define and apply measures to address them, etc);
the  scheme  may  define  a  process  that  involves  group  of  experts that  will  perform  an
assessment of the compliance of the data processing in the ToE with the applicable national
provisions, at the time the CB intends to operate in a Member State. Such a mechanism should
also ensure that these experts are properly qualified and provide consistent and coherent
assessments (for instance a network of experts could be included in the scheme certification
procedures). The  expert  group  process  would  need  to  be  transparent  and  its  assessment
report would have to be made available for scrutiny, on request, by a supervisory authority or
the EDPB.

Role of the Scheme Owner:

52.

As said above, the scheme owner is responsible for establishing adequate mechanisms and procedures
to address the relevant national obligations related to personal data protection in each Member State
where  the  scheme  is  operated. For  instance,  where  the  scheme  owners  leverage  on network  of
experts, it shall require the adequate expertise and shall operate with CBs making use of their scheme
in a timely fashion, and taking account of each MS provisions.

Role of the EDPB:

53.

The  EDPB  works  with  the  competent  SA  and  the  scheme  owner  on  approval  of  criteria  and  the
mechanism that manages use of the Seal in each MS10.

Role of the CB:

54.

The CB remains accountable for the certification activities it undertakes and for ensuring, with the
scheme owner, that its certifications under the scheme account for relevant national provisions. The
CB must be accredited as required with relevant member states accreditation body or SA.

Role of the SA:

9 If the applicable national regulations cannot be easily determined, this may be because the scope of the
scheme is not clear or focussed enough.
10 Approval procedure: Refer to EDPB document on the procedure for the approval of certification criteria by
the EDPB resulting in a common certification, the European Data Protection Seal (available on the EDPB
website https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/procedure/edpb-document-procedure-
approval-certification-criteria-edpb_en)

Adopted - version for public consultation

15

55.

56.

Following EDPB’s procedure (informal phase for EU Data Protection Seal adoption)11 each SA should
check  the  adequacy  /  compliance  with  national  applicable  specific  regulations  of  the  proposed
mechanism and, the proposed criteria.

This is one possible approach. Other means to ensure that EU Seals are “customizable”12 for use in
differing member states are likely to be developed by innovative scheme owners, in conjunction with
SAs and the EDPB, over time.

9 CHANGES AFFECTING CERTIFICATION

1) Scheme  owners  need  to  have  a  process  in  place  to  manage  certification  criteria  updates.  This
process needs to be defined as part of the certification scheme13. Scheme owners shall envisage a
periodical review of their certification schemes.

2) The competent SA is in charge of reviewing updates made to the certification criteria. Therefore,
the scheme should ensure that scheme owners communicate certification criteria updates to the
competent SA and whether they involve (or not) substantial changes to the certification criteria.

3) The competent SA assesses the certification criteria updates. The competent SA may agree (or not)
that the scheme owners’ classification of the updates is correct (see below for details). The scheme
owner revises the scheme, if necessary.

4) The competent SA follows the EDPB procedure related to national certification criteria or EU data

protection seal in order to approve the updates.

57.

The certification criteria updates should be classified as “major” and “minor” updates. Certification
criteria updates  directly  impacting on  the  application  of data  protection requirements and  any
modification that would reduce or weaken existing criteria shall be considered by default as major
updates. Updates for ‘technical’ purposes may often be considered as minor updates.

58.

Amongst others, the following elements may be included when a scheme owner classifies certification
criteria updates:

 Major updates (involving substantial changes of the certification criteria):

-

-

-

Recommendations  in EDPB guidelines that  lead  to  significant  changes for  the
certification criteria related to the scope of the certification;
Court decisions that lead to significant changes for the certification criteria related to
the scope of the certification;
Adoption of delegated acts of the European Commission in accordance with Articles
43(8) and 43(9) impacting the certification criteria;

11 See EDPB document on the procedure for the approval of certification criteria by the EDPB resulting in a
common certification, the European Data Protection Seal.
12 See paragraph 40 of EDPB Guidelines 1/2018 on Certification and Identifying Certification Criteria.
13 Refer to EDPB Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679), section 7.10 of Annex 1 for more details about the content of such a
procedure.

Adopted - version for public consultation

16

-

-
-
-
-

Amendments  to  data  protection legislation (EU  or  national)  that  lead  to  significant
changes for the application of data protection requirements impacting the certification
criteria;
Adding new criteria covering a new objective;
Deleting criteria that removes the coverage of an objective;
Substantially altering existing criteria in any way;
Change of the scope of a certification scheme;

 Minor updates (not involving substantial changes of the certification criteria):

-
-
-

-

-

-

Clarification of language;
Corrigendum;
Adapting criteria following the return of experience on the assessment of criteria (for
example for enhancing consistency amongst certification awarded);
Court decisions that lead to minor changes for the certification criteria related to the
scope of the certification;
recommendations in EDPB guidelines that lead to minor changes for the certification
related to the scope of the certification;
Amendments to data protection legislation (EU or national) that lead to minor changes
for the application of data protection requirements impacting the certification criteria.

59.

60.

61.

Any changes to data protection regulations or court decisions related to data protection shall be taken
into account without delay by scheme owners. The competent SA needs to be informed by the scheme
owners about the criteria updates as fast as possible. The competent SA may in exceptional cases
inform scheme owners about the necessity to update certification criteria.

Ideally the scheme owners should also provide to the competent SA a yearly report containing an
assessment relating to certification criteria updates.

Note: As a priority, controllers and processors seeking or those that have already been awarded a
GDPR certification, must always ensure their continuous compliance with data protection obligations.
At the same time, a granted certification remains valid during possible transition periods (by default
until the next surveillance audit) between any change in data protection requirements and the update
of the certification criteria to reflect those changes. The change procedures to be agreed by the CB
could 
include:  transition  periods,  approvals  process  with  competent  supervisory  authority,
reassessment  of  the  relevant  object  of  certification  and  appropriate  measures  to  revoke  the
certification if the certified processing operation is no longer in compliance with the updated criteria.

10 ACCREDITATION & MULTI-NATIONAL CERTIFICATION

62.

Notwithstanding EU NABs’ own procedures and recognition and accreditation of CBs14, the following
clarification of the EDPB guidelines 1/18 on certification (paragraph 34, 40 & 44) may be useful where
CBs intend to operate in multiple Member States.

14 See for example sections 3.2.3 and 4.2 of European Accreditation document EA-1/22 at [https://european-
accreditation.org/publications/ea-1-22-a/]

Adopted - version for public consultation

17

General consideration:

63.

The examples below discuss various scenario where certification schemes are operated in Member
States and across the EU. However, in each scenario, it should be recalled that certification under GDPR
can  be  granted  only  to  controllers  or  processors  for  identified  processing  activities.  In  order  to
determine to which entity a certificate can be granted, the usual rules to determine if an entity is
controller / processor have to be applied. If during the assessment of a ToE, it is not possible to identify
the controller / processor for the processing in scope, the certification can’t occur for this processing
activity and it must be excluded from the ToE. Organizations can refer to the EDPB “Guidelines 07/2020
on  the  concepts  of  controller  and  processor  in  the  GDPR”  to  identify  their role  in  relation  to  the
processing if personal data.

10.1 Scenario 1: CB established only in country A wants to certify against a national

certification scheme X in countries A, B & C.

CB

Country A
Accreditation

National
certification
scheme

Adoption of the
certification criteria by
country A’s SA

Country B
No accreditation (provided
that the CB in country A
remains responsible for
issuing certifications and
managing certification
activities of its
subsidiaries/offices in
country B and C)
Adoption of the
certification criteria by
country B’s SA

Country C
No accreditation (provided
that the CB in country A
remains responsible for
issuing certifications and
managing certification
activities of its
subsidiaries/offices in
country B and C)
Adoption of the
certification criteria by
country C’s SA

64.

In which country(ies) needs the CB to be accredited?

-

If  the  certification  body  is  only  located  in  country  A,  it  has to be  accredited  in  country  A,
provided that it operates in countries B and C through subsidiaries/offices which not manage

Adopted - version for public consultation

18

and perform certifications autonomously (the same logic apply to certification bodies that
release an EU DP Seal certification).15 16

- Where a CB has a headquarter in a Member State (MS) and other establishments/offices on
the  territories  of  other  MS,  the  accreditation  granted  by  the  SA  competent  for  the
headquarter is sufficient and there is no need to obtain separate accreditations in other MS
by other establishments or offices of the same CB, provided that they issue certifications
under the control of the main establishment of that CB.
It  also  implies  that  depending  on  the  context  of the  establishments/offices  on  several
territories of MS, CB may require several accreditation. This situation has to be assessed on
a case by case basis taking into account the activities of the CB’s establishments/offices (see
scenario 2).

-

65.

In which country(ies) have the certification criteria to be adopted?

-

The certification criteria have to be adopted by the SAs of countries A, B & C.

66.

The SA in country A leads the adoption of the certification criteria under its national initiative. If, taking
account of the scheme criteria and applicable specific national regulations countries B & C adopt the
certification  criteria  subsequent  to its adoption  in  country  A, countries  B  &  C  may  adopt  the
certification criteria X without triggering an EDPB opinion under article 64 of the GDPR and rely on the
opinion given to country A, according with the EDPB’s rule of procedure art. 10.4 that states that “In
accordance with Art 64 (3) GDPR, the Board may decide without undue delay and within a deadline set
by the Chair, not to give an opinion under Art 64 (1) and (2) GDPR, because another opinion on the
same matter may have already been issued.”

67.

Potential  impact: Depending  on  the  scope  of  the  certification,  criteria  may  have  variants  in  the
different countries in order to comply with specific national regulations:

-

-

in  order  to  handle  these  cases,  the  certification  criteria  have  to  cover  the  national
requirements of countries A, B & C before the lead SA triggers an art. 64 procedure
to be successful, country A, B & C have to cooperate during the informal review phase for the
certification criteria X following the EDPB procedures for adopting certification criteria in the
context of a national initiative.

15 The  accreditation  system  of  CBs  envisaged  by  Article  43.1  and  43.3.  GDPR is  carried  out  on  the  basis  of
requirements of Regulation 765/2008 and the additional ones established by SAs which are “competent pursuant
to Articles 55 or 56” under the consistency mechanism (in this regard both letters a) and b) of Article 43.1. and
Article 43.3. refer expressly to Articles 55 or 56 GDPR). This mechanism, according to Articles 63 and 64.1.c) aims
at ensuring the consistent application of the GDPR throughout the EU (see recital 135), i.e. that the accreditation
requirements  are  in  line with  the  GDPR,  and  does  not  entail  any  ‘uniformity’  or  ‘identity’  of  accreditation
requirements for CBs which may differ among MS. Moreover, according to Art. 55.1 GDPR each SA is responsible
for the fulfilment of the tasks and the exercise of the powers in its territory and, according to Art. 57.1.p) and q)
GDPR, every SA in its territory is committed the task of establishing the requirements for accreditation of CBs
(and eventually conducting accreditation of CBs pursuant to Article 43.1.a) GDPR and revoking it, according to
Article 43.7 GDPR, along or not with the NAB).
16 As the accreditation requirements are consistent over the different countries, the risk of forum shopping for
a certification body to be accredited is very low.

Adopted - version for public consultation

19

68. What would be the consequences if country B or country C do not adopt the certification criteria and

the CB certifies an applicant in country B or C?

69.

Nothing forbids the CB to certify an applicant in country B or C, however the SAs from country B or C
would not recognize the certification criteria and therefore the certification would be useless.

10.2 Scenario 2: A certification body may have entities / branches in several member

states of the EU.

70.

Accreditation is required for the entities that are responsible for issuing the certification and managing
the certification activities of its branches. If the branches are only doing support function (example:
collect information, make on-site visits,…) and they do not perform certifications autonomously, they
don’t need an accreditation and cannot award certifications. However, they have to be taken into
account in the accreditation phase of the ‘main’ entity to which they are attached.

Country A

CB X issues certifications

Accreditation required

Branch

Branch

Branch

Country D

CB X’ issues certifications

Accreditation required

Country B

Country C

CB X Branch 1– No certification decision

CB X branch 2– No certification decision

NO accreditation required

NO accreditation required

Adopted - version for public consultation

20

10.3 Scenario 3: “Data controllers” may not be the same legal entity as the corporate

entities of the organisation. “DataCompany Country A” may be the data
controller for personal data processed by “DataCompany (sales) Country B”.

Certificates can only be granted to controller and processor. In this scenario, if DataCompany Country
A is the  controller,  it will  have  to  request  a  certification.  The  certificate  shall  be  delivered  to  the
company that has control over the measures put in place to be compliant with the criteria.

If  DataCompany  (sales)  Country  B  is  qualified  as  a  processor  and  the  certification  schemes  is  also
adapted  to  and  targeting  the  processor,  DataCompany  (sales)  Country  B  could  also  apply  for
certification  in  their  capacity  as  processor. Both  controllers and  processors  may  apply  for
certifications. Therefore, if there are certification schemes targeted both "for controllers" or "for
processor" then “DataCompany Country A” can be certified for the former and “DataCompany
(sales) Country B” for the latter.

10.4 Scenario 4: How to handle certification in a joint controllership scenario?

In the context of certification, the responsibilities in a joint controllership should be clarified in the
joint  controllership  arrangement.  The  EDPB  has  adopted  guidelines  about  how  to  setup  such  an
arrangement: “Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR.

Contractual agreement with the certification body:

The  contractual  agreement  between  a  certification  body  and  an  applicant  has  to  deal  with
responsibilities of each party regarding the activities to be certified.

To ensure clear transparency, a certificate in a joint controllership situation should mention the name
all concerned joint controllers.

It is important that the complete scope of relevant processing (falling into the certification scope) has
to be part of the ToE considerations and determination. Defining in the ToE partial processing that just
belongs to one controller from the joint controllership may not be compatible with the certification
mechanism.

Communication with the competent supervisory authority:

The EDPB guidelines 07/2020 on the concept of controller and processor in the GDPR mention that the
“Joint  controllers  should organize in  the  arrangement  the  way  they  will  communicate  with  the
competent  supervisory  data  protection  authorities”.  Therefore,  the  arrangement  should  include  a
section that deals with the communication with the competent SA regarding certification in the joint
controllership relation.

71.

72.

73.

74.

75.

76.

77.

Adopted - version for public consultation

21

11 RELATION BETWEEN SA & NABS

78.

CBs  may  apply  for  accreditation  in  relation  to  a  specific  certification  scheme.  The  assessment  of
certification schemes is therefore closely linked with the accreditation of CBs which will may fall under
the duty of the SA, the duty of the NAB or a combination of the SA / NAB, depending on the national
legal framework. In this regard, it is important to regulate the cooperation between SAs and NABs with
agreements that clearly identify the responsibilities of each party. From a SA point of view, it should
be ensured that the agreement involves personnel with knowledge of certification mechanisms. From
an NAB point of view, it should be ensured that the agreement involves personnel with knowledge of
data protection compliance. In any case this assessment should take into account:

-
-
-

The scope and objectives of the certification schemes
The certification mechanisms and if applicable any combined ISO standard
The data protection compliance requirements

Adopted - version for public consultation

22

