 

 

 
press release
 
Ansbach, January 26, 2023

 
 

 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision
- press office -
 
Email: presse@lda.bayern.de
 
 
 

Matching the European Data Protection Day on January 28th: video clips from

"Privacy Policy-Easy-Explained" in the central education database of the federal states

accessible

How do I explain to students what data protection means? It's easy and clear: If teachers

If you want to talk to young people about informational self-determination, they can do 18 short videos

and use eleven worksheets that the initiative “Data protection goes to school (DSgzS) together with the

Data protection supervisory authorities in Bavaria, Baden-Württemberg, Hesse and Thuringia as part of an initiative

"Privacy goes to school". The working materials were last placed in the central education database

Mundo recorded. The spokesman for the initiative, Rudi Kramer, is pleased about the recognition for his work in the

Interest of the schools: “We see ourselves confirmed on our way to watching teachers in their everyday work

support and to make our knowledge available in a professional and age-appropriate manner.”

The videos have a length between about 1:30 minutes and almost 6 minutes and deal with, for example

Basics of data protection, what profiling is, what data can be processed by smartphones

and why passwords are important. The worksheets can also be easily edited online as a PDF document

so that unnecessary printing is eliminated.

The senior official at the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Baden-

Wuerttemberg Dr. Jan Wacke says: “Young people move about in the digital world as a matter of course.

With these videos, we offer the opportunity to get to grips with important topics of the

to deal with data protection."

dr Lutz Hasse, State Data Protection Officer from Thuringia, adds: "The videos provide information with less information

Inhibition threshold and offer a helpful introduction to modern data protection for schoolchildren

convey."

The Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Prof. Alexander Roßnagel, says: "The

The inclusion of the data protection video clips in the central education database of the federal states is a great success for the

Project. It recognizes the importance of early education on data protection issues. The young people are

today 'digital natives', it is all the more important to think about data protection from the start."

01/26/2023

The Mundo portal was commissioned by the FWU Institute for Film and Image as part of the DigitalPakt School

of the 16 countries developed. Mundo is a component of the state-wide educational media infrastructure (SODIX).

The federal states can also use the corresponding metadata of the interface to include these offers in their

respective media portals and/or learning management systems in order to share them with teachers and students

to make it even more present. In Bavaria, these materials are now also available in mebis and via log-in

(Parent object BY-00278507).

"We haven't been able to sensitize students on site for a long time. That's why we chose the video shoot

decided, the result of which can now serve as teaching material for teachers and with the help of which

Pupils can inform themselves.”, says Michael Will, President of the Bavarian State Office for

data protection supervision.

Further information

The initiative "Data protection goes to school" (DSgzS), the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision, the

Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and the Thuringian State Commissioner for the

Data protection and freedom of information have published an identical press release.

The video clips were integrated into the federal states’ central education databases in December 2022.

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Baden-Württemberg provides these videos

on his homepage and on his PeerTube instance.

In Thuringia, the videos are available on the TLfDI website.

01/26/2023

