  Wednesday, April 29, 2020 2: Press releases Suddenly video conference - and data protection? The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein informs The contact restrictions due to the corona pandemic continue. For many companies and authorities, this means that professional meetings are held in the form of video or telephone conferences. Video conferences are also used in educational institutions, in personal consultations or support and in honorary posts. What do you have to pay attention to in order to meet the data protection requirements? Marit Hansen, the Schleswig-Holstein State Commissioner for Data Protection, reports on numerous inquiries about video conferences: "In many companies and authorities, video conferences have so far been the rare exception, there was little experience. Initially, the priority was to quickly find solutions for important agreements and agreements. The experience gained can now be used for a sustainable and, above all, data protection-compliant design.” There are various application scenarios for video conferences in companies and authorities. In addition to general data protection requirements, there are special requirements that are aimed at those who organize a video conference on the one hand and the participants on the other. It should also be noted that video conferences are used beyond everyday professional life - for example in educational institutions, but also in online consultations and voluntary associations. In order to provide assistance for the use of video conferences, Hansen's office, the Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein (ULD), publishes the most important rules and measures on the website: "Data protection: Suddenly video conference - and now?" Hansen emphasizes: " Since video conferencing is new to many, not everyone understands the risks involved. There are a number of things to consider, especially in combination with a home office. Technical and organizational security measures are important to protect the participants in video conferences and the content discussed. Transparent moderation functions and previously defined rules of conduct are also helpful.” The ULD's assistance is intended to provide orientation for the near future and serve as a basis for finding long-term solutions. The first online service that comes along doesn't have to be the best - for example, having video conferencing software installed on the server within your organization gives you more control. Hansen advises all companies and authorities that have not yet drawn up written rules or company agreements for the use of video conferencing to do so now. The information from the State Commissioner for Data Protection on topics related to the corona pandemic is provided under the following link and updated regularly: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/corona/ If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: employee data protection, operational data protection, corona, news, press releases, videoArticle with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure