1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00232/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

FACTS

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated February 20, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against ALTERNA OPERADOR INTEGRAL, S.L. with NIF
B87075982 (ENERGY FLIP) (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The complainant states that a change of
electricity supplier without your consent. The former company was
Naturgy, and now it is claimed.

Provides Naturgy invoices and letters and invoices from Flip Energía.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the
documentation provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to transfer it to the claimed entity and request information,
in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights.

In a letter dated March 31, 2020, information is requested from FLIP
ENERGÍA, S.L., (commercial name, ALTERNA) who responds on July 1,
this year stating the following:

First, they state that the respondent does not make commercial calls
in order to promote its services, but rather that this work is subcontracted with
different telemarketing companies.

They add that the claimant contracted the services of the respondent through the
telemarketing company Sycgestion Global Energy, S.L., who used its own database
of data to contact her and promote, as responsible for the
treatment the services of the claimed, and consequently, the responsibility of the
contact with the respondent was from the aforementioned entity and not from the respondent.

That the respondent terminated the contract for the provision of services with

Sycgestion Global Energy, S.L., as stated in the accompanying document.

They point out that the defendant has carried out a series of actions such as the
selection of suppliers that guarantee compliance with the regulations of
data protection, the signing of data transfer contracts and access to data with the
suppliers, where applicable, and training and awareness for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

workers in respect of the principles and obligations contained in the regulations
of data protection.

THIRD: On September 15, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6.1.b) of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent requested an extension of
term and subsequently presented a brief with arguments in which, in summary,
manifested what he considered opportune in defense of his interests, pointing out that the
provider processed the data of your contacts in its own name and on behalf of
through their own commercial networks by means of telephone calls
(telemarketing), acting as data controller and, when a
user was interested in contracting the services of Alterna,
transferred the call to a telemarketer who, acting as the person in charge of the
treatment of Alterna, carried out the verification and recording of the relative call
to the characteristics of the contracted service and the consent given by the client.

That Alterna's actions can only be concluded that it has been diligent and
in accordance with the personal data protection regulations, taking into account that in
In order to guarantee that the personal data flows between Alterna and SYC GESTION
were correctly regulated. That Alterna signed a mixed provision contract
of services in which the transfer of personal data and the commissioning of the
treatment, giving clear and precise work instructions to the Provider both in the
Contract and its Annexes, which are attached to this document as Document No. 1.

For this reason, they want to highlight the good faith that the Company has shown in each

moment.

That Alterna made the appropriate inquiries to clarify the facts
object of the incident and identified a series of irregularities carried out by
part of the Supplier and that allows to conclude that SYC GESTION did not follow its
instructions.

The supplier, as data controller, guaranteed Alterna the
lawful origin of the personal data object of the assignment. Specifically SYC
GESTION undertook to obtain the consent of the interested parties to carry out
out the transfer of data to the Company, for the purpose outlined.

In relation to the role of the Provider in charge of the treatment, as
could be otherwise, in the "Contract for the provision of telemarketing services" and
"Data Access Contract" signed between the parties, regulated the provision of
services with access to data from the Company Provider giving rigorous
compliance with the clause, to article 28 of the RGPD.

The breaches of the Contract, committed by SYC GESTION, are listed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

On the other hand, it states that the company acted with maximum speed and
diligence, since at the time that the claimant's granddaughter, in
representing the claimant, contacted Alterna, on the occasion of
express his willingness to terminate his contract, proceeded immediately to the
imminent cancellation of the debt with the claimant.

Consequently, the claimant remained registered in their systems as
client only for ten days as she was discharged on January 11, 2020.
In this regard, she was discharged from Alterna on January 21, 2020, having been
registered in another marketer by the claimant.

It indicates that there was no type of penalty for the termination of the contract or
for the return of their receipts, with the Company taking charge of the consumption that was
invoiced. A flow of continuous and fluid communication was established with the
claimant, responding at all times to their requirements and once they are
personal data ceased to be necessary for the purpose of the management of the
incident, proceeded to block the personal data of the claimant. In the same
At the time that Alterna became aware of a suspected incident, it contacted
SYC Management requesting information and documentation in this regard, through
different channels of communication, without obtaining any response, which adopted the
appropriate measures in order to avoid that, in the future, other clients reveal
facts such as those reported by the claimant and terminated the contract with SYC
MANAGEMENT on June 26, 2020.

It adds, the measures it has implemented to guarantee quality in the

management of the contracting process.

On the other hand, it considers that there was a valid pre-contractual relationship, all
once there was a contest of wills and carrying out a series of measures
pre-contractual, in accordance with article 6.1b) RGPD or in accordance with article 6.1 a)
GDPR.

Likewise, it states that the breach would be attributable to SYC GESTON, which
the supplier repeatedly failed to comply with the instructions provided by Alterna,
treating the data for which the Company was responsible for the treatment, and must
in this case, SYC Management acquires the status of data controller.

Lastly, it points out that in the event that the filing of the
proceedings in this proceeding, the qualified
decrease in culpability and illegality in the conduct of Alterna, who acted with
the greatest possible diligence, and that, consequently, apply in a subsidiary manner the
article 83 RGPD and 76 LOPDGDD.

FIFTH: On October 16, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/03187/2020, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.

SIXTH: On November 19, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

sanction the claimed party, for an infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83. 5) of the RGPD, with a fine of 50,000 euros.

SEVENTH: Once the proposed resolution was notified, the party complained against submitted a written
of allegations ratifying those made to the Home Agreement, that is: “there is no
but to conclude that the action of my client in this case has been diligent and
in accordance with the personal data protection regulations and this part wants to highlight
Both the quick action and the good faith that ALTERNA has shown in each
time, fulfilling the duty of diligence required, without prejudice to the
corresponding responsibilities that, if applicable, may correspond to the
Supplier. SYC GESTION's action was carried out not only in breach of
flagrantly the contract signed with the Company, but rather, this party considers
accredited contractual bad faith of the aforementioned telemarketing entity, as well as a
fraudulent and potentially fraudulent attitude, which is why this party has
filed the pertinent complaint against the Provider.

In addition, the repeated non-observance of ALTERNA's instructions, in its capacity as
in charge of treatment, necessarily convert SYC GESTION into
responsible for the treatment. My client was the victim of a deception and understood that
there was a contractual relationship with the complainant. However, the error was corrected
with absolute speed, proceeding with total diligence: the data of the complainant is
remained active in the systems for only ten (10) days, proceeding my
represented, as soon as he became aware of the claimant's intention to
change of marketer, to cancel its debt and, subsequently, to block its
personal information. The Company has acted with the highest level of due diligence,
in accordance with its internal procedures, substituting the services of the Provider
by those of other partners who, like the Supplier did, guarantee the strict
compliance with data protection regulations and that are more rigorous in their
task that SYC GESTION. In this sense, my client is immersed in a
audit of processes in order to carry out robust audits of their
suppliers and collaborators. In any case, it should be understood that there is no
of ALTERNA a subjective element of guilt for what would be appropriate
decree the file of this sanctioning procedure. Personal information
affected, correspond mainly to contact and character data
identification, without including in any case, data from special categories of data or
criminal offenses. It is obvious and common sense that the activity of the
Company (like that of any other company) is linked to the treatment of
Personal data. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ALTERNA's activity is not
linked to the infringing treatment of personal data, if not to the supply
energetic. The Company's actions have in no case been intentional, or
fraudulently, nor has he received any type of benefit. Furthermore, he had no intention
any of infringing the data protection regulations, nor of causing damage or harm to
the complainant. That he considers that this writing of
allegations, be served to admit it, and after the appropriate procedures agree to the file
of the referenced file, leaving without effect the procedure initiated against this
trade".
 
In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

FACTS

FIRST: A change of electricity marketer has been carried out without the
consent of the claimant. The previous company was Naturgy, and now it is the
claimed.
 
SECOND: The invoices provided by the claimant show the change of
trading company.

THIRD: The personal data of the claimant were incorporated into the systems
information of the company, without proving that it had contracted
legitimately, had your consent for the collection and treatment
of your personal data, or there is any other cause that makes the
treatment carried out.

  

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The defendant is charged with the commission of an infringement due to infringement
of Article 6 of the RGPD, “Legality of the treatment”, which indicates in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

 The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

The documentation in the file shows that the claimed,
violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it processed the data
claims of the claimant without having any legitimacy to do so. The data
personal data of the claimant were incorporated into the information systems of the
company, without proving that it had contracted legitimately, had
of your consent for the collection and subsequent processing of your data
personal, or there was any other cause that made the treatment carried out lawful.

The personal data of the claimant were recorded in the files of the
claimed and were processed for the issuance of invoices for services associated with the
claimant. Consequently, it has processed personal data without
that has accredited that it has the legal authorization to do so.

It should be noted that the complainant did not adopt any kind of measure or
caution with the subcontracted company to which it entrusted the realization of
contracts, and in this case the inactivity of the claimed party was proven, in the
lack of adoption of measures or precautions.

Article 6.1 RGPD says that the treatment "will be lawful if it is necessary for the

performance of a contract to which the interested party is a party.

It was therefore essential that the respondent accredit before this Agency that
the claimant had contracted the electricity supply with her; that at the time of
recruitment had displayed (through its treatment manager) the diligence
that the circumstances of the case required to ensure that the person who provided
as his bank details and other personal data was effectively his
headline.

The defendant has not provided any document collected from the client at the time

of the contract that allows their identification.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

7/9

In determining the administrative fine to be imposed, the

provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of
data.
h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

v

In accordance with the provisions of the RGPD in its art. 83.2, when deciding to impose
an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case shall be taken into account
aggravating and mitigating factors that are listed in the aforementioned article, as well as
any other that may be applicable to the circumstances of the case.

Consequently, the following have been taken into account as aggravating factors:
The intentionality or negligence of the infraction (art. 83.2 b).

-

- Basic present identifiers are affected (name,

address, bank account number, cups) (art. 83.2 g)

-

The evident link between the business activity of the respondent and the
treatment of personal data of clients or third parties (art. 83.2 k of the
RGPD in relation to art. 76.2 b of the LOPDGDD)

 
Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ALTERNA OPERADOR INTEGRAL, S.L., with NIF
B87075982, for an infringement of Article 6.1.b) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of 50,000 euros (fifty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ALTERNA OPERADOR INTEGRAL,
SL

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

