 

press release

 

Artificial intelligence must serve humans

 

 

Erfurt, June 22, 2021

 
The Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information
(TLfDI), Dr. Lutz Hasse, hereby informs you about the press release of the BfDI
from June 22, 2021:
 
"The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI)
Professor Ulrich Kelber has joined the European Data Protection Board (EDPB)
used to ensure that the use of artificial intelligence (AI) is banned if they
does not respect human personality and dignity. In a statement on
The EDPB emphasizes the draft regulation of the European Commission
outstanding importance of data protection when using AI.
 
The BfDI said: "The European Commission has the world's first draft
for a legal framework for AI. This technology has only just begun
fundamentally change our lives. In addition to the opportunities that arise
but be assured that personal rights, the right to informational
Self-determination and other fundamental rights are not violated by AI. Then
such systems often process personal data that poses major risks
represent the rights and freedoms of people. We don't want AI in the
legal gray area. I advocate a ban on AI that
runs counter to the basic understanding of freedom and democracy.”
 
A lot of work will still be needed before the European Commission's proposal
produces a well-functioning legal framework that sets out the applicable rules on
Data protection such as the General Data Protection Regulation in protecting the
fundamental human rights while effectively complementing AI innovations
encourages. Fundamental questions arise that only
in a wide
to be answered meaningfully in a social dialogue. Besides, it has to
Interaction of the new AI regulation and existing law, in particular the
General Data Protection Regulation and questions regarding the design of supervision and
Legal enforcement of the new AI requirements to be clarified. The press release of
EDSA can be found at: https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2021/edpb-edps-
call-ban-use-ai-automated-recognition-human-features-publicly-accessible_en ."

 
 

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
Fax: 0361 57 3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

 
 

 

