DATA  PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY  POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

To:  MCP Online  Ltd 

Of:  20-22 Wenlock Road,  London, Nl  7GU 

1. 

The Information  Commissioner ("the Commissioner") has  decided  to 

issue MCP Online Ltd ("MCP") with an  enforcement notice  under section 

40 of the  Data Protection Act 1998  ("DPA").  The  notice is  being  issued 

because of a  serious  contravention of regulation 21 and 24 of the 

Privacy and  Electronic Communications (EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003 

(" PECR"). 

2. 

This notice explains  the  Commissioner's  decision. 

Legal  framework 

3. 

MCP,  whose  registered office  is  given  above  (Companies  House 

Registration  Number:  12571050) is  the organisation stated  in this 

notice to  have used  a public electronic communications service for the 

purpose of making  unsolicited calls  for  the purposes  of direct marketing 

contrary to Regulation  21  of PECR and to  have transmitted  unsolicited 

communications  by  means of electronic mail  to  individual subscribers 

for  the purposes  of direct marketing contrary  to  Regulation 22  of  PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies  to  the making  of unsolicited  calls  for direct 

marketing  purposes.  It  means  that if a company wants to  make  calls 

promoting a  product  or  service  to an  individual  who has a telephone 

number which  is  registered  with  the Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 

("TPS"),  then  that individual  must have  notified  the  company that  they 

do not object  to  receiving such  calls  from  it. 

5. 

Regulation 21  paragraph  (1) of PECR  provides that: 

"(1)  A person shall neither use,  nor instigate the use of,  a public 

electronic communications service for the purposes of making 

unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes  where-

(a) 

the called line  is  that of  a  subscriber  who has previously 

notified the  caller that  such  calls  should  not for the time being 

be  made  on  that  line;  or 

(b) 

the  number  allocated to  a subscriber  in respect of the called 

line is  one listed in the register kept under regulation 26." 

6. 

Regulation  21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4)  and (5)  provide that: 

"(2)  A  subscriber shall not permit his line  to  be used in contravention 

of paragraph  (1). 

(3)  A  person shall not be  held to  have contravened  paragraph  (1)(b) 

where the  number allocated  to the called  line has  been listed on  the 

register for  less than 28  days  preceding  that  on  which the  call  is 

made. 

2 

(4)  Where  a subscriber  who  has  caused  a number allocated to a  line  of 
his to  be  listed in  the  register kept under regulation 26  has  notified 
a caller that he  does not,  for the  time  being,  object  to such calls 
being made on  that line  by that caller,  such calls may be made  by 
that caller on that line, notwithstanding that  the number allocated 
to  that line  is  listed in the said register. 

(5) Where a  subscriber has given  a caller notification  pursuant to 

paragraph (4) in relation to a line of his-

(a)  the  subscriber shall be free  to  withdraw  that notification at 

any  time,  and 

(b) where  such  notification  is withdrawn,  the  caller  shall  not 
make  such calls on  that line." 

7. 

Regulation  24 of PECR  provides: 

"(1)  Where  a public  electronic  communications  service is used  for the 

transmission of a  communication for  direct marketing  purposes 

the person using,  or instigating the use of,  the service  shall 

ensure  that the  following information is provided  with  that 

communication 

-

(b) 

in  relation  to a  communication  to  which  regulation 21 

[or 21A] (telephone  calls)  applies,  the particulars 
mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) and,  if the recipient of 

the  call so  requests,  those mentioned  in  paragraph 
(2)(b). 

3 

(2)  The particulars referred to in  paragraph  (1) are  -

(a) 

the name  of the person; 

(b) 

either the address of the  person  or a telephone 

number on  which  he  can be reached free  of  charge." 

8. 

Under regulation  26  of  PECR,  the Commissioner is required to  maintain 

a register of numbers allocated to subscribers  who have  notified them 

that  they  do  not  wish,  for  the  time being,  to  receive  unsolicited  ea 11s for 

direct  marketing purposes  on those lines.  The Telephone  Preference 

Service  Limited  ("TPS")  is  a  limited  company  which operates the 

register on the Commissioner's behalf.  Businesses  who  wish  to  carry 

out direct  marketing by  telephone  can  subscribe  to  the TPS  for a fee 

and receive from  them  monthly a  list  of  numbers on  that register. 

9. 

Regulation 22 of PECR states: 

"(1)  This regulation  applies  to  the transmission  of unsolicited 

communications  by means of electronic  mail  to individual 

subscribers. 

(2)  Except  in the circumstances  referred to in paragraph  (3),  a 

person  shall neither transmit,  nor instigate the  transmission of, 

unsolicited communications for the  purposes of direct  marketing by 

means  of  electronic mail  unless  the  recipient of the  electronic  mail 

has previously notified the  sender  that  he  consents  for  the time 

being to such communications  being sent by,  or at the instigation 

of,  the sender. 

(3) A person may send or instigate  the  sending of electronic mail 

for the purposes of  direct marketing  where-

4 

(a)  that person  has obtained the  contact  details of the 

recipient of that electronic  mail in the  course of the  sale or 

negotiations for the  sale  of a product or  service to  that 

recipient; 

(b) the  direct  marketing is in respect  of that person's  similar 

products and  services only;  and 

(c) the recipient has been  given a simple means of refusing 

(free of charge except for the costs of the transmission  of the 

refusal) the  use of his  contact  details for the purposes of such 

direct marketing,  at the  time  that the  details  were initially 

collected,  and,  where he did not initially refuse  the  use of the 

details,  at the  time  of each  subsequent communication. 

(4) A  subscriber  shall  not permit his line to  be  used in 

contravention  of paragraph (2)." 

10.  Regulation  23  of  PECR  states: 

"A  person  shall  neither transmit,  nor instigate the transmission  of,  a 

communication  for the  purposes of direct  marketing by means of 

electronic  mail 

(a)  where  the identity of the  person on  whose  behalf the 

communication  has been  sent  has  been  disguised or  concealed; 

(b)  where  a  valid  address  to  which  the  recipient of  the 
communication  may  send  a request that  such communications 

cease  has not been  provided; 

(c)  where  that  electronic  mail  would contravene  regulation  7 of the 

Electronic  Commerce  (EC  Directive)  Regulations 2002;  or 

(d)  where that electronic  mail encourages recipients to  visit 

websites  which  contravene  that  regulation.'' 

5 

11.  Section  122(5)  of  the  DPA18 defines  direct  marketing as "the 

communication 

(by whatever means) 

of any advertising 

material 

which 

is directed 

to particular 

individuals". 

This definition also applies for the 

purposes  of  PECR  (see  regulation  2(2)  PECR  & Schedule  19  paragraphs 

430  & 432(6)  DPA18). 

12. 

From  1 January  2021,  consent in  PECR has been defined  by reference 

to  the concept  of  consent  in the  UK GDPR  as  defined  in  section  3(10)  of 

the  DPA  2018[1]:  see Regulation  2(1)  of  PECR,  as  amended  by Part 3 

of Schedule 3,  paragraph  44  of The  Data Protection,  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU  Exit) Regulations 

2019/419.  Article  4(11) of the UK  GDPR  sets  out the following 

definition:  '"consent' 

of the data subject 

means any freely 

given, 

specific, 

informed 

and unambiguous 

indication 

of the data subject's 

wishes  by 

which he or she, by a statement  or 

by a clear affirmative 

action, 

signifies 

agreement 

to the processing 

of personal 

data relating 

to him or her". 

13.  Recital  32  of the UK  GDPR  materially  states that  "When the processing 

has multiple 

purposes, 

consent 

should be given for all of them". Recital 

42 materially provides that  "For consent 

to be informed, 

the data 

subject 

should be aware at least of the identity 

of the controller". 

Recital 43  materially  states  that  "Consent 

is presumed 

not to be freely 

given if it does not allow separate 

consent 

to be given to different 

personal 

data processing 

operations 

despite 

it being appropriate 

in the 

individual 

case". 

14. 

"Individual" is  defined  in regulation 2(1) of PECR  as  "a living individual 

and includes 

an unincorporated 

body of such individuals". 

6 

15.  A "subscriber" is  defined in regulation  2(1)  of PECR as "a  person  who  is 

a  party  to a  contract  with a provider  of public electronic 

communications services for the  supply  of such services". 

16. 

"Electronic  mail" is  defined in  Regulation  2(1)  of  PECR  as  "any  text, 
voice,  sound or image  message sent  over a  public electronic 

communications network  which can be stored  in the network or  in  the 

recipient's  terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 

includes messages sent using a short  message service". 

17.  The  term  "soft opt-in" is  used to describe the  rule set out in  in 

Regulation 22(3)  of  PECR.  In  essence,  an  organisation  may  be  able  to 

e-mail its  existing customers even if they  haven't specifically  consented 

to electronic  mail.  The soft  opt-in  rule can  only  be relied upon  by the 

organisation  that collected the contact details. 

18.  The  DPA contains enforcement  provisions  at Part  V which  are 

exercisable  by  the  Commissioner.  Those  provisions  are  modified  and 

extended  for  the  purposes of  PECR  by  Schedule  1  PECR. 

19.  Section 40(1)(a)  of the  DPA (as  extended  and modified  by  PECR) 

provides  that  if  the  Commissioner is  satisfied that  a person  has 

contravened or  is  contravening  any  of the  requirements  of the 

Regulations,  he  may  serve  him with an  Enforcement Notice  requiring 

him  to  take within such time as  may  be  specified  in  the  Notice,  or to 

refrain from  taking after such time as  may  be so specified,  such steps 

as  are  so specified. 

20. 

PECR  were enacted to  protect the  individual's  fundamental  right  to 

privacy  in the  electronic  communications  sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently  amended and strengthened.  The Commissioner  will 

7 

interpret  PECR in a  way  which is consistent with  the Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring high levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

2 1 .   The  provisions of  the  DPA remain i n  force  for the purposes  of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction  of  the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58( 1)  of 

Schedule  20  to  the  DPA18. 

The contravention 

22.  The  Commissioner  finds  that  MCP contravened Regulations  21,  22,  23 

and 24  of  PECR. 

23.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention  was as follows: 

24.  Between  1  January  2022  and 28 September 2022,  MCP used a  public 

telecommunications service  for the purposes of making  20,939 

unsolicited calls for  direct  marketing purposes to subscribers where  the 

number allocated  to the subscriber in  respect  of  the called line was  a 

number  listed  on  the register  of  numbers  kept  by  the  Commissioner in 

accordance with Regulation  26,  contrary to Regulation  21( l)(b)  of 

PECR. This  resulted in  five  complaints  being  made  to the TPS  and  the 

Commissioner. 

25.  The  Commissioner  is also satisfied for the purposes  of  Regulation 2 1  

that these  20,939  unsolicited direct  marketing calls  were  made to 

subscribers  who  had registered with the TPS at least  28  days  prior to 

receiving  the calls,  and who  for  the pu rposes of Regulation  21(4)  had 

not notified  MCP  that  they did  not object to receiving  such  calls. 

8 

26. 

For such  notification  to be valid under regulation  21(4),  the individual 

must have taken a  clear and positive action to override their TPS 

registration  and indicate  their willingness  to  receive  marketing calls 

from the company. The notification should reflect  the  individual's 

choice about whether or not they  are willing to receive marketing calls. 

Therefore,  where signing  up  to use  a  product or service  is conditional 

upon receiving marketing  calls,  companies will need to demonstrate 

how  this constitutes a clear and positive  notification  of the individual's 

willing ness to receive such calls. 

27.  The  notification must clearly  indicate the individual's willingness t o  

receive marketing calls specifically.  Companies  cannot rely on 

individuals opting  in to marketing  communications generally, unless it 

is clear that this will include telephone calls. 

28. 

Further,  the notification  must  demonstrate the individual's willingness 

to  receive marketing  calls from that company specifically.  Notifications 

will  not be valid for the  purposes of reg ulation 21( 4)  if individuals are 

asked to agree to  receive marketing  calls from  "similar organisations", 

"partners",  "selected third  parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

29.  MCP has provided  no evidence to the Commissioner  that  it had 

obtained notifications from  subscribers who were  registered with 

TPS/CTPS  that  they  did not object  to receiving  unsolicited direct 

marketing  calls. 

30. 

Further,  MCP failed,  as  required by Regulation 24  of PECR,  to provide 

the  recipient of the  calls with  the  particulars  specified at Regulation 

24(2) of  PECR. 

9 

31.  The  Commissioner also finds that between  1 January  2022 and  28 

September  2022  there were  92,265 direct marketing SMS  messages 

received  by  subscribers.  The  Commissioner finds that  MCP  transmitted 

the direct  marketing  messages  sent,  contrary to Regulation  22  of 

PECR. 

32.  MCP,  as the sender of the direct marketing,  is required to ensure that it 

is acting in compliance with  the  requirements of Regulation  22 of  PECR, 

and to  ensure that valid  consent to  send  those  messages  had  been 

acquired. 

33.  The Commissioner's  investigation has not found any evidence to 

indicate that MCP had  prior consent or could satisfy  the  soft opt in 

criteria when sending  marketing  messages,  which  resulted  in  386  spam 

text complaints  being generated via the  spam text reporting tool.  The 

URLs provided in  the  marketing messages  linked to websites that did 

not clearly explain  who the data controller was. 

34.  The  Commissioner has considered,  as  he is required to do  under 

section  40(2) of the  DPA 1998  (as extended  and  modified  by PECR) 

when  deciding whether to serve an  Enforcement Notice,  whether any 

contravention has caused or is  likely  to  cause  any person damage. The 

Commissioner has decided  that  it is unlikely that damage has  been 

caused  in  this  instance. 

35. 

In view of the  matters referred to  above the  Commissioner hereby 

gives notice that,  in  exercise of his powers  under section 40 of the 

DPA,  he requires  MCP to take  the steps  specified  in Annex  1  of this 

Notice. 

1 0  

Right of Appeal 

36.  There is a  right of appeal against this Notice  to  the First-tier Tribunal 

(Information  Rights), part of the  General  Regu latory  Chamber. 

Information 

about appeals 

is set out in the attached 

Annex 2. 

Dated the 28th day of September 2023. 

Signed  . 

Andy  Curry 
Head of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 SAF 

1 I 

ANNEX 1 

TERMS OF THE  ENFORCE MENT NOTICE 

MCP  shall within  30  days  of  the date of this  notice: 

•  Neither use,  nor  instigate  the use of,  a  public electronic 

comomunications  service  for the  purposes  of making unsolicited  calls 

for direct  marketing  purposes  where the called line is  that of: 

(a)  a subscriber who  has previously  notified  MCP that such calls 

should  not be made on that line;  or 

(b)  a subscriber who has registered  their number with the TPS  or 

CTPS at least 28 days  previously  and who has not notified  MCP 

that  they do not object to such calls  being made. 

•  Furthermore,  where a  public electronic communications service  is 

used  for the  transmission of a communication for direct marketing 

purposes,  MCP  shall  ensure that the  recipient of the communication 

is  provided with : 

(a) the  name of the person;  and if the  recipient so  requests, 

(b) either the address of the person  or a telephone  number on 

which he  can  be reached free  of charge. 

•  Except  in  the circumstances referred  to  in  paragraph  (3)  of 

Reg ulation  22 of  PECR,  neither  transmit, nor instigate the 

transmission  of,  unsolicited  communications for  the purposes of 

direct m arketing  by  means  of  electronic  mail unless  the rec ipient of 

1 2  

the electronic mail has previously  notified  MCP that he clearly  and 

specifically  consents for the time being to such  communications 

being sent by,  or at the  instigation  of,  MCP. 

1 3  

ANNEX 2 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section 48 of the Data Protection  Act 1998 gives any person upon 

whom  an enforcement notice has been served  a right of appeal to the 

First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the "Tribunal") against the 

notice. 

2. 

If  you decide to appeal  and if the Tribunal considers :-

a) 

that the notice against which the appeal  is brought is not i n  

accordance with  the law;  or 

b) 

to the extent  that the notice involved  an  exercise of discretion  by 

the Commissioner,  that  h e  ought to  have exercised  his discretion 

differently, 

the Tribunal will  allow the  appeal  or  substitute  such other decision  as 

could have  been  made by  the  Commissioner.  In any  other  case the 

Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring an  appeal by serving a  notice of appeal  on the Tribunal 

at the following add ress: 

General  Regulatory  Chamber 
H M  Couorts  & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box 9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

Telephone:  0203 936  8963 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov. uk 

1 4  

•  The  notice  of appeal should be served  on  the Tribunal within  28 

days of the date on which the enforcement notice was sent 

4. 

The statutory  provisions concern ing appeals to  the First-tier Tribunal 
(General  Regulatory  Chamber)  are  contained  in  sections 48  and 49 of, 
and Schedule 6 to,  the Data  Protection  Act  1998,  and Tribunal 
Procedure  (First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules 
2009  (Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

1 5  

