1/14

 File No.: PS/00442/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) on 06/03/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directs against NATIONAL AGENCY FOR ASSESSMENT OF QUALITY AND
ACCREDITATION with NIF S2801299E (hereinafter, ANECA). The reasons in which
the claim is based on are as follows:

-That, in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution of December 17, 2020
of the General Secretariat of Universities, submitted to ANECA a request for
evaluation of their research activity.

-That the result of the Resolution of the Plenary of the National Commission be communicated
Research Activity Evaluator (CNEAI), whose evaluation is negative, and
Attached as motivation for this resolution is the Report of the Advisory Committee, but, in
Instead of just giving you their report, they send you a 58-page document in
which, in addition to his, appear 28 more Reports.

Together with the claim, the claimant party did not provide any evidence or document
to justify your claim, so on 06/24/2021, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection (hereinafter, AEPD) rejected the
claim.

SECOND: On 07/12/2021, the claimant filed an Appeal for
Replacement against the resolution of inadmissibility, contributing with the same various
reports issued by ANECA on behalf of different people, as well as a written
signed by the Head of the Quality Unit acknowledging the error made, and
It is communicated that they have proceeded to adopt the necessary measures to guarantee that
a similar incident will not occur again.

THIRD: On 08/18/2021, the Director of the AEPD estimates the Appeal for
Replacement, being notified to the complaining party on 08/30/2021

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
question, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

BACKGROUND

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

This investigation is based on the claim filed on June 3,
2021 by A.A.A. (hereinafter, claimant party), being as claimed the AGENCY
NATIONAL QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND ACCREDITATION (hereinafter,
ANECA) and which gave rise to procedure E/07213/2021.

On April 4, 2022, within the framework of AI/00138/2022, it was decided to
information request to ANECA. In this requirement,
information marked by the following line of research:

- Know details about the notification of the security incident to all

affected.

information.

- Know the details about the aforementioned internal leak procedure

- Know the details about the existence of a documentary record of the incident.
-

Have more information about the possible permanence of the erroneous report in
the files of ANECA of the people affected.

On April 19, 2022, with registry entry REGAGE22e00013723923,
receives a response to this request, which is analyzed in the section “result of
investigative actions”.

INVESTIGATED ENTITIES

During these proceedings, the following entity has been investigated:
 
NATIONAL QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND ACCREDITATION AGENCY with NIF
S2801299E

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

In relation to the response received from ANECA to the request for
information and that gave rise to the entry REGAGE22e00013723923, it is concluded:

- ANECA confirms that it did send notification of the incident to the different
affected dated June 8, 2021 through emails issued
from the cneai-comunicacion@aneca.es account. In this mail it was provided
the next information:

1. That during the notification process of six-year research periods of
the 2020 Call, several reports of the Advisory Committee of the field 09
were generated incorrectly by ANECA's computer application called
“CNEAI management application”, and instead of providing the information
of each request, in each report the information of other
negative requests from field 09, without any type of error.

2. That as soon as ANECA became aware of this fact, they contacted
implement all relevant technical and organizational measures to
solve it, following the steps marked by the PROCEDURE
INTERNAL INFORMATION LEAK in order to guarantee the
data protection regulations, analyzing whether there had been
security breach that must be notified to the AEPD and the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

affected people, adopting additional measures to
ensure that a similar incident does not happen again.

- We are provided with the internal information leakage procedure, this
procedure is marked by a series of phases to be carried out to
manage a security incident, the content of
each of them:

(…)

- They confirm that ANECA followed the information leak procedure

previously summarized.

- In relation to the description of the facts, they provide us with:

1. That for the 2020 call for six-year terms CNEAI, a
series of developments for the web application with which it has been managed
Until now, this procedure, called "Management application
CNEAI”. These developments mainly consist of integrating the
old six-year evaluation application with the ACCEDA system,
of the General Secretariat of Digital Administration (SGAD). For the
communication of the resolutions to the citizen, a
process that notifies several PDF files through the platform
ACCESS, one of these files with the result of the assessment. The
generation of this document as such SI is a new development. In
In case the resolution is negative, another
file with the report of the committee, containing the observations of
each contribution, the generation of this document is NOT a new
developing. The generation of these files should be unique for each
request, and tests were performed in a pre-production environment without
find strange behavior.

2. That on June 2 they carried out a test with few files in

the production environment and verified that everything was correct.

3. That on the same day, June 2, they launched the process to notify the

field resolutions 09.

4. That for said field there were 26 negative resolutions out of 26
people and that the code that generated the committee report was executed
for each request (this code was not part of the new development).
5. That the same day, June 2, they receive an email from a
of people notified indicating the error in the PDF file
received. Verifying by ANECA the error in the generation of the
file for field 09, stopping the process immediately
for the rest of the fields.

6. That the generated file contained 29 reports that corresponded to 26

files and 26 affected.

7. That they looked for an alternative way to generate correctly and
individualized the reports, proceeding to their correct notification in
around 12:53 p.m. the same day. It is confirmed to us that ANECA
solved the incident on the same day and that the
technical measures to prevent it from happening again.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

8. That in ACCEDA the erroneous reports were eliminated and the
correct, however, they indicate that in ACCEDA the
first erroneous notifications made with the erroneous file
attached to each notification, that ANECA does not have the appropriate roles
in ACCESS to delete this information and that it was requested with, date
June 4, 2021, to ACCESS technical support for removal.

9. That the COMUNICA-BRECHA tool of this Agency was used
to assess the obligation to inform affected persons,
taking into account the following information:

 That the filtered data is identifying data (name,

surnames and NIF) as well as data on their professional situation.

 That the gap is detected on June 2, 2021.
 That the number of people affected is small and that

there had been a similar incident.

10. They indicate that they accept the mistake made, but that they trust the 26
affected recipients in the sense that they will not misuse the
information received, which means that the consequences of the failure are not
are serious when the probability of risk is eliminated. Secondly,
indicate that the impact for the people affected is not high, with
inconveniences that are easy to overcome, such as the discomfort generated,
reason why they conclude that there is no high risk for the rights and
freedoms of those affected.

11. They tell us that it is not appropriate to notify the notification of the breach before the
AEPD because they understand that it is unlikely that the gap constitutes a
risk to the rights and freedoms of the people affected. Of the
In the same way, they justify that it is not necessary to notify the breach to the
affected people.

12. However, for the sake of transparency, they indicate that ANECA sent
email to those affected explaining what happened, informing the
solution of the incidence and urging them to please eliminate the
reports received in error.

13. They indicate that ANECA's DPD has proceeded to
document the incident in the ANECA Breaches Registry, we
they provide a copy of this record and it is verified that it actually appears
this information.

14. They indicate that, as the main improvement measure, it is determined that
you should expand the test data set to cover a larger
range of possibilities and casuistries to test, before its execution
real.

15. That in relation to the erroneous notifications that continue to be
accessible in ACCEDA, on August 12, 2021 they received
response from the SGAD indicating that ACCEDA does not provide the
service to eliminate the procedures, files and documents, for
what in the notifications/communications section will continue to appear
next to the notification made.

CONCLUSIONS

- ANECA assumes the error that gave rise to the claim, confirming that
It was caused by failures in the application module that generated the files, after
having previously uploaded new versions of other application modules

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

to production, and having passed a series of tests previously. What
measure of improvement assume that the range of casuistries of
tests to be carried out prior to production start-up, so
deduces that the tests carried out were not exhaustive.

- No notification is made to the AEPD as it is considered unlikely that
there is a risk to the rights and freedoms of the people affected. Of the
In the same way, they indicate that it is not appropriate to notify the affected people,
However, they send mail to each affected with information on what happened and the
solution given, this shipment was made on June 8, 2021.
The erroneous files remain in ACCESS. ANECA contacted SGAD
to proceed with its elimination, but they answered that the platform does not provide the
service to delete the documents so in the section “notifications
done” continue to appear.

-

FOURTH: On May 19, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and Article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Once notified of the initiation agreement, ANECA submitted a pleadings brief in which, in
synthesis stated:

-That ANECA applied the technical measures it considered pertinent and appropriate to the
risk, thus complying with article 32 of the RGPD. Accordingly, before
to proceed with the sending of notifications with the evaluation reports, had been
tested in a pre-production environment without finding behaviors
strangers. That, among the technical measures taken, a prior check was made to
guarantee the security of the data and the proper functioning of the new headquarters
electronic and of the new evaluation application were six-year terms, not finding
any abnormal operation.

In this regard, this Agency considers that the measures taken by ANECA
were not appropriate to guarantee an adequate level of security at
risk, as established in article 32 of the RGPD, since, in
In fact, it has been established that the negative reports in the
field 09 of the CNEAI management application, were not generated automatically.
individually for each applicant, giving rise to the incident substantiated in the
present sanctioning procedure.

-That always keeping in mind to guarantee adequate security in the treatment of
data, as prescribed in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, and evaluating the adequacy of the
technical and organizational measures to be taken to guarantee a level appropriate to the risk
of data assurance, as prescribed in article 32.1 of the RGPD, it was decided
make a first notification of results in a field with few evaluations
negative, specifically, field 09, of the total of 14 existing scientific fields, and
that was when a failure occurred in the computer application, not detected
previously, and the 26 files were sent to the 26 people affected, a fact that
regrets, as was communicated to said persons.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

 

In this regard, this Agency refers to what has already been stated in relation to the
previous allegation, in the sense of emphasizing that the measures were not
adequate. It is also worth mentioning recital 28 of the RGPD, according to which:

“The application of pseudonymization to personal data can
reduce risks to affected stakeholders and help stakeholders
responsible and those in charge of the treatment to comply with their
data protection obligations.

-That ANECA considers that it complied with the provisions of article 33.1 of the RGDP, in the
extent to which he made an assessment of what happened and considered it to be
unlikely that the security breach that had taken place constituted a risk
for the rights and freedoms of the natural persons affected, which is why it does not
notification was made to the AEPD, in accordance with the provisions of said
precept.
To carry out this evaluation, follow the steps that appear in your procedure.
internal, which include the recommendations that the AEPD itself has been giving, which
states that “Notifying all personal data breaches is not mandatory, given
that the RGPD provides for an exception to this obligation when, in accordance with the principle of
proactive responsibility, the controller can ensure that it is unlikely that the
breach of personal data entails a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
Physical persons".

In this regard, and taking into account that in this Procedure
Penalty has not been imputed infringement for breach of article 33
of the RGPD, this agency has nothing to add.

-That upon concluding that it was not likely that the security breach produced
would constitute a “HIGH” risk for the rights and freedoms of natural persons
affected, nor did they have to take any action to protect themselves or minimize
the consequences derived from the actions of this Organism, was why it was
affirms that it was not appropriate to carry out notification to them, as established by the
article 34 of the RGPD. And, nevertheless, ANECA wanted to be transparent, give
explanations and apologize, and, even considering that she was not involved in
the obligation to make the notification of a breach of personal data to the
affected people, he preferred to inform all of them about what happened and express his
upset about what happened.

In this regard, and taking into account that in this Procedure
Penalty has not been imputed infringement for breach of article 34
of the RGPD, this agency has nothing to add.

That the existence of mitigating elements must be taken into account, such as the
short duration of the breach, how quickly issues were detected and remediated
facts, the small number of people affected and the level of damages
suffered, as well as the categories of personal data that were seen
affected, which were in no case sensitive data, taking into account the
group in question. It also states that there was no intention to
part of ANECA, which took the precise measures that were considered pertinent to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

mitigate possible damage, also complying with the steps established by the
regulations regarding how to act in the event of a possible breach of personal data.
Likewise, it indicates that there have been no more cases and the application “Gestión de CNEAI”
works properly, no other leaks or leaks have been known to exist.
data protection claim.

In this regard, this Agency points out that, when setting the sanction
corresponding to the infractions imputed in a procedure
Sanctioning, all factors are always taken into consideration
concurrent.

FIFTH: On June 30, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing:

 That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection imposes
NATIONAL QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND ACCREDITATION AGENCY, with
NIF S2801299E, for an infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection imposes
NATIONAL QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND ACCREDITATION AGENCY, with
NIF S2801299E, for an infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.4 of the RGPD a sanction of warning.

SIXTH: Once the proposed resolution has been notified, ANECA presents a new written
allegations dated 07/20/2022, in which it mainly reiterates those already presented
to the Initiation Agreement and add that:

-They did not consider the application viable, in this evaluation procedure
of six-year terms, of measures such as the pseudonymization of personal data, taking into account
not only to the context and purpose of the treatment but also to the technical means with
those available in that Agency.

-It should also be noted that article 32 of the RGPD also states that among the
measures to apply for data security is the ability to
quickly restore the availability and access to personal data in the event
physical or technical incident, which has been shown to have occurred in this case,
where just in a few hours the technical incident that occurred was solved.

-In addition to the above, when evaluating the level of security and the measures taken to avoid
risks in the computer developments practiced that have been mentioned, it is
important to pay attention to the fact that it is a non-vulnerable group on which the
Twenty-first additional provision of Organic Law 4/2007, of April 12, by
which modifies Organic Law 6/2001, of December 21, on Universities,
establishes that the consent of university staff will not be required
for the publication of the results of the evaluation processes of its activity
teaching, research and management carried out by the university or by the agencies or
public evaluation institutions.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is accredited that the claimant submitted an application to ANECA
evaluation of their research activity.

SECOND: It is proven that when communicating to the complaining party the result of
the Resolution of the Plenary Session of the National Activity Evaluation Commission
Researcher (CNEAI), whose assessment was negative, was attached as motivation for
this resolution the Report of the Advisory Committee, a 58-page document in which,
In addition to its own report, there are 28 more corresponding to different
people.

THIRD: It is proven that during the notification process of six-year terms of
Call 2020 research, various Field Advisory Committee reports
09, (negative resolutions), were generated incorrectly by the ANECA computer application
called "CNEAI management application", and instead of providing the information of
each request, information from other negative requests was included in each report
from field 09.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

In relation to the arguments presented to the resolution proposal, ANECA
substantially repeats those already presented in the initiation agreement, adding that:

II

1-This Body has not considered that the application would be viable, in this
six-year evaluation procedure, of measures such as the pseudonymization of
personal data, taking into account not only the context and purpose of the treatment, but
in addition to the technical means with which they are available in this Organism.
But it should also be noted that article 32 of the RGPD also states that among the
measures to apply for data security is the ability to
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

quickly restore the availability and access to personal data in the event
physical or technical incident, which has been shown to have occurred in this case,
where just in a few hours the technical incident that occurred was solved.

-In this regard, this agency considers that, even when the incident
resolved quickly, the sending of reports of negative results had already been
carried out, therefore, even when measures have subsequently been taken
that may be more efficient, at the time of the incident
the established measures were insufficient, in accordance with what is established
Article 32 of the GDPR.

Likewise, it is indicated that the pseudonymization of data is an example of a measure
tending to avoid exposure of personal data, which, effectively, each
responsible or in charge of data must assess for its implementation, not
intending this agency to consider it tax, but a mere indication, and
not basing the breach of article 32 RGPD on its absence, but on the
verification of the insufficiency of all the measures adopted.

2-When evaluating the level of security and the measures taken to avoid risks in the
computer developments practiced that have been mentioned, it is important to attend to
that it is a non-vulnerable group on which the Additional Provision
twenty-first of Organic Law 4/2007, of April 12, which modifies the
Organic Law 6/2001, of December 21, on Universities, establishes that it will not be
The consent of the personnel of the universities is required for the publication of the
results of the evaluation processes of their teaching, research and
management carried out by the university or by public agencies or institutions of
evaluation.

-In this regard, this agency points out that, although the aforementioned provision
 “Even so, it will not be necessary
additional, in its point 4 it establishes:
consent of the university personnel for the publication of the
results of the evaluation processes of their teaching activity,
research and management carried out by the university or by the agencies or
public evaluation institutions”, it cannot be applied to the present case, given
that the publication of the RESULT of the activity of the
claimant party and other teachers, but what has been sent by
email to each of them is the FULL REPORT, with all
the data, and not only the result, positive or negative, of the same, both
own as well as the rest of those evaluated negatively, so it cannot
take this provision into account.

Article 5.1.f) “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

III

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is stated that the personal data of those affected, contained in the
ANECA database, were unduly exposed to a third party, since the
complaining party has provided to the file a copy of reports issued in the name of
other people, which he received along with his own.

From the investigation carried out in this proceeding, it is concluded that ANECA
has violated the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, by sending jointly to
each of the applicants the reports of 26 people in which the data is recorded
personal to each of them.

Article 83.5 of the RGPD, under the heading "General conditions for the imposition
of administrative fines” provides:

IV

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

Article 83 section 7 of the RGPD provides the following:

v

“7. Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

For its part, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
(…)

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

Article 32 “Security of treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

SAW

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

In the present case, at the time of the breach, ANECA was using a
computer application for the generation of reports that, instead of generating a
report for each individual request, generated information at the same time
corresponding to other requests, revealing, therefore, data
of various applicants to each of them, since each applicant
received, at the same time as his own report, the one corresponding to the rest of the
applicants.

Article 83.4 of the RGPD, under the heading "General conditions for the imposition
of administrative fines”, provides:

7th

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
of the treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.
 (…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

viii

13/14

Article 83 section 7 of the RGPD provides the following:

“7. Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

For its part, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
(…)

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

IX

FIRST: IMPOSE the NATIONAL QUALITY ASSESSMENT AGENCY AND
ACCREDITATION, with NIF S2801299E, for a violation of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

IMPOSE the NATIONAL QUALITY ASSESSMENT AGENCY AND
ACCREDITATION, with NIF S2801299E, for a violation of Article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the NATIONAL AGENCY OF
QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND ACCREDITATION.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

