1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00006/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 21, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one) by the
installation of a video surveillance system located in a building on STREET
***ADDRESS.1 (ASTURIAS), with indications of a possible breach of the
provided in the data protection regulations.

The claim is based on the following grounds:

“Installation of recording surveillance cameras that are oriented towards places
of public domain that record the rest of the users of the road and without the corresponding
identification on the corresponding poster of before whom to exercise the right of
recording protection. Attached are 3 photos of the cameras installed and the
incomplete poster.

Together with the claim, it provides a photographic report.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being notified on 11/28/2019.

On 12/27/2019, there was a written reply to the claimant with the following
contents:

"[…]Second. - Information provided on the existence of a video-monitored area,
through poster photographs or informative posters, in which the
location as the data shown.

We have placed two informative signs in the access area to the space
video surveillance, which is displayed in a visible manner and according to the approved model that
facilitates the website of the data protection agency, in which it is reported:

- the existence of the treatment (video surveillance).

- the identity of the data controller or of the video surveillance system, the
Email address of the same and the property.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

Likewise, an informative poster has been placed in which it is warned that the zone
Video monitored is a PRIVATE PROPERTY.

(DOCUMENTS NUMBER 1, NUMBER 2, NUMBER 3 AND NUMBER 4, NUMBER 5, NUMBER 6 AND NUMBER 7 ARE ATTACHED)

[…] Fifth, - Scope of the cameras and places where they are installed, accrediting
by photography of the images captured by the cameras as
displayed on the monitor or equivalent system, that the space for
catchment so as not to affect adjoining land and houses, public roads or any
other alien or reserved space.

Being a single-family home and sheds, the images captured by the
cameras are limited to the dwelling and to the same, not capturing images of the road
public, that is, images are captured that correspond to the minimum bands of
security of access to housing.

Nor are images of adjoining land and houses or any other
off-property space. Installing in a place of visible access a sign that
reports the existence of video surveillance cameras (model APPROVED by
the Data Protection Agency), as well as a sign indicating that it is a
PRIVATE PROPERTY.

After several tests on the location, 3 cameras have definitely been installed,
attached place of final location of the same and of the images captured by
each of them.

ATTACHED. PLACES OF INSTALLATION OF THE CAMERAS AND IMAGE
CAPTURED BY EACH OF THEM:

- document no. 8 (camera 1) and document no. 9 (image captured by camera 1)
- document no. 10 (camera 2) and document no. 11 (image captured by camera 2)
-document no. 12 (camera 3) and document no. 13 (image captured by camera 3)

Seventh. - Any other information that you consider of interest to assess the
adequacy of the installation of video surveillance cameras to the regulations of
Data Protection.

The RGPD establishes in its article 6.1 the assumptions that legitimize the treatment of
personal data and therefore the use of video surveillance cameras, including:

- that the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or of
another natural person.

- that the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the data controller, in particular when the interested party reads
child.

Therefore, and since the purpose of video surveillance is to guarantee the
security of people, property and facilities, the public interest legitimizes said

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

treatment. In the case at hand, with the installation we intend to avoid the
commission of criminal acts, as well as the access of any person outside the
property, especially when two children of 6 and 13 years of age live there, under
age.

With its installation, the principle of proportionality has been fulfilled, by installing the
minimum number essential to achieve the intended purpose, thus avoiding capturing and
record excessive images, in a way that is always respectful of the rights of the
people.

As it is a private property and always with the aim of improving and guaranteeing the
security of the family unit, three cameras have been strategically placed,
whose final location is documented, which allow to fulfill the function
desired, without violating the privacy or intimacy of neighbors or passers-by. your installation
it is carried out in such a way that in no case is the neighbors' facades invaded,
property of others or public roads. The captured images only reach farms and
facades of buildings owned by me and their security perimeters.

It is attached to prove, the ownership of the land and buildings that are
visualized in the images captured by the cameras, a copy of the cadastre of the
property, in which the aforementioned properties owned by Mr.
C.C.C.:

- Property cadastral mapping: Document No. 14 and Document No. 15
- ID copy of the owner of the buildings: Document No. 16
- Copy of the DNI of the person in charge of the treatment: Document nº 17

For all these reasons, within the period indicated for this purpose in your request, I am sending this letter
and the complementary documentation, in which it is accredited that the installation of the
cameras for which I am responsible is in accordance with the regulations for the protection of
data. […]

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of January 13
of 2020.

FOURTH: On March 9, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), typified in article 83.5 of the
same legal text.

FIFTH: On June 30, 2020, the respondent submits a brief of allegations in
who requests the file of the procedure and states the following:

"[…] FIRST.

[…]

[…]since the purpose of video surveillance is to ensure the safety of
people, goods and facilities, the public interest legitimizes such treatment. […]

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

With its installation, the principle of proportionality has been fulfilled, by installing the
minimum number essential to achieve the intended purpose, thus avoiding capturing and
record excessive images, in a way that is always respectful of the rights of
people.

In the documentation held by the Agency, since it was provided on the 27th of
December 2019 in response to your request, the private property of
all spaces that are monitored with security cameras, not only through a
photographic report of the location of the cameras and the spaces they record, but
that are accompanied by plans, property deeds, simple notes from the registry of
the property and cadastral records that certify the private ownership of the property in which
installed cameras are located (family home and outbuildings around
a patio called antojana which is accessed by private road).

This documentation that accompanies the photographs has been ignored by the Agency,
constituting the legal basis for the installation of the cameras since they certify
NATURE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY both of the facades where the
cameras as of the PRIVATE SPACES that it records […]

SECOND. […]

[…]

In the case at hand, the installation conforms to the assumptions provided for in art.
6, sections d) and e). The images that are treated are of a PRIVATE SPACE,
limiting its use to the environment to be installed. […]

[…]

Camera No. 2 captures a private access space to the property as well as the façade
in which the entrance door to my home is located, which in no case can be
considered excessive, since it is a piece of land that adjoins a path
with a height difference of several meters with respect to the public path and that is
a private access road to my home and other properties I own
[…]

[…]

Camera No. 3 captures a private space, comprised between the building where
The chamber and the rest of the buildings that comprise the farm are located
private

[…]

In compliance with this principle of data minimization, 3
video surveillance cameras strategically, to visualize access to the
housing through the main door, the two side facades that have windows on the
ground floor from which the house can be accessed by strangers and the doors
of access to the rest of the buildings that comprise the farm of my property. Their

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

installation is carried out respecting the privacy and intimacy of neighbors and passers-by,
without invading the facades of neighbors, foreign properties or public roads, capturing
images exclusively of the properties of my property and its perimeters of
security.

[…]

Likewise, […] in its installation, the set of rights established in
Articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD […].

THIRD. The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
punisher and must be respected in the imposition of sanctions, since the exercise of
ius puniendi in its various manifestations is conditioned to the game of evidence.

[…]”

Attach the following documents:

. Simple notes of the Registry of Property No. X of Oviedo corresponding to the
farms Nº XXXXX, XXXXX and XXXXX (Document nº 1)

 Planimetry of the farms of the respondent and the public road of ***LOCATION.1
(Document no. 2)

 Cadastral mapping of the property ***FINCA.1 (Document No. 3)
 
 Photographic images of the buildings, access roads and space captured by
Chambers No. 2 and No. 3 (Documents No. 4, 6 and 8).

 Explanatory video (Document No. 5)

 Certificate from the Oviedo City Council regarding the Technical Engineering report
Topographer of the Oviedo City Council issued on February 14, 2020 within the
Non-public ownership certificate application file for the strip bordering the
road and that gives access to the farm ***FINCA.1. (Document no. 7).

SIXTH: The instructor of the procedure agreed, on July 28, 2020, to open
of a period of practice of tests, considering incorporated the claim
presented by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained by the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection and the allegations presented by the
reclaimed.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The claimant submits a document accompanied by a photographic report
denouncing the installation of a video surveillance system installed in the property
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

located at the address indicated in the first antecedent, without information device and
that could be capturing areas of public space.

SECOND: In accordance with the written response to the transfer of the claim and its
attached documentation, submitted on December 27, 2019, the system
installed on that date consists of three chambers:

1. Camera No. 1: It is located on a façade and its field of view is one of the
private patios of the farm.

2. Chamber No. 2: It is located under the auxiliary building's arcade. Your pickup angle
reaches the access road to the farm and the building of the residence of the requested.

3. Camera nº 3: It is located on a facade and its field of view corresponds
with a space between buildings. The buildings cannot be identified as
belonging to the same farm of the claimed.

The placement of informative devices is photographically accredited.

THIRD: According to the pleadings brief filed by the respondent on
June 30, 2020 and its attached documentation, the following information is provided
with respect to the chambers that are the object of the sanctioning procedure initiated (No. 2 and No. 3).

 Chamber No. 2: The respondent provides a certificate from the Oviedo City Council regarding
the issuance of a report by the topographical technical engineer where it is considered
that the access road is not part of the adjoining public road.

 Chamber 3. It is observed that the field of view of this camera covers a patio
private between buildings corresponding to the same farm of the claimed.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The facts made known to the Spanish Data Protection Agency
motivated the initiation of this sanctioning procedure for assuming a possible
violation of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD that indicates that personal data will be
“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed (“data minimization”)”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

This infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which considers as such:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

III

The present sanctioning procedure brings its cause in the presumed illegality of the
cameras identified as No. 2 and No. 3 that are part of the video surveillance system
installed in the property located at the address indicated in the first fact of this
resolution. These cameras could be in breach of the principle of minimization of
data by disproportionately capturing public space.

As regards the possibility of installing a video surveillance system with the
purpose of guaranteeing the security of the dwelling and of the private space of the
claimed, article 22 of the LOPDGDD, regarding treatment for purposes of
video surveillance, provides that, in order to guarantee the safety of people and
goods, images of public thoroughfares may be captured "to the extent that it is
essential", in correspondence with the mentioned principle of minimization of
data. It is reported that, regarding the capture and images on the road, it is reported that the
The power to capture images on public roads is attributed, in general, to the
Security Forces and Bodies in accordance with the provisions of the Organic Law
4/1997 which regulates the use of video cameras by the Forces and Corps
Security in public places and its development regulations.

However, taking into account the allegations and the documentation provided by the
claimed in its reply brief to the agreement to initiate this
sanctioning procedure, with regard to camera No. 2, the field of
viewing is limited to an access road to the property, with respect to which
a certificate from the accidental secretary of the City Council of Oviedo about
of the report issued by the topographical technical engineer on February 14, 2020, which
considers that the aforementioned road is not part of the adjoining public road;
As far as camera nº3 is concerned, the field of vision shows that the courtyard
captured is made up of a private space between the property's buildings.

IV

The principle of the right to the presumption of innocence, recognized as a right
fundamental subjective in article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, prevents imposing
an administrative sanction when proof of
accrediting charge of the facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the
themselves of the alleged offender and applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of
doubt regarding a concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to
resolve said doubt in the most favorable way for the interested party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

The aforementioned right to the presumption of innocence is also included in a
expressed in article 53.2.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), which
establishes that:

"two. In addition to the rights provided for in the previous section, in the case of
administrative procedures of a punitive nature, the alleged
responsible will have the following rights:

[…]b) To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while
the contrary is proven.”

In relation to this principle, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment 76/1990, of 26
of April, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails: “that the
sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating the
reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the person who accuses, without
no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in the
result of the tests carried out, freely valued by the sanctioning body,
must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.”

v

In accordance with the foregoing, based on the documentation provided by the claimed
It cannot be concluded that the devices that are the subject of this sanctioning procedure
capture space outside the exclusive one, so you can not talk about conduct
infringing within the scope of the regulatory framework of data protection,
reason for which the file of this procedure is proceeded.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. and inform A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

