

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data of employees in information and communication systems (UOOU-04097/20)
Ministry


The Office started the inspection on the basis of
control plan. The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations set
controlled person by general regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on processing
personal data, in connection with the processing of personal data of employees v
information and communication systems.

Processing was checked
personal data of employees in 21 separate information and communication
systems and applications used by the ministry, incl. special categories
of personal data in the sense of Article 9 paragraph 1 of the General Regulation (data on health
status, biometric data), and the activity of the data processor proceeding according to
contracts fulfilling the requirements of Article 28, Paragraph 3 of the General Regulation.



The inspectors verified the legality
processing in the sense of Article 6 paragraph 1 of the general regulation, or also in the sense of Article 9
paragraph 2 of the general regulation in relation to a special category of personal data.

Under the control of the Authority
stated that the controlled person provides the data subjects with all information,
which are assumed by Article 13 of the general regulation. No violations were found either
obligations corresponding to the rights of data subjects, regulated in Article 15, Article 16,
Articles 17, 18 and 21 of the General Regulation.

In the security of processed
of personal data, some partial deficiencies were detected (e.g. formal
out of date in some internal regulations), however, these did not reach
levels of non-compliance with security-related obligations. Office
therefore, he found that the audited person did not violate in relation to
security of personal data is an obligation jointly established by Article 24, paragraph 1, Article 25
paragraphs 1 and 2, Article 32, Article 5 paragraph 1 letter f) and Article 5 paragraph 2 of the general regulation.

Also in the submitted records of
deficiencies of a formal nature were found in the processing activities. Control
however, it did not reveal a breach of duty under Article 30 of the General Regulation.

During the Authority's review
found that the data protection officer was not involved in any way in the framework
performance of the auditee's security-related obligations
personal data and not in relation to the exercise of the rights of data subjects. Commissioners
information that is necessary for the performance of this function was not submitted (e.g.
audit reports), nor resources to fulfill his tasks, especially resources
time and personnel, when he was systematically in addition to fulfilling the tasks of the trustees
other tasks not related to this function were stored and the trustees were not
additional personnel capacity provided.

Check following up on
established facts that the inspected person violated the obligation
under Article 38(1) of the General Regulation by failing to ensure that there is a trustee
for the protection of personal data properly and timely involved in all
matters related to the protection of personal data of employees. She violated
also the obligation according to Article 38, paragraph 2 of the general regulation, by the fact that the trustees for
the protection of personal data did not provide the resources necessary to fulfill its tasks, as well as
to access personal data and processing operations.

Controlled person against
did not apply the objections by the control findings and in connection with the mentioned ones
findings proceeded to correct the defective condition.

Additional Information: Privacy Officers are wording
Article 39 of the general regulation imposes the tasks it is to perform. However, so that the trustee
was able to fulfill the assigned tasks, it is essential that the personal data controller ensures appropriate
and timely involvement of the trustee in all related matters
with privacy and to provide him with the resources he needs
to fulfill set tasks and also to maintain their expertise
of knowledge.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Municipalities and state administration > Inspection of the processing of personal data of employees in information and communication systems (UOOU-04097/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



