 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Binding Decision 1/2023 on the dispute submitted by the 

Irish SA on data transfers by Meta Platforms Ireland Limited 

for its Facebook service  (Art. 65 GDPR)  

 

 

Adopted on 13 April 2023

Adopted 

 

1 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

Summary of the dispute.................................................................................................. 4 

The Right to good administration ..................................................................................... 8 

Conditions for adopting a binding decision ........................................................................ 9 

3.1 

Objection(s) expressed by several CSA(s) in relation to a Draft Decision .......................... 9 

The IE SA does not follow the objections to the Draft Decision or is of the opinion  that the 

3.2 
objections are not relevant or reasoned ..............................................................................10 

3.3 

3.4 

Admissibility of the case..........................................................................................10 

Structure of the binding decision ..............................................................................11 

4  On the imposition of an administrative fine ......................................................................12 

4.1 

4.2 

4.3 

4.4 

Analysis by the LSA in the Draft Decision ...................................................................12 

Summary of the objections raised by the CSAs ...........................................................12 

Position of the LSA on the objections ........................................................................22 

Analysis of the EDPB ...............................................................................................23 

4.4.1 

Assessment of whether the objections were relevant and reasoned .......................23 

4.4.2 

Assessment on the merits ................................................................................27 

5  On the imposition of an order regarding transferred personal data ......................................55 

5.1 

5.2 

5.3 

5.4 

Analysis by the LSA in the Draft Decision ...................................................................55 

Summary of the objections raised by the CSAs ...........................................................55 

Position of the LSA on the objections ........................................................................57 

Analysis of the EDPB ...............................................................................................59 

5.4.1 

Assessment of whether the objections were relevant and reasoned .......................59 

5.4.2 

Assessment on the merits ................................................................................61 

Binding Decision ...........................................................................................................72 

Final remarks ...............................................................................................................73 

 
 

 

6 

7 

 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to  Article 63  and  Article 65(1)(a)  of  the  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the 
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC 
(hereinafter ‘GDPR’) 1, 

Having regard to  the European  Economic  Area (hereinafter  ‘EEA’) Agreement and  in  particular to 
Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as  amended  by  the  Decision  of  the  EEA  joint  Committee  No 
154/2018 of 6 July 2018 2, 

Having regard to Article 11 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure (hereinafter ‘EDPB RoP’) 3, 

Whereas: 

(1)  It  follows  from  Article 60 GDPR  that  the  lead  supervisory  authority  (hereinafter  ‘LSA’)  shall 
cooperate with the other supervisory  authorities concerned (hereinafter ‘CSAs’) in an endeavour to 
reach consensus, that the LSA and CSAs shall exchange all relevant information with each other, and 
that the LSA shall, without delay, communicate the relevant information on the matter to the other 
supervisory  authorities concerned. The LSA shall without delay submit  a draft decision  to the other 
CSAs for their opinion  and take due account of their views. 

(2)  Where  any  of  the  CSAs  expressed  a reasoned  and  relevant objection  on  the  draft  decision  in 
accordance  with  Article 4(24)  and  Article 60(4) GDPR  and  the  LSA  does  not  intend  to  follow  the 
objection or considers that the objection is not reasoned and relevant, the LSA shall submit this matter 
to the consistency mechanism referred to in Article 63 GDPR. 

(3)  The main role  of  the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter the  ‘EDPB’) is to  ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR throughout the EEA. Pursuant to  Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, the EDPB 
shall  issue  a binding  decision  concerning all  the matters which  are the  subject of  the  relevant and 
reasoned objections, in particular whether there is an infringement of the GDPR.  

(4) The binding decision of the EDPB shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the members of the 
EDPB, pursuant to Article 65(2) GDPR in conjunction  with Article 11(4) EDPB RoP, within one month 
after the Chair  of  the EDPB and  the competent supervisory  authority have  decided  that the  file  is 
complete. The deadline may be extended by a further month, taking into account the complexity of 
the subject-matter upon  decision  of the Chair of  the EDPB on own initiative or at the request of  at 
least one third of the members of the EDPB. 

(5) In accordance with Article 65(3) GDPR, if, in spite of such an extension, the EDPB has not been able 
to adopt a decision within the timeframe, it shall do so  within two weeks following the expiration of 
the extension by a simple majority of its members. 

(6) In accordance with Article 11(6) EDPB RoP, only the English text of the decision is authentic as it is 
the language of the EDPB adoption procedure. 

 

                                                             
1 OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1. 
2 References to ‘Member States’ made throughout this decision should be understood as references to ‘EEA 
Member States’. 
3 EDPB Rules of Procedure, adopted on 25 May 2018 (current version: adopted on 6 April 2022). 

Adopted 

 

3 

HAS ADOPTED  THE  FOLLOWING BINDING DECISION 

1  SUMMARY OF THE DISPUTE 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

This  document  contains  a  binding  decision  adopted  by  the  EDPB 
in  accordance  with 
Article 65(1)(a) GDPR. The decision concerns the dispute arisen following a draft decision (hereinafter 
‘Draft Decision’) issued by the Irish supervisory authority (‘Data Protection Commission’, hereinafter 
the ‘IE SA’, also referred to in this context as the ‘LSA’) and the subsequent objections expressed by a 
number of CSAs  (‘Österreichische Datenschutzbehörde’ hereinafter the ‘AT SA’; ‘ Der Hamburgische 
Beauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit’ also on behalf of all German SAs 4, hereinafter 
the  ‘DE SAs’ ;  ‘Agencia  Española  de  Protección  de  Datos’,  hereinafter  the  ‘ES SA’;    ‘Commission 
Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés’, hereinafter the ‘FR SA’). 

The Draft Decision at issue  relates to an ‘own volition  inquiry’ (IN-20-8-1) (the ‘Inquiry’) which was 
commenced  by  the  IE SA  on  28 August 2020  into  the  Facebook  social  media  processing  activities 
(hereinafter ‘Facebook service’ 5) of Facebook Ireland Limited, and more specifically into transfers of 
personal data outside of the EU/EEA carried out on the basis of standard contractual clauses (‘SCCs’) 
(pursuant to Article 46(2)(d) GDPR).  

Facebook Ireland Limited is a company established in Dublin, Ireland. The company has subsequently 
changed  its  name  to  ‘Meta Platforms Ireland Limited’  (hereinafter  ‘Meta IE’).  Any  reference  to 
Meta IE  in  this  Binding  Decision  means  a  reference  to  either  Facebook  Ireland  Limited  or  Meta 
Platforms Ireland Limited, as appropriate 6. 

The scope of  the Inquiry was described by  the IE SA as comprising  two issues:  (1) the lawfulness  of 
international transfers of  personal  data of  EU/EEA individuals 7  who  visit, access, use  or  otherwise 
interact with  the  Facebook  service,  carried  out  by  Meta IE,  to  Facebook  Inc.  pursuant  to  SCCs 8 
following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered on 16 July 2020 in Case 

                                                             
4 All the German SAs were engaged as Supervisory Authorities concerned in this inquiry. The objection was raised 
by the Hamburg SA also on behalf of the German Federal SA, Baden-Wurttemberg SA, both Bavarian SAs (Der 
Bayerische Landesbeauftragte für den Datenschutz, Bayerisches Landesamt für Datenschutzaufsicht), Berlin SA, 
Brandenburg SA, Bremen SA, Hessen SA, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania SA, Lower Saxony SA, North Rhine-
Westfalia SA,  Rhineland-Palatinate SA,  Saarland SA,  Saxony SA,  Saxony-Anhalt SA,  Schleswig-Holstein SA, 
Thuringia SA.  
5 It was clarified by the IE SA that the Inquiry and the Draft Decision relate to the Facebook Service only. Draft 
Decision, paragraph 1.8. The Facebook Service was defined by Meta IE in its submissions on the Preliminary Draft 
Decision dated 2 July 2021 (p. 5 and paragraph 1.1 on p. 11) as ‘the Facebook service (available at the website 
www.facebook.com and via mobile application)’.  
6 Meta Platforms, Inc. is formerly Facebook, Inc.  
7 It was clarified by the IE SA that the geographical scope of the inquiry is limited to users of the Facebook Service 
in the EU/EEA. Draft Decision, paragraph 1.8.  
8 It was clarified by the IE SA that the Inquiry relates to transfers carried out on the basis of: 

- 

- 

the 2010 SCC Decision and the 2010 SCCs (Commission Decision 2010/87, OJ 12/2/2010, repealed on 
26 September 2021),  
and, then, the 2021 SCC Decision (Commission Implementing Decision 2021/914 of 4 June 2021, OJ L 
199, 7.6.2021, p. 31-61) and the 2021 SCCs. 

See Draft Decision, paragraphs 1.8, 5.20.  

Adopted 

 

4 

C-311/18 (the ‘Schrems II judgment’) 9 (these transfers of personal data will hereinafter be referred 
to as ‘FB International Transfers’); (2) whether (and/or which) corrective powers should be exercised 
by the IE SA pursuant to Article 58(2) GDPR in the event that the conclusion  is reached that Meta IE is 
acting unlawfully and infringing Article 46(1) GDPR 10.  

The IE SA explained it is also engaged in a separate and standalone ‘complaint-based inquiry’ (IN-21-
6-3)  in  which  Meta IE  is  also  a  respondent  and  in  which  issues  substantially  the  same  as  those 
addressed in  the Draft Decision will be determined 11. This inquiry  is  based on a complaint that was 
lodged  by  Mr. Maximilian Schrems  (hereinafter, ‘Schrems’) 12  and is  progressed  separately by  the 
IE SA.  

In these circumstances, the IE SA  invited Schrems, as interested party, to share his views at specific 
junctures in the Inquiry, as further outlined below 13.  

Additionally,  the  IE SA  invited  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  (hereinafter, 
‘US Government’) to  share  its  views  on  particular  matters  at  specific  junctures  in  the  Inquiry,  as 
further outlined below 14. 

The IE SA stated in its Draft Decision that it was satisfied that the IE SA is the LSA, within the meaning 
of the GDPR, for Meta IE, as controller, for the purpose of the international transfers of personal data 
carried out on the basis of the SCCs   in the context of the Facebook service 15. 

The following table presents a summary timeline of  the events part of the procedure leading to the 
submission  of the matter to the consistency mechanism. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

28.08.2020 

The  IE SA 
issued  a  preliminary  draft  decision  (hereinafter 
‘the Preliminary Draft Decision’) to Meta IE on 28 August 2020. 
The  Preliminary  Draft Decision  served  as  notice  to  Meta IE  of 
commencement of an own volition inquiry, setting out its scope 
and legal basis. The IE SA invited Meta IE to provide its views on 
the Preliminary Draft Decision.  

                                                             
9 Judgement of the Court of Justice of 16 July 2020, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Limited 
and Maximillian Schrems, C-311/18, ECLI:EU:C:2020:559.   
10 Preliminary Draft Decision, paragraph 1.2.  
11 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.50. The reference in said paragraph to inquiry ‘IN-18-6-3’ amounts to an editorial 
mistake and should be read as ‘IN-21-6-3’.    
12  This complaint was lodged on  25  June  2013 (Draft Decision, paragraph 2.6), then  reformulated  and  
resubmitted on 1 December 2015 (Draft Decision, paragraph 2.25) and then further rescoped in the context of 
the  settlement of the  subsequent judicial review proceedings (as described in paragraph 2.47 of the  Draft 
Decision).  
13 Memorandum to the EDPB Secretariat dated 19 January 2023, p. 1. The Draft Decision explains that Schrems 
also applied for judicial review against the DPC (this occurred on 8 October 2020). Following a settlement 
reached between the IE SA and Schrems, the application was struck out by Order of the High Court on 13 January 
2021 and the complaint referred to in the previous footnote was re-scoped. See Draft Decision, paragraph 2.47, 
referring to High Court Record No. 2020 / 707JR. 
14 Memorandum to the EDPB Secretariat dated 19 January 2023, p. 2.   
15 Draft Decision, paragraphs 4.19-4.20.  

Adopted 

 

5 

10.09.2020 

May 2021 - September 2021 
 

21 - 22.02.2022  

March - 
April 2022 

Meta IE applied  for judicial  review, challenging the  Preliminary 
Draft  Decision 16.  The  application  was  dismissed  on  14  May 
2021 17.  
On 21 May 2021 18, the IE SA renewed its invitation to Meta IE to 
make submissions  on the Preliminary Draft Decision, which Meta 
IE submitted on 2 July 2021 (‘the Meta IE PDD Submissions’).  
At the same time, the IE SA invited Schrems to make submissions 
on  the  Preliminary  Draft Decision.  On  20  July  2021,  the  IE SA 
invited  Schrems  to  make  submissions  on  the  (redacted) 
submissions  of  Meta  IE  on  the  Preliminary  Draft Decision.  In 
response,  Schrems  provided  submissions  to  the  IE SA  on  15 
August 2021 (‘the Schrems PDD Submissions’). 
 
On 18 August 2021, the IE SA raised additional questions  to Meta 
IE  in  relation  to  their  submissions;  Meta  IE  responded  on  1 
September 2021 (‘the Meta IE Supplemental PDD Submissions’). 
 
On 23 August 2021, the IE SA provided to Meta IE a copy of the 
Schrems PDD Submissions;  Meta IE responded on 24 September 
2021 (‘the Meta IE Response to Schrems PDD Submissions’). 
 
On  20  August  2021,  the  IE SA  invited  the  US  Government  as 
interested  party  to  make  submissions  on  a series of  questions 
posed  to  it  by  IE SA,  a  response  to  which  was  provided on  20 
September  2021 (‘the US Government PDD Submissions’). 
Having considered the material obtained over the course of the 
inquiry, including the submissions  and response identified above, 
the IE SA issued a revised preliminary draft decision (‘the Revised 
Preliminary Draft’). The IE SA invited Meta IE to exercise its right 
to be heard in  respect of the Revised  Preliminary Draft. At this 
time, IE SA  also  provided  Schrems  and  the US  Government  an 
opportunity  to  make  submissions  in  response  to  the  Revised 
Preliminary Draft.   
Schrems furnished  submissions  to IE SA on 21 March 2022 (‘the 
Schrems  Revised  PDD  Submissions’).  The  US  Government 
furnished  submissions  to  the  IE SA  on  4  April  2022  (‘the  US 
Government Revised PDD Submissions’).  
Meta IE furnished  submissions  on 29 April 2022 concerning the 
Revised  Preliminary  Draft, 
  the  Schrems  Revised  PDD 
Submissions  and the US Government Revised  PDD Submissions 
(‘the Meta IE Revised PDD Submissions’) 

                                                             
16 Draft Decision, paragraphs 1.6 and 2.44. 
17 Draft Decision, paragraph 2.45. 
18 Draft Decision, pararaph 2.46.  

Adopted 

 

6 

6.07.2022 

July - August 2022 

10.08.2022 

20.09.2022 

28.09.2022 

2.11.2022 

 

The IE SA shared its Draft Decision with the CSAs in  accordance 
with Article 60(3) GDPR.  
Several CSAs  (AT SA, DE SAs, ES SA and FR SA) raised objections 
in  accordance  with  Article 60(4) GDPR 19.  Additionally,  several 
CSAs raised comments 20. 
The IE SA furnished  a copy  of  the objections  and comments  to 
Meta IE, for transparency purposes.  
The IE SA  issued  a memorandum setting out its  replies  to such 
objections  and shared it with the CSAs  (hereinafter, ‘Composite 
Response’). The IE SA requested the relevant CSAs to confirm by 
27  September  2022  whether,  having  considered  the  IE SA’s 
position in relation to the objections as set out in the Composite 
Response, the CSAs intended to maintain their objections. On 27 
September  2022, DE SAs  explicitly  confirmed  to  the IE SA  that 
they maintain their objections  21. 
The IE SA clarified to Meta IE its intention to refer the dispute to 
the EDPB and invited Meta IE to exercise its right to be heard in 
respect of the objections (and comments) that IE SA proposed to 
refer  to  the  EDPB  along  with  Composite  Response  and  the 
communications  received  from  the  CSAs 
in  reply  to  the 
Composite Response.  
Meta  IE  furnished  the  requested  submissions  (the  ‘Meta  IE 
Art. 65 Submissions’). 

10. 

11. 

12. 

Following the facts set out above, on 19 January 2023 the IE SA submitted the dispute to the EDPB in 
accordance  with  Article 60(4) GDPR,  thus 
initiating  the  dispute  resolution  procedure  under 
Article 65(1)(a) GDPR using the Internal Market Information system (hereinafter ‘IMI’) on 19 January 
2023, at which time they also confirmed the completeness of the file.  

Following  the  submission  by  the  IE SA  of  this  matter  to  the  EDPB  in  accordance  with 
Article 60(4) GDPR, the EDPB Secretariat assessed the completeness of the file on behalf of the Chair 
of the EDPB in line with Article 11(2) EDPB RoP.  

The  EDPB  Secretariat  contacted  the  IE SA  on  30  January  2023,  asking  it  to  provide  additional 
documents  and clarifications within a one-week timeframe. The IE SA  provided  the documents  and 
information on 10 February 2023 22.  

                                                             
19 AT SA Objection, dated 2 August 2022, DE SAs Objection, dated 3 August 2022, ES SA Objection, dated 29 July 
2022, FR SA Objection, dated 3 August 2022.  
20 Comment of the  Norwegian SA, 17 July 2022; Comment of the Finnish SA, 22 July 2022; Comment of the 
Bulgarian SA, 2 August 2022; Comment of the Hungarian SA, 3 August 2022; Comment of the Polish SA, 3 August 
2022 Comment of the  Dutch SA,  3  August 2022. These comments are not part of the  dispute resolution 
procedure. For the purposes of completeness the EDPB notes that the IE SA provided a reply to the Comment 
of Finnish SA on 22 July 2022.  
21 Response of the DE SAs to the Composite Response dated 27 September. In addition, some of the CSAs who 
raised comments (i.e., the Dutch SA, the Polish SA, the Norwegian SA, and the Hungarian SA) provided replies to 
the Composite Response.  
22 This was carried out by withdrawing the initial request in the IMI and re-submitting it.  

Adopted 

 

7 

13.  A matter of particular importance that was scrutinised  by  the EDPB Secretariat was the right to be 
heard, as  required by  Article 41(2)(a) of  the Charter of Fundamental  Rights of  the European Union 
(hereinafter, ‘CFR’). Further details on this are provided in Section 2 of this Binding Decision.  

14.  On 13 February 2023, the decision on the completeness of the file was taken, and it was circulated by 

the EDPB Secretariat to all the members of the EDPB. 

15. 

The  Chair  of  the  EDPB  decided,  in  compliance  with  Article 65(3) GDPR  in  conjunction  with 
Article 11(4) EDPB RoP, to extend the default timeline for adoption of one month by a further month 
on account of the complexity of the subject-matter. 

2  THE RIGHT TO GOOD ADMINISTRATION 

16. 

17. 

The EDPB is subject to Article 41 of the CFR, in particular Article 41 (right to good administration). This 
is  also  reflected  in  Article 11(1) EDPB RoP.  Further  details  were  provided  in  the  EDPB Guidelines 
03/2021  on  the  application  of  Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, adopted  on  13  April  2021  (version  for  public 
consultation) (hereinafter, ‘EDPB Guidelines on Article 65(1)(a) GDPR’) 23.    

The EDPB decision  ‘shall be  reasoned  and  addressed  to  the lead supervisory  authority and  all the 
supervisory  authorities  concerned  and  binding  on  them’  (Article 65(2) GDPR). It  is  not  aiming  to 
address directly any other third party, as clarified by the recent order of the General Court in case T-
709/21 24.  

18.  Nevertheless, the EDPB assessed  if  Meta IE was offered  the opportunity  to exercise its  right to be 
heard in relation to all the documents it received containing the matters of facts and law to be used 
by the EDPB to take its decision in this procedure.  

19. 

The EDPB notes that Meta IE has received the opportunity to exercise its right to be heard regarding 
all the documents containing the matters of facts and of law considered  and addressed by the EDPB 
in the context of this decision  and provided  its written observations 25, which have been shared with 
the EDPB by the IE SA.  

                                                             
23 EDPB Guidelines on Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, paragraphs 94-108. 
24 The General Court found in its Order of 7 December 2022, WhatsApp v European Data Protection Board, T-
709/21, EU:T:2022:783 (hereinafter, ‘T-709/21 WhatsApp’) that the controller addressed by the final decision 
of  the  LSA  was not  directly concerned by the  EDPB  Binding Decision 1/2021, adopted on 28  July 2021 
(hereinafter, ‘Binding Decision 1/2021’) since it did not in itself bring a distinct change in the applicant’s legal 
position and constituted a preparatory or intermediate act. The General Court also clarified the Binding Decision 
1/2021 had no legal effect vis-a-vis the controller that was independent of the final decision, on which the LSA 
had a measure of discretion. As a consequence, the General Court dismissed the action for annulment brought 
by WhatsApp Ireland Ltd as inadmissible, given that the  conditions  laid down in the  fourth paragraph  of 
Art. 263 TFEU had not been met. See T-709/21 WhatsApp, paragraphs 41-61.  
25  In particular, Meta IE PD Submissions dated 2 July 2021, Meta IE PD Supplemental Submissions dated 1 
September 2021, the Meta IE Response to Schrems PDD Submissions, the Meta IE Revised PD Submissions dated 
29 April 2022,  the Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions dated 2 November 2022. 

Adopted 

 

8 

3  CONDITIONS FOR ADOPTING A BINDING DECISION 

20. 

The  general  conditions  for  the  adoption  of  a  binding  decision  by  the  EDPB  are  set  forth  in 
Article 60(4) GDPR and Article 65(1)(a) GDPR 26. 

3.1  Objection(s) expressed by several CSA(s) in relation to a Draft Decision 

21. 

The EDPB notes that several CSAs raised objections to the Draft Decision via IMI. The objections were 
raised pursuant to Article 60(4) GDPR. 

22.  At this juncture, it is important to note the parts of the Draft Decision which fall outside the scope of 
the dispute and therefore of the competence of the EDPB. None of the findings of  the IE SA on the 
infringements committed by Meta IE are challenged or disputed by the objections raised by the CSAs. 
Several CSAs explicitly praise the analysis carried out by the IE SA 27.  

23. 

24. 

25. 

In its Draft Decision, the IE SA finds that ‘US law does not provide a level of protection that is essentially 
equivalent  to  that  provided  by  EU  law’, SCCs  cannot  compensate  for  the  inadequate  protection 
provided  by  US  law, and  ‘Meta does  not  have  in  place  any  supplemental  measures  which  would 
compensate for the inadequate protection provided  by US law’ 28. Accordingly, the IE SA finds  that in 
making the FB International Transfers Meta is infringing Article 46(1) GDPR 29.  The IE SA also analyses 
the application of the derogations enshrined  in Article 49 GDPR and concludes that ‘it is not open to 
Meta Ireland to rely on the derogations at Article 49(1) GDPR (or any of them) to justify the systematic, 
bulk, repetitive and ongoing transfer of users’ data from the EU to the US’ 30.  

The IE SA  takes the view that ‘it is  necessary to  exercise corrective powers  in order  to address the 
infringements  identified’  and  that  ‘in  all  the  circumstances,  it  is  appropriate,  necessary  and 
proportionate to order the suspension  of the Data Transfers pursuant to Article 58(2)(j) GDPR’ 31.  

The IE SA refers to the Court  of Justice of  the European Union’s  (hereinafter, ‘CJEU’) findings in the 
Schrems  II  judgment  and  recalls  that  although  it  is  for  the  IE SA  to  ‘determine  which  action  is 
appropriate  and  necessary  and  take  into  consideration  all  the  circumstances  of  the  transfer  of 
personal data in question in that determination, the supervisory  authority is nevertheless required to 
execute its  responsibility  for ensuring  that the GDPR is fully  enforced  with all due diligence’ 32. The 
IE SA then concludes that, as a supervisory authority, it is  ‘required to take appropriate action in order 
to  remedy  the  identified  breach  of  Article 46 GDPR’  and  that  ‘it  is  appropriate,  necessary  and 
proportionate to invoke  the power under Article 58(2)(j) GDPR to order the suspension  of the Data 
Transfers’ 33. 

                                                             
26 According to Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR, the Board will issue a binding decision when a supervisory authority has 
raised a relevant and reasoned objection to a draft decision of the LSA and the LSA has not followed the objection 
or the LSA has rejected such an objection as being not relevant or reasoned. 
27 DE SAs Objection, p. 1; AT SA Objection, p. 1.  
28 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.201.  
29 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.202.  
30 Draft Decision, paragraph 8.106.  
31 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.1.  
32 Draft Decision paragraph 9.24, referring to the Schrems II judgment, paragraph 112. 
33 Draft Decision paragraph 9.25. 

Adopted 

 

9 

26.  All the objections  raised in this case only concern the application of corrective measures, and more 
specifically  suggest the addition  of  further corrective measures while agreeing with the suspension 
order proposed by the IE SA 34. 

3.2  The IE SA does not follow the objections  to the Draft Decision or is of the opinion 

that the objections are not relevant or reasoned 

27. 

The  IE SA  considered  that the objections  raised  by  the AT SA, FR SA  and  DE SAs  are ‘relevant and 
reasoned’ for  the  purpose  of  Article 4(24) GDPR. In the  case of  the objection  raised by  the ES SA, 
however, the IE SA considers that this objection is not ‘relevant and reasoned’ for the reasons set out 
in the IE SA’s ‘Internal Assessment of the Status of Objections’ 35 and below. 

28.  On  20  September  2022,  the  IE SA  provided  the  CSAs  with  an  analysis  of  their  objections  in  its 
Composite  Response. The analysis  is provided  ‘without prejudice to IE SA’s position  on whether any 
of  the  objections  raised  constitute  “relevant  and  reasoned”  objections  for  the  purpose  of 
Article 4(24) GDPR’.  According  to  the  IE SA,  the  Composite  Response  represents  the  ‘IE SA’s 
compliance with its obligation (as Lead Supervisory  Authority) to take due account of the views that 
have been expressed by the CSAs  and, thereby, facilitating (insofar as possible)  the conclusion  of the 
within cooperation and consistency process by consensus,  as envisaged by Article 60 GDPR’ 36. 

29.  After setting out its position  on the reasons for maintaining the Draft Decision unchanged, t he IE SA 

concluded that it would not follow the objections 37.  

3.3  Admissibility of the case 

30. 

31. 

The case at issue fulfils, prima facie, all the elements listed by Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, since CSAs raised 
objections to the Draft Decision within the deadline provided by Article 60(4) GDPR, and the IE SA has 
not followed objections or rejected them for being, in its view, not relevant or reasoned.  

The EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s position  that the IE SA should  not have referred the dispute to the 
EDPB pursuant to Article 65 GDPR in light of the ‘Executive Order On Enhancing Safeguards For United 
States Signals Intelligence Activities’ (hereinafter ‘Executive Order’) issued on 7 October 2022 by the 
President of the United States as well as the ‘Regulations regarding the Data Protection Review Court 
introduced  by  the  EO’  (hereinafter  ‘US  AG  Regulations’) issued  by  the  United  States  Attorney 
General 38. Concretely, Meta IE petitioned the IE SA for ‘a right to be heard in respect of the changes 
to US law and practice made by the EO and (ii) consider whether it was necessary to revise the Draft 
Decision  in  light  of  this  material  development  before  this  matter  is  submitted  to  an  Article 65 

                                                             
34 The AT SA considers this order in its objection as ‘suitable to bring the processing in compliance with Chapter 
V of the GDPR’ (AT SA Objection, p. 3). The DE SAs ‘strongly welcome and support this order’ (DE SAs Objection, 
p. 2). See also ES SA Objection, p. 2. The FR SA ‘does not question the statement in the Draft Decision that the 
suspension of transfers is a measure to resolve the identified infringement’ (FR SA Objection, paragraph 8, p. 3). 
Therefore, the suspension order is not subject to any objection from the CSAs a nd falls outside the scope of the 
dispute and therefore of the competence of the EDPB. 
35 Annex to the IE SA’s letter to Meta IE dated 28 September 2023. 
36 Composite response, p. 1. 
37 Composite response, p. 6. 
38 Meta IE Article 65 Submissions, paragraph 1.4. 

Adopted 

 

10 

Process’ 39. Meta IE argues that ‘any conclusions  arrived at in the Article 65 Process  would be based 
on erroneous and outdated findings of fact’ 40. 

32. 

The IE SA examines very thoroughly whether the Executive Order and the US AG Regulations give rise 
to a material change of circumstance such as to require them to revisit the Draft Decision, concluding 
that ‘the analysis on which the findings contained in the Draft Decision rest have not been overtaken 
by events, or rendered inaccurate, incomplete or out of date, whether by reference to the Executive 
Order, or otherwise’ 41. Likewise, the EDPB fails to see how the documents issued on 7 October 2022 
could have a retroactive effect on the findings made by the IE SA on 6 July 2022. The EDPB fully agrees 
with the IE SA that ‘the Draft Decision can (and, indeed, must) proceed to consideration by the EDPB 
in the context of the Article 65 Procedure’ 42.  

33.  Considering the above, in particular that the conditions of Article 65(1)(a) GDPR are met, the EDPB is 
therefore competent to adopt a binding  decision, which shall  concern all the matters which are the 
subject of  the relevant and reasoned objection(s),  in particular whether there is an infringement of 
the GDPR or whether the envisaged action in relation to the controller or processor complies with the 
GDPR 43.  

34. 

The EDPB recalls that its current decision  is without any prejudice to any assessments the EDPB may 
be  called  upon  to  make  in  other  cases,  including  with  the  same  parties, taking  into  account the 
contents of the relevant Draft Decision and the objections raised by the CSA(s).  

3.4  Structure of the binding decision 

35. 

For each of the objections  raised, the EDPB decides on their admissibility,  by assessing first whether 
they  can  be  considered  as  a 
‘relevant  and  reasoned  objection’  within  the  meaning  of 
Article 4(24) GDPR as clarified in the EDPB Guidelines 9/2020 on the concept of relevant and reasoned 
objection, version 2 adopted on 9 March 2021 (hereinafter, ‘EDPB Guidelines on RRO’) 44.   

36.  Where the EDPB finds  that an objection does  not meet the requirements of  Article 4(24) GDPR, the 
EDPB does not take any position  on the merit of any substantial issues  raised by that objection in this 
specific case. The EDPB will analyse the merits of the substantial issues raised by all objections it deems 
relevant and reasoned 45.  

 

 

                                                             
39 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 1.5. 
40 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 1.6. 
41 IE SA letter to Meta IE dated 19 January 2023, p. 2 and 4. 
42 IE SA letter to Meta IE dated 19 January 2023, p. 4. 
43 Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR and Art. 4(24) GDPR. Some CSAs raised comments and not per se objections, which were, 
therefore, not taken into account by the EDPB.   
44 EDPB Guidelines on RRO. The Guidelines (version 2) were adopted on 9 March 2021, after the commencement 
of the inquiry by the IE SA relating to this particular case. 
45 ‘The EDPB will assess, in relation to each objection raised, whether the objection meets the requirements of 
Art. 4(24) GDPR and, if so, address the merits of the objection in the binding decision.’ See EDPB Guidelines on 
Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR, paragraph 63. 

Adopted 

 

11 

4  ON THE IMPOSITION OF AN ADMINISTRATIVE FINE 

4.1  Analysis by the LSA in the Draft Decision 

37. 

38. 

39. 

The EDPB recalls that the current dispute  revolves  around  the corrective measures  chosen  by  the 
IE SA 46. The IE SA states that it has ‘had regard to the DPC’s power to impose an administrative fine, 
whether in addition to, or instead of, any of the other measures set out in GDPR Article 58(2)’ and that 
it has ‘carefully considered the criteria set out in GDPR Article 83(2)(a)–(k)’ 47. 

The IE SA takes the view that the imposition of an administrative fine ‘in addition to an order directing 
the  suspension  of  the Data Transfers  would  not  be  "effective, proportionate  and  dissuasive”’  and 
‘would not render the DPC’s response to the findings of unlawfulness any more effective’  48. The IE SA 
does not consider that ‘in the particular circumstances of this case, or in relation to transfers generally, 
the  imposition  of  an  administrative  fine  on  top  of  the  suspension  would  have  any  meaningful 
dissuasive  effect, particularly when set against the consequences said to attach to an order directing 
the suspension  of transfers’ 49.  

The  IE SA  further  expressed  concern  that  the  imposition  of  an  administrative  fine  would  be 
disproportionate, both having regard to the consequences attaching to an order directing suspension 
of  transfers  but  also  because  it  was  ultimately  through  the  Schrems  II judgment  that a  series  of 
complex legal issues relating to the Data Transfers have been resolved, and where, in the interim, ‘the 
Data Transfers were being effected, in  good  faith, under  and by  reference to transfer mechanisms 
provided for at law’ 50. 

4.2  Summary of the objections raised by the CSAs 

40. 

The  AT SA,  DE SAs,  ES SA,  and  FR SA  raise  objections  pursuant  to  Article 4(24) GDPR  and 
Article 60(4) GDPR stating that in the case at stake it would be appropriate for an administrative fine 
to  be imposed for  the  infringement  of  Article 46(1) GDPR  in  addition to  the suspension of  data 
transfers 51.   

41. 

The AT SA, DE SAs, ES SA, and FR SA put forward several factual and legal arguments for the proposed 
change concerning the envisaged corrective measures.  

42.  While all these CSAs agree with the imposition of the suspension  order envisaged by the LSA to ensure 
future  compliance 52,  they  argue  that  an  administrative  fine  should  also  be  imposed  in  order  to 
appropriately address the infringement committed in the past 53. According to the AT SA and DE SAs, 

                                                             
46 See paragraphs 21 to 29 above.  
47 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.47. 
48 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.48. 
49 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.48. 
50 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.48. 
51 AT SA Objection, p. 1, DE SAs Objection, p. 7, ES SA Objection, p. 3, FR SA Objection, p. 2.  
52 See footnote 34 above.   
53 According to the AT SA, ‘in the interest of consistent enforcement as well as to strengthen enforcement of the 
GDPR, an administrative fine is effective in the present case for counteracting the established infringement in 
the past’ (AT SA Objection, p. 3).  
According to  the  DE SAs,  ‘Only the  imposition of  an  administrative fine  regarding the  infringement of 
Art. 46 (1) GDPR at least for the time since the Schrems-II judgment can ensure the effective enforcement of the 
GDPR in this case’ (DE  SAs Objection, p. 7). 

Adopted 

 

12 

the suspension alone is not sufficient 54. The FR SA and ES SA argue in this respect that the imposition 
of an administrative fine would have punitive effects that the suspension  would not have 55.  

43. 

The  AT SA,  DE SAs,  ES SA,  and  FR SA  disagree with  the  IE SA’s  conclusion  set  forth  in  the  Draft 
Decision 56 that an administrative fine would not be appropriate and would not have any meaningful 
dissuasive  effect 57. Since ‘Meta is  the provider  of  the biggest global social  media network with an 
enormous number of users within the European Union and thus affected persons’ 58, the AT SA argues 
that ‘[n]ot properly addressing the identified infringement of Chapter V of the GDPR would generally 
weaken the  position  of  the supervisory  authorities and  endanger compliance  with the  GDPR on  a 
general level’ 59  also  considering  that ‘transferring data to  the  United  States  is  still  a  widely  used 
practice among numerous  controllers’ 60. The AT SA, DE SAs, and ES SA highlight that the imposition 
of an administrative fine in the case at hand should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive  61. The 
AT SA,  ES SA,  DE SAs  and  FR SA  also  recall  in  their  objections  that  Recital 148 GDPR  and 
Article 58(2)(i) GDPR allow the imposition  of administrative fines  ‘in addition to, or instead of’ other 
measures 62. Along the same lines, the ES SA highlights that the imposition of an administrative fines 

                                                             
54 AT SA Objection, p. 2 (the suspension ‘does not appear to be sufficient in the present case and does not reflect 
the seriousness and severity of the infringement’), DE SAs Objection, p. 1 (‘the envisaged actions in relation to 
the controller in the draft decision do not comply with the GDPR because they are not sufficient to remedy the 
infringements’).  
55 ES SA Objection, p. 3; FR SA Objection, paragraph 8, p. 3.  
56 See paragraphs 37-38 above.  
57 AT SA Objection, p. 1 (‘the Austrian DPA is not convinced by the DPCs assessment’), p. 2 (‘The fact that the 
DPC does not make use of its corrective powers according to Art. 58(2)(i) GDPR is based on the inaccurate 
assessment that an administrative fine would not be effective, proportionate and dissuasive’); DE SAs Objection, 
p. 7 (‘The draft decision considered, that the imposition of an administrative fine would have no meaningful 
dissuasive effect. We respectfully cannot share this view’). ES SA Objection, p. 2. FR SA Objection, p. 1-3. 
58 AT SA Objection, p. 2. 
59 AT SA Objection, p. 2. The AT SA also argues that ‘Not imposing a fine on Meta Ireland would demonstrate to 
controllers – including Meta Ireland – that past infringements of the GDPR will not be properly addressed and 
that the enforcement of the GDPR and its provisions is not as effective. There would be little incentive to bring 
processing in connection with the transfer of personal data to a third country in compliance with the GDPR.’ 
(AT SA Objection, p. 2). 
60 AT SA Objection, p. 2.  
61 AT SA Objection, p. 2, DE SAs Objection, p. 11 (‘An administrative fine of a substantial amount would need to 
be  imposed under Article 83 (1) and (2)   for the unlawful processing of personal data. According to Article 
83 (1) GDPR administrative fines shall in each individual case be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The fine 
shall be both special preventive and general preventive’) and p. 12 (‘The DPC should impose an effective, 
proportionate and dissuasive administrative fine against Meta for the infringement of Article 46 (1)  GDPR at 
least for the time of the infringement since the Schrems II judgment of 16 July 2020’); ES SA Objection, p. 3 (‘... 
imposition of a fine that should be proportionate, dissuasive and effective’).  
In this regard, the ES SA recalls the Binding Decision 1/2021, paragraph 321 (‘the overarching purpose of Article 
83 GDPR is to ensure that for each individual case, the imposition of an administrative fine in respect of an 
infringement of the GDPR is effective, proportionate and dissuasive’; ‘the ability of SAs to impose such deterrent 
fines highly contributes to enforcement and therefore to compliance with the GDPR’).  
62 FR SA Objection, paragraph 9, p. 3. DE SAs Objection, p. 8. ES SA Objection, p. 2. AT SA Objection, p. 2.  

Adopted 

 

13 

is ‘compatible with the imposition of the corrective measures proposed’ by the IE SA 63. According to 
the DE SAs, Recital 148 GDPR indicates that an order must be complemented by a fine 64. 

44.  With respect to effectiveness, the AT SA underlines that ‘an administrative fine may be imposed in 
addition to other corrective measures’ 65 and that it would be an effective measure to counteract the 
infringement  established  and  strengthen the  enforcement of  the  GDPR, also  in  light  of  Meta IE’s 
financial position  66. According to the DE SAs, ‘Only the imposition  of an administrative fine regarding 
the infringement of Article 46 (1) GDPR at least for the time since the Schrems-II ruling can ensure the 
effective enforcement of the GDPR in this case’ 67.  The ES SA highlighted with respect to effectiveness 
that ‘the non-imposition  of a fine would lead the infringing entities to consider that the infringement 
of  the  GDPR  does  not  have  financial  punitive  consequences’ 68.  The  FR SA  argues  that  the 
administrative fine and the suspension  are ‘complementary corrective measures’  69.  

45.  Concerning proportionality, the AT SA concludes that ‘the imposition of an administrative fine would 
not in any case be disproportionate’ 70 considering the factors in Article 83(2)(a), (b), (e), and (g) GDPR. 
In the DE SAs’ view, ‘there is nothing in the draft decision to support the conclusion that the imposition 
of an administrative fine would  be disproportionate’ and on  the contrary ‘the very long duration of 
proceedings show  that the controller must have been aware of the problem for  a long time’  71. The 
ES SA  argues that ‘it  should  be  borne  in  mind  that it  is  an  entity  that  generates huge  profits,  so 
imposing a fine taking into account the gravity of the infringement and the nature of the processing 
would not be disproportionate and would not cause it harm which it would not have to face as a result 
of acts contrary to the GDPR’ 72.  

46.  As  to  the  dissuasiveness aspect, the  AT SA,  DE SAs,  ES SA  and  FR SA  provide  reasoning  as  to  why 
imposing an administrative fine would achieve both the general and specific deterrence objectives 73. 
With  respect to  general deterrence, the AT SA  highlights  the need  for  the  corrective measures to 

                                                             
63  ES SA  Objection, p. 2.  In this regard, the ES SA stated it disagrees with the IE SA that the  suspension or 
prohibition are the only possible measures to be taken, because the Schrems II Judgment refers to the fact that 
one of the two must be adopted but does not preclude the adoption of other measures. The ES SA also refers to 
Art. 58(2)(i) GDPR allowing the imposition of administrative fines  ‘in addition to, or instead of’ the  other 
measures depending on the circumstances of each individual case.  
64 ‘The wording of the first sentence [of Recital 148 GDPR] indicates that while it is possible to refrain from an 
order, when a fine is imposed, the opposite is not true’, DE SAs Objection, p. 8.  
65 AT SA Objection, p. 3, making reference to Art. 58(2)(i) GDPR and Recital 148 GDPR.  
66 AT SA Objection, p. 3. The AT SA refers to the Binding Decision 1/2021, particularly paragraph 414, to support 
the argument that a fine should reflect the circumstances of the case including those of the controller/processor 
who committed the infringement, namely its financial position. 

67 DE SAs  Objection, p. 7.  
68 ES SA Objection, p. 2.  
69 FR SA Objection, paragraph 8, p. 3. 
70 AT SA Objection, p. 3.  
71 DE SAs Objection, p. 11. The DE SAs also highlight that an ‘undertaking cannot expect in good faith that the 
unlawful processing that has been going on for several years will not be sanctioned’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 11).  
72 ES SA Objection, p. 3.  
73 AT SA Objection, p. 4; DE SAs Objection, p. 7-9, 11 (p. 11: ‘When weighing in the aspects of specific and general 
deterrence correctly, this also would have led to the decision to impose a fine. Aspects of both specific and 
general deterrence in this case additionally lead towards the imposition of a fine. Even  if the  DPC  –  as it 
wrongfully did – considered only a low weight for specific deterrence, all the other factors in quantity as well as 
quality  clearly  outweigh  the  DPC’s  mi tigating  considerations’);  ES SA  Objection,  p. 3;  FR SA  Objection, 
paragraphs 16-17. 

Adopted 

 

14 

achieve this goal ‘in order to raise awareness among controllers who  transfer personal  data to the 
United States’ 74  and avoid  that controllers  ‘come to the conclusion  that the cost  of  continuing an 
unlawful practice will outweigh the expected consequences of an infringement and will be less inclined 
to comply with the GDPR’ 75. The DE SAs  argue that this case ‘is a precedent that will affect many if 
not all cases of third country data transfers’, ‘closely watched by all undertakings participating in the 
Single  Economic  Market’ 76, and  that therefore ‘general deterrence is  of  higher  importance in  this 
specific  case’ 77.  According  to  the  DE SAs,  not  imposing  a  fine  ‘for  the  serious  infringement  of 
Article 46(1) GDPR could  not  ensure  a general preventive  effect of  the  compliance  order’ and  will 
rather have the opposite  effect 78, since other controllers ‘may orientate their compliance with data 
protection law considering  that infringements of Article 46 (1) GDPR are not sanctioned’ 79 and ‘may 
demand to be treated by other supervisory authorities as the DPC treated Meta’, after concluding that 
‘even total disrespect to the principles relating to the processing of personal data would not lead to 
administrative fines  at all’ 80. The  ES SA  express  their  concern that the Draft Decision  ‘would  set a 
precedent that would  make it difficult  to impose  fines  by  reducing the  enforcement power of  the 
authorities and their ability to ensure effective compliance with the GDPR’ 81. The FR SA underlines 
the risk that if no administrative fine is imposed, other controllers carrying out similar processing  and 
transferring personal data under  similar conditions  would  have no incentive to bring their transfers 
into conformity with the GDPR or to suspend them 82. 

47.  With respect to specific deterrence, according to the AT SA ‘an administrative fine is necessary to have 
a dissuasive  effect in the specific case, as Meta Ireland does not seem to have shown any efforts to 
refrain from transferring personal data to Meta Platforms, Inc.’ and has instead expressed that these 
transfers are necessary for it to continue to provide its services in the EU/EEA area 83. Along the same 
lines, the DE SAs note that the facts of the case do not indicate that Meta IE is sufficiently deterred by 
the order to no longer transfer personal data in the future 84 and that contrary to the IE SA’s opinion 
Meta IE  is  not  sufficiently  deterred  to  refrain  from  non-compliance  if  a  fine  is  not  imposed 85. 
According to the DE SAs, even if the envisaged order could be taken into account in assessing general 
deterrence,  ‘the  individual  case  at  hand  does  not  allow  to  conclude  that  Meta  is  sufficiently 
deterred’ 86: rather, ‘Meta did not declare that it recognizes its non-compliance in the past’, ‘did not 
show any form of active repentance that would allow the argument that an order alone would suffice 
to  change the  overall  attitude of  Meta towards general data protection  compliance’, and ‘did  not 

                                                             
74 AT SA Objection, p. 4.  
75 AT SA Objection, p. 4. In this regard, the AT SA also argues that if an administrative fine was not imposed in 
this case ‘controllers would be of the  impression that, even in case of an infringement of Art. 46(1) GDPR, 
respectively Chapter V of the GDPR, a future suspension of data transfers is the “worst-case outcome” and no 
other consequences for an unlawful behaviour in the past are to be expected’ (AT SA Objection, p. 4).  
76 DE  SAs Objection, p. 8.   
77 DE SAs Objection, p. 9. According to the DE SAs, if the IE SA ‘would have assessed this correctly, it would have 
come to a different conclusion regarding the imposition of a fine’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 9). 
78 DE SAs Objection, p. 7.  
79 DE SAs Objection, p. 7.  
80 DE SAs Objection, p. 7.  
81 ES SA Objection, p. 3. 
82 FR SA Objection, paragraphs 16 and 17. 
83 AT SA Objection, p. 4.  
84 DE SAs Objection, p. 8.    
85 DE SAs Objection, p. 7.  
86 DE SAs Objection, p. 8.  

Adopted 

 

15 

declare to accept the order to cease data transfers and to comply with the DPC’s order’  87. The DE SAs 
thus conclude that the IE SA incorrectly assessed the question  of specific deterrence and ‘wrongfully 
put excessive mitigating weight on this factor’ 88. The ES SA highlighted that ‘the measure suspending 
transfers has  effects with a forward-looking  nature but  has no  punitive  effect on  the infringement 
committed and that which is still committed, so that the measure does not have a deterrent effect’  89. 
According to the FR SA, the controller has no incentive to refrain from repeating such behaviour (and 
thus  unlawfully  transferring personal  data) or from  continuing it in  the context of  other processing 
operations it carries out. The draft decision in question only concerns  the Facebook service and not 
the other services proposed  by  the company Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (such  as, for instance, 
the Instagram and WhatsApp services) 90. 

48. 

The AT SA and DE SAs also disagree with the way in which the IE SA assesses or weighs the factors in 
Article 83(2) GDPR 91.  The  AT SA  flags  that  the  IE SA  states  in  its  Draft Decision  that  it  carefully 
considers  the criteria under  Article 83(2) GDPR but does  not provide  any  detailed reasoning 92. The 
DE SAs argues that the IE SA ‘did not [assess] the factors in Article 83 (2) GDPR or at least did not weigh 
these  factors  correctly’ 93  and  highlights  that  ‘it  is  necessary  to  provide  a  minimum  amount  of 
reasoning  regarding  the  application  of  these  factors  to  ensure  smooth  decisions  for  CSA  in 
Article 60 GDPR and  Article 65 GDPR procedures’, i.e. to  at least ‘establish  which  of  the factors  of 
Article 83(2) GDPR are  of  relevance  in  the  individual  case’ and  ‘indicate individually  whether the 
relevant factors were applied in a mitigating or aggravating manner’ 94.  

                                                             
87 DE SAs Objection, p. 8.  
88 DE SAs Objection, p. 8. According to the DE SAs, if the IE SA ‘would have assessed this correctly, it would have 
come to a different conclusion regarding the imposition of a fine' (DE SAs Objection, p. 8).  
89 ES SA Objection, p. 3.  
90 FR SA Objection, paragraph 16. 
91  On p. 8 of their objection, the DE SAs state that the IE SA ‘applied its discretion incorrectly, by not assessing 
certain factors, establishing factors incorrectly, weighing individual factors incorrectly and coming to an overall 
incorrect conclusion in the overall weighing of all relevant factors. If the [IE SA] would have applied this correctly, 
it would have come to the conclusion that a fine is indispensable and should be imposed in this case.’ Also, on 
p. , the DE SAs state that the IE SA ‘did not really take into account the factors in Article 83(2) GDPR, but only 
considerations regarding specific deterrence’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 9).  
92 AT SA Objection, p. 3.  
93 DE SAs Objection, p. 9. According to the DE SAs, ‘Even if we assume that the [IE SA] did take these factors into 
account, it failed to weigh them correctly’ (DE SAs Objection, p.  9), and if the IE SA had considered or correctly 
weighed these factors it would have come to the ‘conclusion that there a great many of substantial aggravating 
factors in terms of Article 83(2) GDPR but no mitigating ones’, which ‘alone should have led to the decision to 
impose a fine’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 11).  
94 DE SAs Objection, p. 9.  

Adopted 

 

16 

49. 

The AT SA and DE SAs also elaborate on how certain factors listed by Article 83(2) GDPR apply to the 
case at hand  and should  be  taken into  account as aggravating factors 95. The  ES SA  and FR SA  also 
provide, in their objections, relevant elements in this regard 96. More specifically:  

 

the application of Article 83(2)(a) GDPR and elements relevant to this factor are analysed 
by the AT SA 97, DE SAs 98, ES SA 99 and FR SA 100;  

                                                             
95 In its objection, the AT SA carries out an analysis of how certain factors listed by Art. 83(2) GDPR should be 
taken into account as ‘aggravating’ factors ‘when deciding whether to  impose an administrative fine and 
deciding on the amount of the administrative fine’ (AT SA Objection, p. 3-4).  

The DE SAs recall that ‘When deciding on whether to impose a fine or not the LSA has to take into account the 
sanctioning principles in Art. 83(1) GDPR as well as the specific factors in Art. 83(2) GDPR’ and that the ‘wording 
of Art. 83(2) GDPR [...] suggests that the criteria set out in Art. 83 (2) GDPR are not only important for the 
assessment of the level of an administrative fine, but also influences the discretion to issue an administrative 
fine. That conclusion is also supported by the French wording’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 7).  The DE SAs state that 
‘the fulfilment of several of the aggravating factors listed in Art. 83(2) GDPR speaks strongly in favour of the 
imposition of an administrative fine’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 7).   

According to the DE SAs, if the IE SA ‘would have considered or correctly weighed these factors it would have 
come to the conclusion that there are a great many of substantial aggravating factors in terms of Art. 83 (2) 
GDPR, but no mitigating ones’ and this ‘alone should have led to the decision to impose a fine’ (DE SAs Objection, 
p. 11).  

96 ES SA Objection, p. 2-3. FR SA Objection, p. 2-4.  
97 In this regard, the AT SA notes that Meta Ireland has ‘for several years transferred personal data of numerous 
data subjects  [...] to  Meta Platforms, Inc. in the  United States’ infringing upon Chapter V  GDPR and thus 
‘substantially and continuously’ violating data subjects’ rights under Art. 7, 8, and 47 of the CFR (AT SA Objection, 
p. 3). 
98  The DE SAs noted that ‘the large number of data subjects concerned and the long period of the infringement, 
result in a very serious infringement, which is an aggravating factor’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 9). With respect to the 
number of data subjects concerned, the DE SAs consider it is a ‘high number’ in ‘the nine-digit range’ (DE SAs 
Objection, p. 12), and refer to the fact that Meta has 309 million daily active users in Europe (including Turkey 
and Russia, according to Meta’s annual report for the year 2021, form 10 -K, p. 56) and is therefore one of the 
biggest operators of online platforms in the EU, resulting in the fact that ‘a large share of the entire population 
of the European Union is directly affected by the non-compliance of Meta’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 9 and footnote 
17).  
The  DE  SAs also note that ‘the  context of data processing extents to  huge amounts of social interactions 
generated by these data subjects each and every day for the past and ongoing’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 9).  
With respect to the duration of the infringement, the DE SAs conclude that it is ‘more than two years’ (DE SAs 
Objection, p. 12) and highlight that ‘the duration of the infringement for the data subjects extents to even before 
GDPR under the previous regimen with the same legal obligations for controller’ and that at the latest with the 
Schrems II Judgment Meta became aware of this non-compliance, which is relevant for the factor in Art. 83(2)(b) 
GDPR (DE SAs Objection, p. 9).   
99 The ES SA stated in its objection that ‘this infringement is particularly serious since it concerns transfers that 
are not occasional or sporadic’, but rather ‘systematic, mass, repetitive and continuous in nature’. According to 
the  ES  SA,  these circumstances ‘make it advisable to impose a fine appropriate to the  seriousness of the 
infringement’. ES SA Objection, p. 2. 
100  The FR SA highlighted that the infringement at stake ‘is a particularly serious breach in terms of the privacy 
of the data subjects’ since ‘the transfers at issue expose the personal data of the data subjects to US Government 
surveillance programs’, and that the infringement ‘concerns a particularly massive volume of data, since the 
Facebook service has millions of users in the European Union’ (FR SA Objection, paragraph 6 -7, p. 2). The FR SA 
concluded that an administrative fine must be imposed in this case given, inter alia, the  ‘gravity of the 

Adopted 

 

17 

 

 

 

the application of Article 83(2)(b) GDPR and elements relevant to this factor are analysed 
by the AT SA 101, DE SAs 102, ES SA 103 and FR SA 104; 

the application of Article 83(2)(d) GDPR is analysed by the DE SAs 105; 

the application of Article 83(2)(e) GDPR is analysed by the AT SA 106; 

                                                             
infringement’, the ‘number of data subjects affected’ and the ‘nature and duration of the infringement’ (FR SA 
Objection, paragraph 10, p. 3).  
101 With respect to the ‘Intentional or negligent character of the infringement’ (Art. 83(2)(b) GDPR), according 
to the AT SA Meta Ireland ‘acted at least with conditional intent (dolus eventualis), since it must have seriously 
considered a violation of Chapter V GDPR when carrying out data transfers’, in particular following the Schrems 
II judgment, and the IE SA’s conclusion that Meta Ireland acted in good faith is ‘not convincing’ (AT SA Objection, 
p. 4). 
102 The DE SAs note that the ‘data processing of the undertaking is under scrutiny of supervisory authorities since 
about ten years’ and that ‘Two decisions of the CJEU declared the data transfers unlawful’, with the last decision 
being about two years ago (DE SAs Objection, p. 9). According to the DE SAs, ‘the controller at hand considered 
that ruling insufficient and waits for a change of the legal basis by the legislator, without taking sufficient steps 
on its own to remedy the non-compliance’, and ‘it was obvious that the supplementary measures proposed by 
Meta would not be able to remedy the situation in terms of the risks identified by the CJEU’ in the Schrems II 
Judgment (DE  SAs Objection, p. 9).  The  DE  SAs conclude that Meta’s ‘inactivity constitutes an intentional 
infringement’, at least in the form of dolus eventualis, and that this should be considered as an aggravating 
factor (DE SAs Objection, p. 9 and footnote 18). The DE SAs refer to the infringement as ‘intentional’ also on p. 
12.      
103 The ES SA states in its objection that ‘the entity has been in breach of the GDPR despite its knowledge, since 
the judgment of 16 July 2020, that these transfers were in breach of the GDPR, because they still state that they 
cannot provide the service without carrying out the transfers and, in particular, because they  have not yet 
implemented measures to guarantee users’ rights and have not proposed to introduce them until this procedure 
has been initiated’ (ES SA Objection, p. 3).   
104 The FR SA argues that ‘the infringement was committed deliberately by the company, which could not have 
been unaware of the unlawful nature of the transfers implemented, at least since the [Schrems II] judgment, as 
this judgment concerned the conditions under which the company was transferring personal data to the United 
States’ (FR SA Objection, paragraph 7, p. 2-3). The FR SA concluded that an administrative fine must be imposed 
in this case given, inter alia, the ‘intentional character’ (FR SA Objection, paragraph 10, p. 3).  
105  According to the  DE SAs, the  degree of responsibility is to be considered ‘not lower than average’, and 
concerning the ‘amount of  data processed’ the ‘responsibility may have been  heightened above average’; 
therefore, this should be considered as an aggravating factor (DE SAs Objection, p. 10).   
106 With respect to the factor laid down by Art. 83(2)(e) GDPR (‘any relevant previous infringements by the 
controller or processor’), the AT SA notes that this is ‘not the first case where the DPC has established a violation 
of the GDPR by Meta Ireland’ (AT SA Objection, p. 4).  
 

Adopted 

 

18 

 

 

 

the application  of  Article 83(2)(g) GDPR and  some  elements relevant to  this  factor are 
analysed by the AT SA 107, DE SAs 108, ES SA 109 and FR SA 110; 

the application of Article 83(2)(h) GDPR is analysed by the DE SAs 111; 

the application of Article 83(2)(k) GDPR is analysed by the DE SAs 112.  

50. 

51. 

In light of the criteria they analyse, the DE SAs conclude that the ‘infringement should be classified in 
the high level of seriousness’ 113.  

The AT SA, DE SAs and FR SA also elaborate on some of the criteria to be employed in the calculation 
of the amount of the fine to be imposed 114.  

                                                             
107 In this regard, the AT SA  notes that Meta Ireland has ‘for several years transferred ... a high number of 
categories of personal data, including special categories of personal data (as laid down for example in paragraph 
4.4 of the Draft Decision) to Meta Platforms, Inc. in the United States’ infringing upon Chapter V GDPR and thus 
‘substantially and continuously’ violating data subjects’ rights under Art. 7, 8, and 47 of the CFR (AT SA Objection, 
p. 3). 
108 According to the DE SAs, the factor under Art. 83(2)(g) GDPR is to be considered as an aggravating factor (DE 
SAs Objection, p. 10). The DE  SAs note that the infringement committed by Meta ‘affects all data that are 
uploaded by data subjects and analysed by the controller for its own purposes’ and thus ‘concerns everyday 
data of social interactions with family, friends, acquaintances and others’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 10). The DE SAs 
also argue that a ‘map of social contacts is very interesting for foreign law enforcement and intelligence agencies, 
so that such data is an obvious target for these entities’, and that the data allows to infer not only ‘many matters 
of  private and professional lives’ but also ‘further data, including emotional a nd mental states’ (DE SAs 
Objection, p. 10). The DE SAs recall the Cambridge Analytica case to highlight that such data ‘can also be misused 
for political manipulation’ and ‘to manipulate democratic systems as a whole’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 10). 
In addition, the DE SAs highlight that the data at stake also include special categories of personal data, since the 
controller is ‘capable to channel advertisings regarding political opinions and possible further criteria’ (DE SAs 
Objection, p. 10 and footnote 19, where the objection makes reference to Meta’s Announcement of 9 November 
2021, available here:  https://www.facebook.com/business/news/removing-certain-ad-targeting-options-and-
expanding-our-ad-controls).     
109 The ES SA highlighted that the transfers ‘include special categories of personal data’. According to the ES SA, 
these circumstances ‘make it advisable to impose a fine appropriate to the seriousness of the infringement’. ES 
SA Objection, p. 2.  
110 The FR SA highlighted that the processing at stake concerns personal data including ‘photographs, videos or 
messages’ as well as possibly ‘[s]ensitive information related to religious convictions or political opinions, or to 
health status of individuals’ (FR SA Objection, paragraph 6, p. 2). 
111 In respect of the manner in which the infringement became known, the DE SAs note only that this occurred 
via ‘a submission of a data subject, not by chance or report by the controller itself’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 10).   
112 According to the DE SAs, among the other aggravating or mitigating factors applicable to the circumstances 
of the case to be considered pursuant to Art. 83(2)(k) GDPR there is the fact that the ‘Meta Group is an extremely 
profitable undertaking’, looking at its turnover for 2021 and its financial report for the second quarter of 2022; 
this is to be considered as a ‘highly aggravating factor’, as the ‘considerable economic and financial capacity 
should be taken into account when calculating the fine’, ‘even if there would be no specific fi nancial benefit 
gained with the infringement or where it could not be determined and/or calculated’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 10). 
The DE SAs also highlight that ‘Meta is a data driven undertaking and its turnover is almost completely a direct 
result of Meta’s data processing’, ‘cumulatively by one infrastructure from different markets with all effectivity 
and efficiency that results from that’, and that ‘Meta did not reinvest this turnover in order to withdraw the data 
from the US and to instead e.g. build up data centres in the EU’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 10). According to the DE 
SAs,  this means that Meta ‘directly benefitted from its own non-compliance and non-action to establish 
compliance’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 10).  
113 DE SAs Objection, p. 12.  
114 The DE SAs argue that it should be ‘of a substantial amount’  and ‘in a range where it is not expected that the 
specific controller will commit similar infringements again’, meaning that the fine  ‘needs to  have such a 

Adopted 

 

19 

52. 

53. 

The AT SA, DE SAs, ES SA, and FR SA also explain that failure to impose an administrative fine for the 
infringement at stake in addition to the envisaged suspension  would  pose  risks to the fundamental 
rights and freedoms of data subjects 115.  

Specifically, the AT SA argues that should an administrative fine not be imposed, ‘the rights of the data 
subjects would not be effectively safeguarded, thus creating an incentive for the controller and other 
entities to continue or engage in such violations’, sending a ‘wrong signal to other controllers’ 116: this 
‘would endanger the data subjects – with respect to their rights under the CFR, especially Articles 7, 8 
and 47 – whose  personal data are and will be processed by the controller or other controllers in the 
future’ 117. The AT SA also flags that ‘Ultimately, less compliance with the GDPR inevitably leads to less 
protection of  data subjects  in  relation to  the processing  of  personal  data’  118 and that not properly 
addressing  the  infringement  ‘would  generally   endanger  compliance  with  the  GDPR on  a  general 
level’ 119. 

                                                             
noticeable impact on the profits of the undertaking that future infringements of data protection law would not 
be ‘discounted’ into the processing performed by the undertaking’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 11). According to the 
DE SAs, it has to be recalled also that the amount needs to have a general preventive effect, therefore it must 
be such that ‘other controllers will take an example in view of the amount of the fine and make significant efforts 
to  avoid similar violations’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 11). The  DE  SAs also  state that the  ‘classification  of the 
infringement in the high level of seriousness allows to determine an appropriate starting amount of 20 up to 
100% of the fining range’, but ‘the high level of seriousness requires that the fining range must be used in such 
a way that the amount of the fine does not come close to the lower limit’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 12).  
The DE SAs also argue that another factor to be taken into account in calculating the amount of the fine is the 
financial benefit obtained by the undertaking, which should be ‘absorbed by the fine’: according to the DE SAs, 
‘the undertaking saved expenses in the high nine-digit or lower ten-digit range’ due to the fact that ‘no complex 
organisational and technical measures were taken regarding data subjects located in the EEA to process their 
personal data only in the EEA and third countries with an adequate level of protection’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 12). 
Additionally, the DE SAs argue that the transfer of personal data to the US allowed ‘more detailed and reliable 
analyses of the users’ behaviour, which most likely may have increased the advertising value of the processed 
data’ (DE SAs Objection, p. 12). The DE SAs note that such findings are not part of the Draft Decision.   
The AT SA highlighted that the calculation of the amount of the fine to be imposed needs to rely upon the EDPB 
Guidelines 04/2022 on the calculation of administrative fines under the GDPR, Version 1.0, adopted on 12 May 
2022 (hereinafter ‘EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines’) (AT SA Objection, footnote 1) and appropriately 
take into account the circumstances of the individual case (AT SA Objection, p. 5) including the annual turnover 
of Meta Ireland. ‘The Austrian DPA is not in the position to assess the appropriate amount of the administrative 
fine as the  Draft Decision lacks findings on the annual turnover of Meta Ireland, a relevant factor for this 
calculation. Therefore, further investigative steps on the annual turnover of Meta Ireland would be necessary.’ 
(AT SA Objection, p. 5). 
The FR SA argued that also ‘taking the company’s turnover into account’ a ‘very significant fine must be imposed’ 
and that a ‘particularly high fine is necessary in order that the sanction may be dissuasive and have a punitive 
function’ (FR SA Objection, paragraph 11, p. 3). The FR SA makes reference to Meta IE’s inescapable place in 
France’, to the  fact that the  Facebook social network dominates the social media market i n France, to the 
‘network effects’ generated by this, and to the role occupied by Facebook in other areas such as access to 
information or civil security (FR SA Objection, paragraphs 12-13, p. 3). 
115 AT  SA  Objection, p. 5 (‘In case the Draft Decision is approved in the current version, the absence of an 
administrative fine poses risks to the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects’), DE SAs Objection, p. 
11-12, ES SA Objection, p. 2-3, FR SA Objection, p. 3-4.  
116 AT SA Objection, p. 5. Similarly, the AT SA argued that if the IE SA did not use its corrective powers there 
would be the ‘danger that other companies continue with unlawfully transferring personal data to the United 
States’ (AT SA Objection, p. 2).  
117 AT SA Objection, p. 5.  
118 AT SA Objection, p. 2.  
119 AT SA Objection, p. 2. 

Adopted 

 

20 

54. 

55. 

56. 

The DE SAs argue that the Draft Decision, and specifically its ‘essential shortcoming’ consisting in the 
absence  of  an  administrative fine,  ‘would  lead  to  significant  risks  for  the  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms of the data subjects’ 120. This is because the enforcement of the GDPR aims to protect the 
fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data  subjects 121,  and  an  effective  enforcement  is  a 
precondition for such protection, but this cannot be ensured in this case without the imposition  of an 
administrative fine 122, as ‘Non-compliance with GDPR would not cause any costs and therefore, from 
an economical point of a view could be a reasonable option for controllers’ 123.  

The ES SA argues in this regard that ‘If the procedure is concluded without the imposition of a fine for 
the infringement committed and still committed, there are significant risks to the fundamental rights 
and freedoms  of all users  of the services  of the controller, since, if  the infringement does  not have 
sufficiently  dissuasive  financial  consequences  for  the  infringer,  the  data  subjects  could  lose  the 
guarantees they derive  from  the GDPR as compared  to other legislation  as evidenced  by  the CJEU 
ruling  of  16 July  2020  in  Case C-311/18,  annulling  a system  which  considered  that it  did  not  offer 
sufficient  safeguards’ 124. The ES SA  also highlights that the suspension  would  not have a deterrent 
effect 125.  

The FR SA argues that the Draft Decision ‘would present a significant risk for the rights and  freedoms 
of  the data subjects’ 126 because ‘in  the absence of  a fine  against the controller, the draft decision 
would not have any dissuasive  character, neither against the controller in question, nor against other 
controllers’ 127. According to the FR SA, the suspension  of an unlawful transfer is already an obligation 
resulting expressly  from the GDPR and the Schrems II judgment and if only  a suspension  is imposed, 
‘the only risk  for a controller who fails to comply with its obligation to suspend  an unlawful  t ransfer 
would be that a supervisory  authority would order it to do so’ 128. ‘This total lack of dissuasive  effect 
of  the  draft decision  constitutes  a  risk  for  the  fundamental  rights and  freedoms  of  data subjects’ 
because ‘the controller has no incentive to refrain from repeating such behaviour (and thus unlawfully 
transferring personal data) or from continuing it in the context of other processing operations it carries 
out’ 129. The FR SA also argues that ‘Other controllers carrying out similar processing operations and 
in particular transferring personal data under similar conditions  have thus no incentive to bring their 
transfers into conformity  with the GDPR or to suspend  them’ 130 and concludes  that ‘data transfers 

                                                             
120 DE SAs Objection, p. 12.  
121 The  DE SAs also highlight that Recital 148 GDPR clarifies that administrative fines aim to strengthen the 
enforcement of the GDPR (DE SAs Objection, p. 11).  
122 According to the DE SAs, an ‘effective enforcement can only be reached if the fine is effective and both special 
preventive and general preventive. [...] The lack of proposing a fine for the violation of Art. 46 (1) GDPR is, 
however, not able to create an effect in relation to the undertaking at all, much less a deterrent effect’ (DE SAs 
Objection, p. 12). 
123 DE SAs Objection, p. 12. The DE SAs also argue that the « lack of proposing a fine for the violation of Art. 46(1) 
GDPR is, however, not able to create an effect in relation to the undertaking at all » (DE SAs Objection, p. 12).  
124 ES SA Objection, p. 3.  
125 ES SA Objection, p. 3. The ES also highlights that , that it would set a precedent that would make it difficult to 
impose fines by reducing the enforcement power of  the  authorities and their ability to ensure effective 
compliance with the GDPR , that the non-imposition of a fine would lead the infringing entities to consider that 
the  infringement of  the  GDPR  does not  have  financial punitive consequences, that it  would constitute 
discriminatory treatment in relation to other undertakings which are or may be fined for the same infringement.  
126 FR SA Objection, paragraph 14, p. 3. 
127 FR SA Objection, paragraph 14, p. 3. 
128 FR SA Objection, paragraph 15, p. 4. 
129 (reference is made to other services of Meta) (FR SA Objection, paragraph 16, p. 4). 
130 FR SA Objection, paragraph 17, p. 4. 

Adopted 

 

21 

such as the one at issue would be encouraged by a draft decision that would not contain any punitive 
measure and this constitutes a strong risk for the right to privacy of the data subjects’  131.  

57.  According to the AT SA  and ES SA, a failure to impose an administrative fine in this case would also 
possibly  jeopardise  the consistent application of  the GDPR or create discriminatory treatment as in 
similar cases an administrative fine would likely be imposed, and this case would set a precedent  132. 

4.3  Position of the LSA on the objections 

58. 

59. 

60. 

The  IE SA  considers  that the  objections  raised  by  the  AT  SA, FR  SA  and  DE  SAs  are ‘relevant and 
reasoned’ for the purpose  of Article 4(24)  GDPR.  In the case of  the objection  raised by  the ES SA, 
however, the IE SA  considers  that this objection  is  not  ‘relevant and reasoned’ on  the basis  that it 
‘does not clearly demonstrate the significance of the risks posed by  the draft decision  in relation to 
the fundamental rights and freedoms  of  data subjects’ 133.  In relation to the subject-matter of  the 
objections, the IE SA considers that it would not be possible  to reach consensus  on the matters arising 
from  the  objections  and  determines  that  the  most  appropriate  course  of  action  is  to  refer  the 
objections to the EDPB for determination in accordance with Articles 60(4) and 65(1)(a) GDPR 134.  

The IE SA notes that the objections  and comments in relation to the imposition  of an administrative 
fine ‘broadly focus on concerns of deterrence and effectiveness’ 135. The IE SA reiterates its view that 
an administrative fine  in addition  to the suspension  order ‘would not be  appropriate, necessary or 
proportionate to the circumstances of the within inquiry’ 136 and would not be effective, proportionate 
and dissuasive  as required by Article 83(1) GDPR 137.  

In response to the ES SA’s concern regarding the discriminatory treatment vis-à-vis other controllers, 
the IE SA highlights that the decisions  issued  following the 101 complaints lodged by  the non-profit 
None of Your Business - European Center for Digital Rights (hereinafter, ‘NOYB’) concerning the use 
of  Google  Analytics  have  found  an  infringement  of  the  GDPR  without,  however,  imposing  an 
administrative  fine 138.  According  to  the  IE  SA,  ‘in  light  of  the  outcomes  recorded  in  the  Google 
Analytics-focused  complaint-based  inquiries,  it would  be  inconsistent  to  seek  to impose  a punitive 
sanction on Meta Ireland when similar punitive sanctions have not yet been imposed on either: (i) the 
entities which were found to have unlawfully used Google Analytics; or (ii) Google LLC itself’ 139.  

                                                             
131 FR SA Objection, paragraph 18, p. 4. 
132 According to the AT SA, risks are posed for the ‘consistent application of the GDPR’ as ‘i n similar cases ... an 
administrative fine would likely be imposed’, thus the Draft Decision ‘may lead to the provisions of the GDPR 
not being consistently implemented’ (AT SA Objection, p. 3, 5).  
The ES SA argues ‘it would constitute discriminatory treatment in relation to other undertakings which are or 
may be fined for the same infringement, and it is difficult to understand that such a serious infringement does 
not entail a fine. In addition it would set a precedent that would make it difficult to impose fines by reducing the 
enforcement power of the authorities and their ability to ensure effective compliance with the GDPR’ (ES SA 
Objection, p. 3).  
133 IE SA’s ‘Internal Assessment of the Status of Objections’, annex to the IE SA’s letter to Meta IE dated 28 
September 2023. 
134 Memorandum to the EDPB Secretariat dated 19 January 2023, p. 2. 
135 Composite Response, p.1. 
136 Composite Response, p.2. 
137 Composite Response, p.2. 
138 Composite Response, p.2. 
139 Composite Response, p.2. 

Adopted 

 

22 

61. 

62. 

In relation  to the CSAs’  suggestion  that Meta IE ought to  have stopped  transferring personal  data 
following the delivery of the CJEU’s judgment of 16 July  2020 140, the IE SA notes that, following the 
Schrems  II judgment,  Meta IE  implemented  measures  to  supplement  the  2021  SCCs  and  which  it 
considered to provide appropriate safeguards to the data subjects 141. The IE SA also recalls that Meta 
IE has made alternative submissions  seeking to rely on the derogations under Article 49 GDPR  142.  

The IE SA notes that, while it ultimately determined that neither the supplemental measures nor the 
Article 49 derogations could be relied upon by Meta IE to ground the transfer of personal data to the 
US, ‘it does  not  follow  that Meta Ireland ought to have  known, following  the delivery  of  the CJEU 
Judgment,  that it  was  not  entitled  to  transfer  personal  data  to  the  US  in  reliance  on  either  the 
supplemental  measures or the Article 49 derogations’ 143. This is  particularly the case in relation to 
Meta IE’s alternative reliance on the Article 49 derogations, given the clear suggestion  – set out in 
paragraph 202 of the Schrems II judgment – that it might be possible  for data transfers to the US to 
take place on the basis of the derogations provided for in Article 49 GDPR. The IE SA explains that it 
was in  these circumstances that the Draft Decision recorded (in paragraph 9.48 thereof) that ‘in the 
interim, the Data Transfers were being effected, in  good  faith, under  and  by  reference to  transfer 
mechanisms  provided  for  at  law’. In  addition,  according  to  the  IE SA,  no  CSA  has  challenged the 
conclusion  that Meta IE had  acted in  good  faith when relying  on  transfer mechanisms  to  continue 
transferring data 144.  

63. 

In light of  the  above, the IE SA concludes  that an  administrative fine, the objective  of  which  is  ‘to 
sanction  wrongdoing  that  has  already  occurred’,  would  be  ‘a  disproportionate  response  in  the 
circumstances of this particular case’ and decides not to follow the objections 145. 

4.4  Analysis of the EDPB 

4.4.1  Assessment of whether  the objections were  relevant and reasoned  

64. 

65. 

The objections  raised by the AT SA, ES SA, DE SAs and FR SAs concern ‘whether the action envisaged 
in the Draft Decision complies with the GDPR’ 146. 

The EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s view that not a single objection put forward by the CSAs  meets the 
threshold of Article 4(24) GDPR 147. Meta IE argues that CSAs must ‘limit their Objections to the specific 
corrective measures proposed  by the DPC as LSA and whether these comply with the GDPR’ and may 
not ‘substitute their own view of the appropriate corrective measures’ 148 concluding that none of the 
objections are relevant 149. 

                                                             
140 Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd and Another, Case C-311/18 ECLI:EU:C:2020:559, 
judgment delivered by the Court of Justice of the EU on 16 July 2020 
141 Composite Response, p.2. 
142 Composite Response, p.2. 
143 Composite Response, p.3. 
144 Composite Response, p.3. 
145 Composite Response, p.3. 
146 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 32.  
147 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.28 (AT SA), 2.45 (DE SAs), 2.19 (ES SA), 2.37 (FR SA).  
148 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.29-2.30 (AT SA), 2.46-2.47 (DE SAs), 2.20-2.21 (ES SA), 
2.38-2.39 (FR SA). 
149 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.31 (AT SA), 2.48 (DE SAs), 2.22 (ES SA), 2.40 (FR SA). 

Adopted 

 

23 

66. 

67. 

The EDPB is of the view that CSAs  are not restricted to criticising the corrective measures set out by 
an LSA in its draft decision, but may ask for specific additional corrective measures to be taken by the 
LSA - provided  the objection is sufficiently reasoned to demonstrate that the lack thereof means the 
envisaged  action of  the LSA  does  not  comply  with  the GDPR taking into  consideration  the risks  at 
stake 150. This is a possibility  both to address infringements already identified in the Draft Decision or, 
as the case may be, identified by the CSA in an objection raised 151.  

The AT SA, ES SA, DE SAs and FR SAs disagree with a specific part of the IE SA’s Draft Decision, where 
the IE SA decided not to impose an administrative fine, by arguing that an administrative fine should 
have been imposed in the Draft Decision in addition to the order to suspend transfers 152. If followed, 
these  objections  would  lead  to a  different  conclusion  as  to the  choice  of  corrective measures. In 
consequence, the EDPB finds the objections to be relevant.  

68.  On the factual elements and legal arguments put forward by the AT SA and DE SAs, Meta IE does not 
allege any shortcoming 153. On the reasoning set out by the ES SA and FR SA, Meta IE alleges they do 
not  provide  sound  and  substantiated  reasoning  and  thus  do  not  meet  the  threshold  of 
Article 4(24) GDPR 154. Specifically, Meta IE refers to the factors listed in Article 83(2) GDPR and argues 
that the ES  SA  ‘fails  to  provide  any  analysis  of  these  factors and  does  not  suggest that the DPC’s 
analysis  of them was flawed’ 155  and instead makes ‘broad and misguided  claims’, for example that 
‘this  infringement  is  particularly  serious  since  it  concerns  transfers  which  are  not  occasional  or 
sporadic’ and that Meta Ireland ‘is an entity that generates huge profits’ 156. Similarly, Meta IE asserts 
that the FR SA ‘does not provide any reasoned assessment of the Article 83(2) factors, simply asserting 
that it  “thinks  that, in  this  case, an  administrative  fine  must  be  imposed  given  the  gravity of  the 
infringement, the number of data subjects affected, the nature and duration of the infringement and 
the intentional character”’ 157.  

69. 

The EDPB recalls that ‘the degree of  detail of  the objection  and the depth of  the analysis  included 
therein may be affected by the degree of detail in the content of the draft decision and by the degree 
of involvement of the CSA in the process leading to the draft decision’ 158. In the current case, the Draft 
                                                             
150 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 33 and examples 5 and 6. 
151 See EDPB Binding Decision 3/2022 on the dispute submitted by the Irish SA on Meta Platforms Ireland Limited 
and its Facebook service (Art. 65 GDPR), adopted on 5 December 2022 (hereinafter, ‘Binding Decision 3/2022’) 
paragraphs 275-276 and 416, EDPB Binding Decision 4/2022 on the dispute submitted by the Irish SA on Meta 
Platforms Ireland Limited and its Instagram Service (Art. 65), adopted on 5 December 2022 (hereinafter, ‘Binding 
Decision 4/2022’) paragraph 265, and EDPB Binding Decision 5/2022 on the dispute submitted by the Irish SA 
regarding WhatsApp Ireland Limited (Art. 65 GDPR), adopted on 5 December 2022  (hereinafter, ‘Binding 
Decision 5/2022’), paragraphs 232 - 233.  
152 AT SA Objection, p. 5 ; DE SAs Objection, p. 12 ; ES SA Objection, p. 3 ; FR SA Objection, paragraphs 10-11 and 
19.  
153 Meta IE argues these objections nevertheless present shortcomings as far as the clear demonstration of the 
significance of the risks posed by the Draft Decision required by Art. 4(24) GDPR is concerned, as further 
explained below.  
154 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.23 (ES SA), 2.42 (FR SA). 
155 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraph 2.24. While Meta IE asserts in this paragraph that ‘Art. 83(2) 
GDPR sets out an exhaustive list of factors to be considered when deciding whether to impose an administrative 
fine’, the EDPB deems Art. 83(2) GDPR open-ended in nature. See Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraphs 386-387; 
Binding Decision 4/2022, paragraph 392; Binding Decision 1/2021, paragraph 410; See also EDPB Guidelines on 
calculation of fines, paragraph 108-109. 
156 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraph 2.24. 
157 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraph 2.42. 
158 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 8.  

Adopted 

 

24 

Decision  does  not include  an  analysis  of  the  factors of  article 83(2)  GDPR, yet  in  part the  dispute 
revolves around these factors 159. The EDPB also takes the view that CSAs are not required to engage 
in a full assessment of all the aspects of Article 83 GDPR in order for an objection on the appropriate 
administrative  fine  to  be  considered  reasoned.  In  this  regard, it  is  entirely  possible  to  argue an 
administrative fine is not ‘effective, proportionate and dissuasive’ in the meaning of Article 83(1) GDPR 
without referring to a specific criterion listed in Article 83(2) GDPR 160. It is sufficient  to lay out which 
aspect of the Draft Decision that, in their view, is deficient/erroneous and why 161.  

70. 

In the case at hand, in any event, both the ES SA and the FR SA clearly explain in their objection why 
they  deem  a  change  to  the  Draft  Decision  necessary.  The  ES  SA  indeed  puts  forward  specific 
arguments, in  particular its  view that the transfers are not  occasional  or sporadic,  adding  they are 
‘systematic, mass, repetitive and continuous  in nature, which include special  categories of personal 
data’, which the EDPB understands as a concise but clear reference to the facts identified by the IE SA 
in the Draft Decision and not disputed  by the ES SA 162, as well as to certain factors listed by Article 
83(2) GDPR. In addition the ES SA argues that the circumstance that Meta IE is ‘an entity that generates 
huge  profits’  is  pertinent when  assessing  the proportionality  of  a  fine 163. Furthermore, the  FR  SA 
provides  more details than the summary statement cited by Meta IE 164, as explained in detail above 
in paragraph 56.   

71.  Concerning  whether  these  objections  are  adequately  ‘reasoned’,  the  EDPB  recalls  that  this 
requirement  is  connected  to  whether  they  include  clarifications  and  arguments  as  to  why  an 
amendment to the draft decision  is proposed 165. The EDPB finds that all of these objections  include 
sufficient  arguments and  clarifications  as  to  the factual elements  and  legal arguments  supporting 
these requests for change (i.e. the request for the imposition of an administrative fine). As explained 
in Section  4.2 of  this Binding Decision, the objections  raised by the AT SA, DE SAs,  ES SA and FR SA 
explain thoroughly why the specific aspect of the Draft Decision consisting in the choice not to impose 
an  administrative  fine 
line  with  the  threshold  of 
Article 4(24) GDPR.  

is  deficient  /  erroneous 166.  This 

in 

is 

72. 

In order  for  objections  to meet the  threshold  set  by  Article 4(24)  GDPR, they also  need  to  clea rly 
demonstrate the significance of the risks  posed  by the draft decision.  In this regard, Meta IE argues 
that the AT SA, ES SA, DE SAs and FR SAs do not sufficiently demonstrate that the Draft Decision poses 
a significant risk to fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects.  

73.  Meta IE asserts  the AT  SA  does  not  sufficiently  demonstrate the  risk  posed  by  the Draft Decision, 
‘particularly in circumstances where the Austrian SA accepts that the Transfer Suspension Order would 
be “suitable” for the purposes  of bringing Meta Ireland into compliance with the GDPR’ 167. The EDPB 

                                                             
159 See Section 4.2 above. 
160 The EDPB Guidelines on RRO include this example (Example 7, paragraph 34).  
161  See  EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 17; Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 422; Binding Decision 
4/2022, paragraph 392. 
162 ES SA Objection, p. 2 ; Draft Decision, paragraphs 4.4, 4.7, 6.1, 8.45, 8.47, 8.49, 8.50, 8.57, 8.81, 8.82, 8.83, 
8.85, 8.87, 8.89, 8.90.  
163 ES SA Objection, p. 3.  
164 FR SA Objection, paragraphs 6 and 7. See the summary cited by Meta IE above, paragraph 68.   
165 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 16.  
166 AT SA Objection, p. 2-4 ; DE SAs Objection, p. 7-11 ; ES SA Objection, p. 2-3 ; FR SA Objection, paragraphs 6-
17. See summary in Section 4 above. 
167 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraph 2.32, citing AT SA Objection, p. 3. 

Adopted 

 

25 

fails to see how an acknowledgement by the AT SA that it agrees in part with the Draft Decision (the 
chosen corrective measure is suitable), could be understood as undermining the objection expressed 
by  the  AT  SA  (expressing,  in  a  nutshell,  the  view  that  the  chosen  corrective  measure  is  not 
sufficient) 168.  Similarly,  Meta  IE  claims  the  ES  SA  ‘appears  to  be  of  the  view  that  the  Transfer 
Suspension  Order would  bring Meta Ireland into  compliance with the GDPR’ 169, however the EDPB 
cannot identify any such position  in the objection 170. 

74.  Meta IE dismisses  as unsubstantiated the arguments raised by the AT SA, ES SA, DE SAs and FR SA on 
the risk that the Draft Decision will not have a sufficient specific deterrent effect towards Meta IE and 
concludes  that  the  lack  of  administrative  fine  would  not  pose  significant  risks  to  data  subjects’ 
fundamental rights and freedoms 171. Meta IE adds that the DE SAs and FR SA overlook ‘the significant 
adverse  impacts of  the proposed  Transfer Suspension  Order, and  it  is  incorrect and  unrealistic  to 
suggest that this will not dissuade Meta Ireland (and others) from non-compliance’ 172. The EDPB notes 
that the DE SAs and FR SA included in their objection clear arguments explaining why, in their view, 
the imposition  of  a fine  would  have  a dissuasive  effect  that the  proposed  suspension  order  alone 
would  not  have.  Moreover, considering  the context  of  the  Inquiry  -  and  the  lengthy  proceedings 
leading up to it 173 - the EDPB finds  the concerns expressed on  specific deterrence both ‘substantial 
and plausible’ in the sense of the EDPB Guidelines on RRO 174.  

75.  Meta IE dismisses  as mere speculation the concerns articulated by the AT SA, DE SAs, ES SA and FR SA 
about  the  precedent  the  Draft  Decision  sets  in  terms  of  use  of  corrective  powers  as  general 
deterrent 175. The EDPB recalls that any risk assessment addresses future outcomes, which are to some 
degree uncertain. The EDPB finds  the objections  reflect specifically on  the likely  effects of the Draft 
Decision  on  other  controllers, weighing  the  expected costs  and  gains  of  compliance,  and  thus  go 
beyond mere speculation 176.   

                                                             
168 ‘[T]he Austrian DPA believes that in addition to the suspension of data transfers an administrative fine should 
be imposed’, AT SA Objection, p. 1.  
169 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraph 2.25, citing ES SA Objection, p. 2.  
170 On the contrary, the ES  SA states that ‘The AEPD agrees with the DPC’s conclusion that the suspension 
measure is less onerous than the prohibition and agrees that, as argued by the Irish authority, this measure is 
imposed instead of the prohibition. However, it does not agree that these are the only possible measures to be 
taken.’ (ES SA Objection, p. 2) and ‘the measure suspending transfers has effects with a forward-looking nature 
but has no punitive effect on the infringement committed and that which is still committed, so that the measure 
does not have a deterrent effect’ (ES SA Objection, p. 3). The reference to ‘effects with a forward-looking nature’ 
cannot be understood to mean the ES SA takes the view proposed by Meta IE.  
171 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.34 (AT SA), 2.25 (ES SA), 2.50 (DE SAs), 2.41 (FR SA). 
172 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.50 (DE SAs), 2.41 (FR SA). 
173 Draft Decision, paragraphs 1.6 and 2.1 and following. 
174 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 37.  
175 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.34 (AT SA), 2.50 (DE SAs), 2.25 (ES SA), 2.41  (FR SA). See 
AT SA Objection, p. 4 ; DE SAs Objection, p. 7, 8-9 ; ES SA Objection, p. 3; FR SA Objection, paragraphs 14-18.  
176 ‘If an administrative fine were not imposed in this specific case, controllers would be of the impression that, 
even in case of an infringement of Article 46(1) GDPR, respectively Chapter V GDPR, a future suspension of data 
transfers is the “worst-case outcome” and no other consequences for an unlawful behavior in the past are to be 
expected. It is a cause of concern for the Austrian DPA that some controllers might come to the conclusion that 
the cost of continuing an unlawful practice will outweigh the expected consequences of an infringement and 
will be less inclined to comply with the GDPR.’ AT SA Objection, p. 4. ‘Indeed, there are many undertakings 
affected by the Schrems-II ruling. The case at hand therefore is a precedent that will affect many if not all other 
cases of third country data transfers as well and is closely watched by all undertakings participating in the Single 
Economic Market. If the only thing that they need to fear is an order to stop transfers from the ord er going 

Adopted 

 

26 

76. 

In summary, the EDPB finds  that the AT SA, DE SAs, ES SA and FR SA clearly articulate why an adverse 
effect on  the rights  and freedoms  of  data subjects  would  be  produced  if  the Draft Decision  is  left 
unchanged. These  concerns  entail a reflection  on  a failure  to guarantee a  high level  of  protection 
under EU law for the rights and interests of the individuals  177.  Therefore, the EDPB finds  that AT SA, 
DE SAs, ES SA and FR SA clearly demonstrate the significance of the risks  to the data subjects posed 
by the Draft Decision. 

77.  Considering the above, the EDPB finds that the aforementioned objections of the AT SA, DE SAs, ES SA 

and FR SA are relevant and reasoned pursuant to Article 4(24) GDPR.   

4.4.2  Assessment on the merits 

78. 

79. 

80. 

In accordance with  Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, the EDPB shall  take a binding  decision  concerning all the 
matters which  are the subject  of  the  relevant and  reasoned  objections,  in  particular whether the 
envisaged action in the Draft Decision with regard to the controller complies with the GDPR. The EDPB 
considers  that the objections  found  to be relevant and reasoned in this section, raised by the AT SA, 
DE SAs, ES SA, and FR SA, requested the IE SA to exercise its power to impose an administrative fine 
and propose the imposition of corrective measures in addition to the ones proposed in the LSA’s Draft 
Decision. When assessing the merits of  the objection raised, the EDPB also takes into account Meta 
IE’s position on the objection and its submissions. 

The EDPB is  therefore required to assess  whether the IE SA’s  proposal  in the Draft Decision  not to 
impose  an administrative fine  pursuant to Article 58(2)(i)  GDPR for the infringement by  Meta IE of 
Article 46(1)  GDPR is in accordance with the GDPR. Meta IE’s position ‘is that the DPC exercised its 
discretion  properly  in  the Draft Decision  in  deciding not  to impose  an  administrative fine on  Meta 
Ireland’ 178. 

The  EDPB  recalls  that  the  consistency  mechanism  may  also  be  used  to  promote  a  consistent 
application  of  administrative fines,  as highlighted  by  Recital 150  GDPR 179. This  is  the  case, among 
others, in situations  where the relevant and reasoned objections  challenge the decision  by the LSA 
not  to propose  the imposition  of  an  administrative fine  (and  propose  the  imposition  of  additional 

                                                             
forward, many managers might decide to just continue the transfer until they get caught’, DE SAs objection, p. 
8. ‘[T]he non-imposition of a fine would lead the infringing entities to consider that the infringement of the GDPR 
does not have financial punitive consequences.’, ES SA Objection, p. 2. ‘Other controllers carrying out similar 
processing operations and in particular transferring personal data under similar conditions have thus no 
incentive to bring their transfers into conformity with the GDPR or to suspend them’, FR SA Objection, paragraph 
17. 
177 See also EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 37; Judgement of the Court of Justice of 6 November 2003, 
Lindqvist, Case C-101/01, ECLI:EU:C:2003:596, paragraph 95; C-524/06 Huber, paragraph 50; Judgement of the 
Court of Justice of 24 November 2011, Asociación Nacional de Establecimientos Financieros de Crédito, C-468/10 
and C-469/10, ECLI:EU:C:2011:777, paragraph 28. 
178 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 15.2.  
179 Recital 150 GDPR; EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 34 and EDPB Guidelines on Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, 
paragraph 91; Binding Decision 1/2021, paragraph 281; Binding Decision 1/2022, paragraph 57; Binding Decision 
2/2022, paragraph 191; Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraphs 291, 351 and 438;   Binding Decision 4/2022, 
paragraphs 278, 292, 344 and 407,  Binding Decision 5/2022, paragraphs 259, 303 and 306. 

Adopted 

 

27 

corrective measures 180)  and in  situations  where a relevant and  reasoned objection  challenges the 
elements relied upon by the LSA to calculate the amount of the fine 181.  

81.  Meta IE considers that the LSA has sole discretion to determine the appropriate corrective measure 
and that Article 65(1) GDPR does not confer competence to the EDPB to instruct the LSA to impose an 
administrative fine 182.  According to Meta IE, it would be contrary to Articles 4(24) and 58(2)(i) GDPR 
‘for the CSAs  and/or  the EDPB to seek to substitute their own views  of the corrective measures for 
those  of the [IE SA]’ 183. In this respect, the EDPB highlights  that the views  of Meta IE amount to a 
misunderstanding of the GDPR one-stop-shop mechanism and of the shared competences of the CSAs. 
The GDPR requires  supervisory  authorities  to cooperate pursuant  to  Article 60 GDPR to achieve a 
consistent  interpretation of  the Regulation 184. Pursuant to Articles 56(1)  and 60(1)  GDPR, in cross-
border  cases, the  LSA  shall  cooperate with  the  other  CSAs  in  an  endeavour  to  reach  consensus.  
Considering that in such cases the final decision of the LSA has cross-border effects (potentially across 
the entire EEA), consensus should also be reached with regard to the appropriate corrective measures. 
While the LSA is the authority that can ultimately exercise the corrective powers listed in Article 58(2) 
GDPR, this cannot diminish  the role of the CSAs within the cooperation procedure or the role of the 
EDPB in the consistency procedure 185.  

82. 

The CSAs  may raise an objection on the existing or missing corrective measures in the Draft Decision 
when, in their views,  the envisaged action does not comply with the GDPR, in which case they should 
indicate  which  action  they  believe  would  be  appropriate  for  the  LSA  to  include  taking  into 
consideration  the risks  at stake 186.  The dispute  resolution  competence of the EDPB covers  ‘all the 
matters which  are the  subject  of  the  relevant  and  reasoned  objections’ 187.  Therefore, in  case  of 
disagreement, the consistency mechanism may also be used to promote a consistent application by 
the supervisory  authorities of their corrective powers, taking into account the range of powers listed 
in Article 58(2) GDPR 188, when a relevant and reasoned objection questions  the action(s) envisaged 
by the Draft Decision vis-a-vis  the controller/processor, or the absence thereof.  

                                                             
180  The  EDPB has explicitly  confirmed, by means of  examples in the  EDPB Guidelines on RRO, that, when 
formulating relevant and reasoned objections, the CSAs can propose additional corrective measures, including 
fines. See paragraph 66 above and EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 33, examples 5 and 6. 
181 In this case, the EDPB can instruct the LSA to engage in a new calculation of the proposed fine on the basis of 
the criteria in Art. 83 GDPR and of the common standards established by the EDPB. EDPB Guidelines on RRO, 
paragraph 34.  
182 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraphs 15.1-15.2.  
183 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 15.1.  
184 See  Art. 51(2), 60, 61(1) GDPR, and Judgment of the Court (Grand Chamber) of 15 June 2021, C-645/19 
Facebook v Gegevensbeschermingsautoriteit, ECLI:EU:C:2021:483, paragraphs 53, 63, 68, 72. The EDPB notes 
that, in paragraph 7.2 of Meta IE Art.  65 Submissions, Meta IE refers to paragraph 112 of the  Schrems II 
judgement and argues that ‘The DPC has sole competence to make a context-specific determination on what 
the specific corrective measures should be in each case. This is consistent with the statements in the CJEU 
Judgment that the  competent supervisory  authority, in making a determination  regarding  the exercise of 
corrective powers, is required to take into consideration all the circumstances surrounding the processing of 
personal data in question’. However, as previously recalled by the EDPB in paragraph 277 of Binding Decision 
3/2022, the cooperation and consistency mechanism of the GDPR is not addressed in the Schrems II judgment.  
185 Art. 63, 65 GDPR.  
186 See EDPB Guidelines on RRO paragraph 33.  
187 Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR. 
188 See EDPB Guidelines on Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR, paragraph 92. 

Adopted 

 

28 

83. 

84. 

85. 

86. 

In accordance with Article 58(2)  GDPR, the imposition  of administrative fines  pursuant to Article 83 
GDPR is only one of the corrective powers vested with the SAs. The wording ‘in addition to, or instead 
of’ in Article 58(2)(i) makes it clear that different corrective measures can be combined, as long as the 
requirements of Article 83 GDPR are met. Nevertheless, it should be borne in mind that, as highlighted 
by the WP29, ‘Administrative fines are a central element in the new enforcement regime introduced 
by the Regulation, being a powerful  part of  the enforcement toolbox  of the supervisory  authorities 
together with the other measures provided by article 58 [GDPR]’ 189.   

The EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s views that ‘the GDPR does not mandate the imposition of fines in 
any particular circumstances’ 190. The EDPB concurs that the decision to impose an administrative fine 
needs  to be taken on  a case-by-case basis,  in light of  the circumstances of each individual  case, as 
mentioned  in Recital 129  GDPR and Article 58(2)(i)  GDPR 191. It is clear from the wording  of Article 
83(2) GDPR that the factors listed thereunder are meant not only to enable the SAs to calculate the 
amount of the administrative fine in each individual  case, but also to decide ‘whether to impose an 
administrative fine’ in the first place. Thus, the EDPB fully agrees with the DE SAs’ view that the criteria 
set out  in  Article 83(2)  GDPR ‘influence the  discretion  to issue  an  administrative fine’ 192. Where a 
supervisory  authority decides to impose  an administrative fine on the basis of Article 83(2) GDPR, it 
should  also make sure that the requirements of Article 83(1) GDPR are fulfilled.  

In light of the above, the EDPB will first examine the application of the relevant criteria under Article 
83(2)  GDPR.  The  main  elements  to  be  taken  into  account  when  assessing  the  application  of 
Article 83(2) GDPR were already established in the EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, and the 
complementary EDPB Guidelines on the calculation of fines under the GDPR 193.  

In  this  regard, the EDPB notes  that in  the  Draft Decision  the IE SA  mentions  that it  has  ‘carefully 
considered the criteria set out in GDPR Article 83(2)(a)-(k)’ 194 without providing further details. In the 
context of exchanges between the EDPB Secretariat and the IE SA in the context of the analysis of the 
completeness of the file, aimed at ensuring that all relevant elements and documents (e.g.  concerning 
the IE SA’s position  on this matter) were available to the EDPB to support its decision-making 195, the 
IE SA confirmed that no further documentation on its consideration of the criteria had to be added as 
all documents relating to this issue were already included in the file transmitted to the Secretariat.  

87.  On  the  basis  of  the  available  and  relevant documents  and  taking  into  account  the  releva nt  and 
reasoned objections  raised, the EDPB proceeds with an assessment of the criteria under Article 83(2) 
GDPR as applicable to the case at hand. As further described below, the overall analysis of the relevant 
factors listed in Article 83(2) GDPR demonstrates the need to impose  an administrative fine for the 
identified infringement of Article 46(1) GDPR.  

                                                             
189 Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on the application and setting of administrative fines for the purposes 
of the Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 3 October 2017 (WP 253), endorsed by the EDPB on 25 May 2018, 
hereinafter ‘EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines’. 
190 Meta IE Art. 65 submissions, paragraph 14.3. Meta IE also recalls Recital 129 GDPR and Art. 58(2)(i) GDPR.  
191 See e.g. Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 441; Binding Decision 4/2022, paragraph 440; Binding Decision 
5/2022, paragraph 305. See also Guidelines on Administrative Fines, p. 7.    
192 DE SA Objection, p. 7, Section II, b. 
193 Binding Decision 2/2022, paragraph 196. 
194 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.47. 
195  Pursuant to Art. 11(2) of the  EDPB Rules of Procedure   And as also mentioned in paragraph 20 of the 
Guidelines on Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

29 

88.  Article 83(2) GDPR ‘provides  a list  of  criteria the supervisory  authorities are expected to use  in the 
assessment both of whether a fine should be imposed and of the amount of the fine’ 196: as explained 
in the EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, this does not consist in ‘a repeated assessment of the 
same criteria, but an assessment that takes into account all the circumstances of each individual  case’, 
and  the ‘conclusions  reached in  the first  stage of  the  assessment  may be  used  in  the  second  part 
concerning  the  amount  of  the  fine,  thereby  avoiding  the  need  to  assess  using  the  same  criteria 
twice’ 197. 

On the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement (Article 83(2)(a) GDPR)  

89.  Pursuant  to  Article  83(2)(a)  GDPR,  when  assessing  the  nature,  gravity  and  duration  of  the 
infringement,  the  SA  shall  give  due  regard  to  the  nature,  scope  or  purpose  of  the  processing 
concerned, as well as the number of data subjects affected and the level of damage they suffered.  

90.  With regard to  the nature and gravity of the infringement, Meta IE argues that account has to be 
taken of the ‘highly unusual  circumstances of the alleged infringement of Article 46(1) GDPR’  and in 
particular that ‘Meta Ireland has always made the Meta Ireland Data Transfers in good faith’ 198. The 
EDPB considers that this argument relates to Article 83(2)(b) GDPR rather than to Article 83(2)(a) GDPR 
and will examine it below.  

91. 

In  its  Draft  Decision,  when  assessing  the  imposition  of  corrective  measures  for  the  established 
infringement of Article 46(1) GDPR, the IE SA underlines  that ‘the deficiencies in US law identified by 
the CJEU have not been addressed  by the SCCs  or supplemental measures, that a  derogation under 
GDPR Article 49(1) is not available to Meta Ireland, and that the Data Transfers have been found to 
give rise to a breach of the essence of one or more fundamental rights’ 199. In this  regard, the EDPB 
highlights that an infringement giving rise to a breach of the essence of a fundamental right shall be 
considered as a grave one. In addition, the EDPB agrees with the arguments put forward by the AT SA, 
DE  SAs,  ES  SA  and  FR  SA,  which  consider  that  the  infringement  is  particularly  serious 200.  More 
specifically, according to the ES SA, the FB International Transfers ‘are not occasional or sporadic’ but 
‘systematic, mass, repetitive and continuous in nature’ 201. Likewise, the AT SA considers that Meta IE 
has been  substantially  and continuously  violating data subject  rights for several years 202. In the FR 
SA’s view, the breach is particularly serious in terms of the data subjects’ privacy 203. The DE SAs refer 
to the large number of data subjects concerned, the long period of the infringement and the scope of 
the processing 204.  

92.  Regarding the nature, scope and purpose of the processing concerned, the EDPB takes note of Meta 
IE’s description  of the  processing  as being ‘simply  the  transfer of  Meta Ireland User  Data by Meta 
Ireland to its processor, MPI, in the US for the purpose  of supporting Meta Ireland in its provision  of 

                                                             
196 Guidelines on Administrative Fines, p. 9.  
197 Guidelines on Administrative Fines, p. 9. See also the analysis on p. 14 concerning the factor described in 
Art. 83(2)(f) GDPR.   
198 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.2. 
199 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.41.  
200 DE SAs Objection, p. 9 ‘very serious’ and 12 ‘should be classified in the high level of seriousness’; ES SA 
Objection p. 2; FR SA Objection, p.2, paragraph 6; AT SA Objection, p.2, Section B. 
201 ES SA Objection p. 2. 
202 AT SA Objection, p.3.  
203 FR SA Objection, p. 2, paragraph 6. 
204 DE SAs Objection, p. 9. 

Adopted 

 

30 

the Facebook Service to Meta Ireland Users’ 205. Specifically concerning the scope, Meta IE considers 
that the scale of the processing is not a relevant factor to assess whether to impose an administrative 
fine 206. Notwithstanding, the EDPB finds  that Article 83(2)(a) GDPR entails that the scope  or scale of 
the processing  is  a relevant factor when  deciding whether to impose  an administrative fine. More 
particularly, the EDPB recalls that the processing  at stake has  a particularly large scope  and agrees 
with  the  DE  SAs’  view  that  the  ‘context  of  data  processing  extents  to  huge  amounts  of  social 
interactions generated by these data subjects each and every day for the past and ongoing ’ 207. This is 
confirmed by the IE SA itself, which describes the transfers as ‘systematic, bulk, repetitive and ongoing’ 
throughout Section 8 of the Draft Decision 208.  

93.  As to the number of data subjects affected, the EDPB considers the DE SAs’ observation that Meta IE 
has  ‘309  million  daily  active  users  in  Europe’ 209  and  that  therefore  ‘a  large  share  of  the  entire 
population  of  the  European  Union  is  directly  affected  by  the  non-compliance’  of  Meta  IE’ 210  is 
particularly relevant. The same is supported by the FR and AT SAs, which also correctly observe that a 
‘particularly massive volume of data’ is at stake ‘since the Facebook service has millions of users in the 
European Union’ 211 and that ‘Meta is the provider of the biggest global social media network with an 
enormous number of users within the European Union and thus affected persons’ 212.  

94.  Meta IE does  not dispute  the fact that ‘a large number of data subjects have been involved’ as the 
Facebook Service is used by a very high number of users 213. In its submissions  on the Preliminary Draft 
Decision, Meta IE itself explains that ‘Since its introduction in 2004, the Facebook Service has become 
an extremely popular and well-known online global communication and content sharing service, used 
by approximately 2.85 billion users globally every month to share and access information and connect 
with others around the world. This includes more than 255 million individual users in the EU / EEA’ 214. 
However, according to Meta IE, ‘the fact that personal data of a large number of data subjects have 
been involved  in the Meta Ireland Data Transfers does not equate to a large number of data subjects 
being “affected” for the purpose of Article 83(1)(a) GDPR’ 215. It further argues that ‘There was always 
only  an  extremely  limited  practical  risk  of  alleged  interference  with  Meta  Ireland  Users’  data 
protection and  redress rights as  a result of  the Meta Ireland Data Transfer, and  any such  risk  only 
involved an extremely limited number of Meta Ireland Users’ 216.  

                                                             
205 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.5. 
206 In Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph Annex 2, paragraph 2.9, Meta IE argues that ’both the SCCs and 
Chapter V of the GDPR are designed to support large scale and systemic transfers. Accordingly, the mere fact 
that  large scale transfers are taking place cannot in  itself be  a  factor leading to  the  imposition of  an 
administrative fine.’ 
207 DE SAs Objection, p. 9. 
208 Draft Decision, paragraphs 8.45, 8.47, 8.49, 8.50, 8.57, 8.81, 8.82, 8.83, 8.85, 8.87, 8.89, 8.90. 
209 DE SA Objection, p. 9 - the DE SA refers to Meta IE’s annual report for the year 2021 (form 10-k), p.56. 
210 DE SAs Objection, p. 9. 
211 FR SA Objection paragraph 7. 
212 AT SA Objection, p. 2 Section B 
213 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.7 
214 Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraph 1.2.  
215 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.7, annex 2 paragraphs 2.22(A)(i), 2.29(A), and 2.41(A)(i). 
216 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.8. In the same paragraph, Meta IE also specifies that ‘based on 
the then most recent available data, all US Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (‘FISA’) requests across 
all accounts globally across all of the Facebook Service, Messenger, Instagram and WhatsApp would involve only 
approximately 0.00094% of all activated accounts.’ 

Adopted 

 

31 

95. 

The EDPB cannot agree with Meta IE’s arguments. As explained in the EDPB Guidelines on calculation 
of  fines,  the  number  of  data  subjects  affected  should  mean  ‘concretely  but  also  potentially 
affected’ 217. In other words, ‘affected’ data subjects are not only data subjects whose accounts have 
been subject  to access requests, but also data subjects whose  accounts  could have been subject to 
access  requests 218.  The  EDPB recalls  that, at  the  time  of  this  dispute  resolution  procedure,  the 
infringement is still ongoing, which means that the personal data of Facebook users is transferred to 
and processed in the US without appropriate safeguards, as required by Article 46(1) GDPR.  

96. 

Therefore, the EDPB concludes that a very high number of  data subjects is affected and this already 
high number can keep increasing until the infringement is effectively brought to an end.  

97.  Regarding the duration of the infringement, the DE SAs and AT SA stress that it has been ongoing for 
several years, which they see as an aggravating factor 219. According to the AT SA, the duration of the 
infringement resulted in  data subjects’ rights being  ‘substantially and continuously  violated’ 220. The 
DE SAs point out that ‘the duration of the infringement for the data subjects extents to even before 
GDPR with the previous regimen with the same legal obligations for controllers’ 221. The DE SAs further 
highlight that ‘the data processing of the undertaking is under scrutiny of supervisory authorities since 
about ten years’ 222. Meta IE responds to this by  stressing that the inquiry  only concerns  the period 
since the GDPR became applicable 223.  

98. 

The EDPB takes note of the IE SA’s explanation that the purpose of the Draft Decision is  ‘to consider 
whether Meta Ireland is  acting [...] compatibly with  GDPR Article 46(1), in  making transfers [...] of 
personal  data relating [...] to  Meta US  pursuant  to standard contractual clauses  [...], following  the 
judgment of  the Court  of Justice  of the European Union  (“the CJEU”), delivered  on 16 July  2020, in 
Case  C-311/18  Data Protection Commissioner  v  Facebook  Ireland Ltd and Maximillian Schrems’ 224. 
The  EDPB  also  notes  that  no  CSA  raised  objections  concerning  the  temporal  scope  of  the  Draft 

                                                             
217 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 54, point b) iv, p. 17.  
218 The FR SA states in its objection: ‘Insofar as the data at stake come from accounts of the social network 
Facebook, which may contain a lot of information about the private life of users, there is a significant risk of 
infringement of the privacy of these individuals in case these data are actually transferred to the intelligence 
services in response to a request’ (FR SA Objection p. 2). Meta argues that by way of this sentence the FR SA 
acknowledges ‘that the large number of Meta Ireland Users involved does not equate to the number of Meta 
Ireland Users whose personal data may actually have been at risk of access by the USG, let alone at risk of 
suffering damage’ (Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 2.29 (A)). The EDPB highlights the interpretation of 
the  concept of ‘number of  data subjects affected’ as encompassing the data subjects ‘concretely but also 
potentially affected’ (EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 54). While the FR SA referred in its 
objection to  the  further adverse consequences for those  data subjects whose personal data is actually 
transferred to US intelligence services, on top of the data protection breach affecting all the personal data 
transferred, this should not be seen as limiting the number of data subjects affected as suggested by Meta IE. In 
this regard, Meta’s assurance that, for the time being, the data protection and redress rights of only ‘a relatively 
limited number of users globally’ have been put at risk (Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 2.29(A)), does 
not seem substantiated considering that, according to Meta IE, the transfers were carried out for ‘the purpose 
of supporting Meta Ireland in its provision of the Facebook Service to Meta Ireland Users’ (Meta IE Art. 65 
Submissions, paragraph 18.5.) without any limitations being referred to and, in any event, it does not mean that 
such risk cannot materialise again and that the infringement will not affect even more users. 
219 DE SAs Objection, p.9, AT SA Objection p. 3, Section C.2.1 
220 AT SAs Objection, p.5, Section C.2. 
221 DE SAs Objection, p. 9. 
222 DE SAs Objection, p. 9. 
223 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.3 and Annex 2 p. 61 2.41(A)(ii). 
224 Draft Decision, paragraph 1.3(1). 

Adopted 

 

32 

Decision. Therefore, the starting point of the infringement at stake should be determined on the basis 
of the description made in the Draft Decision only, i.e. from 16 July 2020 (date of the adoption of the 
Schrems II judgment). The EDPB considers  that this duration of infringement is significant and has to 
be taken into account when deciding whether an administrative fine should be imposed.   

99.  As a conclusion, the EDPB considers that, taking into account the nature and scope of the processing, 
as  well as  the very  high  number  of  data subjects  affected, Meta IE committed an infringement  of 
significant nature, gravity and duration.  Therefore, this criterion has to be taken into  account when 
deciding whether an administrative fine should be imposed.  

On the intentional or negligent character of the infringement (Article 83(2)(b) GDPR) 

100.  Article  83(2)  GDPR  mentions,  among  the  factors  to  be  taken  into  account  when  deciding  the 
imposition  and  amount  of  an  administrative  fine,  ‘the  intentional  or  negligent  character of  the 
infringement’. Recital 148 GDPR also requires that due regard be given to the ‘intentional character 
of the infringement’. 

101.  Meta IE agrees with the IE SA’s conclusion  that the FB International Transfers were made by Meta IE 
in good faith because it has implemented supplemental measures in addition to the 2021 SCCs, and 
has believed  that, in the alternative, was entitled to rely on Article 49 GDPR  225.Meta IE argues that 
the IE SA’s finding that Meta IE made the FB International transfers in good faith is a factual finding on 
the basis of which the EDPB must make its decision  226 and which is not the subject of any objection by 
the CSAs 227.  

102.  The EDPB cannot agree with Meta IE’s arguments. The IE SA found  that Meta IE has relied on SCCs 
and, alternatively on the derogations under Article 49 GDPR and concluded that Meta IE acted ‘in good 
faith’. The  EDPB notes  that this  conclusion  is,  contrary to what Meta IE argues, the  subject of  the 
objections and hence of the dispute. As previously explained in Section 4.2 of this Binding Decision, all 
the objections raised by CSAs on the matter of the imposition of an administrative fine express views 
on the intentionality of the infringement and disagree with the assessment that Meta IE acted in good 
faith  when  carrying  out  the  FB  International  Transfers.  More  specifically,  the  FR  SA  argued  the 
infringement had an ‘intentional character’ as it was ‘committed deliberately by the company’  228. The 
ES SA also mentions  that Meta IE ‘has been in  breach of the GDPR despite its knowledge [since the 
Schrems II judgment]’ that the FB International Transfers would trigger a breach of the GDPR  229.  The 
DE SAs  also argue that Meta IE acted intentionally or at least  - as argued by the AT SA - with dolus 
eventualis 230.  These statements included in the objections amount to disagreements with the finding 
that Meta IE acted in good faith in carrying out the FB International Transfers.   

103.  As already clarified in the EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, ‘in general, intent includes both 
knowledge  and wilfulness  in  relation to the  characteristics of  an  offence, whereas “unintentional” 
means  that there  was  no  intention  to  cause  the  infringement  although  the  controller/processor 

                                                             
225 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraphs 8.10 - 8.12, paragraphs 16.1 - 16.5 and paragraph 18.10. 
226 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 16.1. 
227 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 8.10. The IE SA in its Composite Response also argues that this finding 
was not challenged by the CSAs.  
228 FR SA Objection, paragraphs 7 and 10, p. 2-3. 
229 ES SA Objection, p.3.  
230 AT SAs Objection, p. 4, Section C.2.1, DE SAs Objection, footnote 18 and p. 9.  

Adopted 

 

33 

breached the duty  of care which is  required in the law’ 231. In other words, the EDPB Guidelines on 
calculation  of  fines  confirm  that  there  are  two  cumulative  elements  on  the  basis  of  which  an 
infringement can be considered intentional: the knowledge of the breach and the wilfulness in relation 
to such act 232. On the other hand, an infringement is ‘unintentional’ when there was a breach of the 
duty of care, without having intentionally caused the infringement 233. The EDPB also recalls that the 
intentional  or negligent character of the  infringement ‘should  be  assessed  taking into account the 
objective  elements  of  conduct  gathered from  the  facts  of  the  case’  and  that  ‘depending  on  the 
circumstances  of  the  case,  the  supervisory  authority  may  also  attach  weight  to  the  degree  of 
negligence’ 234. 

104.  The EDPB notes  and agrees with the DE SAs’ observation  that Meta IE has been  ‘ under scrutiny  of 
supervisory  authorities since about ten years’ 235: the two landmark judgments issued  by the CJEU in 
2015 and in 2020 were also issued in cases concerning this same company. Indeed, as recalled by the 
IE SA in the Draft Decision, the original complaint against Meta IE which contended that the transfer 
of personal data by Meta IE to Meta Platforms, Inc., in reliance on the ‘Safe Harbor’ adequacy decision, 
was unlawful 236 and which led to judicial proceedings in Ireland and then to the preliminary ruling of 
the  CJEU  in  2015  in  the  case  C-362/14,  Schrems  v  Data  Protection  Commissioner  (‘Schrems I 
judgment’) 237, was filed by Schrems with the IE SA on 25 June 2013 238. The Schrems II Judgment, as 
previously mentioned, was handed down by the CJEU on 16 July 2020. Following the IE SA Preliminary 
Draft Decision of  28 August 2020 and the opening of inquiry  IN 20-8-1, Meta IE commenced judicial 
proceedings against the IE SA 239.  

105.  In addition, the EDPB takes note of Section 7 of the Draft Decision, where the IE SA first sets out the 
framework of its assessment and then examines in detail the lawfulness of the transfers, by following 
the terms of Article 46(1) GDPR as reflected by the Schrems II Judgment. The EDPB also takes note of 
the IE SA’s assessment in Section 8 of the Draft Decision and the conclusion  that it is ‘ not open to Meta 
Ireland to rely  on  the  derogations at Article 49(1)  (or any  of  them)  to justify  the syst ematic, bulk, 
repetitive and ongoing transfers of its users’ data from the EU to the US’.  

                                                             
231 EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, p. 11; EDPB Guidelines on Calculation of fines, paragraph 56. 
232 EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, p. 11; EDPB Guidelines on Calculation of fines, paragraph 56. 
233 EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, p. 11; EDPB Guidelines on Calculation of fines, paragraph 56. 
234 EDPB Guidelines on Calculation of fines, paragraph 57. 
235 DE SAs Objection, p. 9. The EDPB recalls that in both Schrems I and II judgments, the CJEU concluded that the 
US did not ensure an adequate level of protection and consequently invalided the European Commissions’ Safe 
Harbour and Privacy Shield Decisions. In Schrems II, the CJEU  also considered the validity of standard data 
protection clauses in a Commission decision adopted pursuant to Art. 46(2)(c) GDPR and concluded that it was 
not affected. 
236 Draft Decision, paragraph 2.6. 
237  Judgement  of  the  Court of 6  October 2015, Case C-362/14, Schrems v  Data Protection Commissioner, 
ECLI:EU:C:2015:650 
238 Draft Decision, paragraph 2.6. 
239 Draft Decision, paragraph 2.44 - Meta IE commenced the judicial review against the IE SA on 10 September 
2020. In paragraphs 1.5 and 1.6 of the Meta IE PDD Submissions, Meta IE explains the following: ‘Following the 
CJEU Judgment, this own-volition inquiry IN-20-8-1 was commenced by the DPC under section 110 of the Data 
Protection Act 2018 (‘DPA 2018’) on 28 August 2020 (‘Inquiry’), by way of a Preliminary Draft Decision (‘PDD’) 
and letter to FIL dated 28 August 2020. FIL then commenced judicial review proceedings against the DPC (‘FIL 
JR’). Following the judgment of Judge Barniville in the FIL JR on 14 May 2021 (‘FIL JR Judgment’), the DPC wrote 
to FIL on 21 May 2021 informing it that it must make submissions in response to the PDD no later than 2 July 
2021.’ 

Adopted 

 

34 

106.  The EDPB recalls the IE SA’s conclusion  that the 2021 SCCs  Meta IE relied upon  to carry out  the FB 
International Transfers 240 could  not  remedy the inadequate protection afforded  by  US law 241. The 
EDPB also notes that the IE SA  examined in detail the question  of whether Meta IE has put in  place 
supplementary measures that could address the insufficiencies  of the protection provided by US Law 
and its conclusion  that this is not the case 242.  

107.  As  explained by  the EDPB in  its Recommendations  01/2020 on  measures that supplement  transfer 
tools  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  EU  level  of  protection  of  personal  data  (hereinafter  ‘EDPB 
Recommendations on Supplementary Measures’) 243, when assessing third countries and identifying 
appropriate supplementary measures, controllers should  assess if there is anything in the law and/or 
practices  in  force  of  the  third  country  that may  impinge  on  the  effectiveness  of  the  appropriate 
safeguards  of  the  transfer  tools  that they  are  relying  on 244. In  this  regard, the  EDPB notes  that, 
according to  Meta IE’s assessment,  ‘the  level  of  protection  required  by  EU  law  is  provided  for  by 
relevant US law and practice’ and that Meta IE implemented supplementary measures in addition to 
the 2021 SCCS  in order to ‘further ensure that an adequate level of protection continues to apply to 
User Data transferred from FIL to FB, Inc’ 245. In other words, Meta IE has implemented supplementary 
measures on the basis of an assessment which concluded that there was no need for such measures, 
since, in Meta IE’s view, the relevant US law and practice were already providing a level of protection 
equivalent to the one provided under EU law 246.  

108.  Moreover, the EDPB highlights the IE SA’s concern that Meta IE’s submissions  ‘seem to simply ignore 
the  ruling  of  the  CJEU’ 247  and  ‘that Meta Ireland is  seeking  to  promote  a lower  standard  for  the 
objective of SCCs  and supplemental measures than is permitted by the Judgment and the GDPR’ 248. 
More specifically, the IE SA notes that Meta IE ‘seems to identify its own test for determining suitability 
of  supplemental  measures  by  lowering  the  standard  to  include  measures  that  can  “address”  or 
“mitigate” any “relevant remaining” inadequacies in the protections offered  by US law and practice 
and the SCCs’ 249, and concludes  in the Draft Decision that ‘Meta Ireland does not have in place any 
supplemental  measures  which  would  compensate  for  the  inadequate  protection  provided  by  US 
law’ 250.   

                                                             
240 Meta IE incorporated the 2021 SCCs into its agreement with Meta US on 31 August 2021. 
241 Draft Decision, paragraphs 7.154 - 7.172. The IE SA had concluded in the Draft Decision that, in accordance 
with the Schrems II Judgment, US law does not provide a level of protection that is essentially equivalent to that 
provided by EU law. Draft Decision, paragraphs 7.173 and 7.202(1). 
242 Draft Decision, paragraphs 7.174 - 7.202. 
243 EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with the 
EU  level  of  protection  of  personal  data,  Version  2.0,  Adopted  on  18  June  2021  (hereinafter,  ‘EDPB 
Recommendations on Supplementary Measures’). 
244 Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with the EU 
level of protection of personal data, Version 2.0, Adopted on 18 June 2021, paragraph 30. 
245 Meta IE Record of Safeguards, including supplementary measures of 31 August 2021, p.1; See also Meta IE 
TIA, paragraph 1.3 - ‘FIL’s conclusion as a result of this assessment is that the level of protection afforded by 
relevant US law and practice to data subjects whose personal data is transferred by FIL to FB, Inc. i n the US 
pursuant to the 2021 SCCs is essentially equivalent to that guaranteed by Relevant EU Law as reflected by the 
EU Standard’. 
246 Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraph 8.5. 
247 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.150. 
248 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.28. 
249 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.25. 
250 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.201(3) 

Adopted 

 

35 

109.  Considering  the detailed assessment  of the US legal system by the CJEU in the Schrems II judgment, 
the  series  of  steps  to  follow,  sources  of  information  and  examples  of  supplementary  measures 
provided in the EDPB Recommendations on Supplementary Measures’, as well as the IE SA’s findings 
in the Preliminary Draft Decision 251 and Revised Preliminary Draft Decision 252 which were shared with 
Meta IE prior to the Draft Decision, the EDPB takes the view that Meta IE could not have been unaware 
of the fact that the FB International Transfers could be considered in violation of Article 46(1) GDPR.   

110.  In light of the above, the EDPB concludes that there are sufficient indications that Meta IE committed 

the infringement of Article 46(1) GDPR knowingly. 

111.  Additionally, with respect to the finding of the IE SA that reliance on Article 49 GDPR was not open to 
Meta IE for the purpose  of carrying out the FB International Transfers, the EDPB is of the view that at 
the very least Meta IE could  not have been unaware of the guidance of the EDPB and of the findings 
of the CJEU that the derogations cannot be relied upon for systematic and massive transfers and have 
to be strictly construed 253.  

112.  As regards the ‘wilfulness’ component of intent, the EDPB recalls that the CJEU has established a high 
threshold  in  order to consider  an  act intentional 254. The EDPB has  previously  recalled that even in 
criminal proceedings, the CJEU has  acknowledged the existence of ‘serious  negligence’, rather than 
‘intentionality’ when ‘the person responsible  commits a patent breach of the duty of care which he 
should have and could have complied with in view of his attributes, knowledge, abilities and individual 
situation’ 255. Although  a company  for  which  the processing  of  personal  data is  at the  core  of  its 
business  activities is expected to have sufficient measures in place for the safeguard of personal data 
and for the thorough understanding of its duties in this regard, this does not per se  demonstrate the 
wilfulness  of an infringement 256. In this regard, the EDPB notes that Meta IE has taken steps in order 
to achieve compliance with Chapter V of the GDPR following the Schrems II judgment 257, but these 

                                                             
251 Preliminary Draft Decision, Section 7. 
252 Revised Preliminary Draft Decision, Section 7. 
253 In its Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, p.4, the EDPB highlights 
that the, the derogations must be interpreted restrictively so that the exception does not become the rule. The 
EDPB also recalls  that Recital 111 GDPR refers ‘occasional’ and Art.  49(1) GDPR to  ‘not  repetitive’ in the 
‘compelling legitimate interests’ derogation. The EDPB explains that these terms indicate that such transfers 
may happen more than once, but not regularly, and would occur outside the regular course of actions, for 
example, under random, unknown circumstances and within arbitrary time intervals. More specifically, a data 
transfer that occurs regularly within a stable relationship between the data exporter and a certain data importer 
can basically be deemed as systematic and repeated and can therefore not be considered occasional or not-
repetitive. See also Draft Decision, paragraphs 8.11 - 8.16, 8.57, 8.83, 8.87 - 8.90. As the IE SA’s recalls, the CJEU 
has already established that, contrary to what Meta IE seems to be arguing, recitals explain the content of legal 
provisions and constitute important elements for the purposes of interpretation (Draft Decision, paragraphs 
8.62-8.70). 
254 Even in criminal proceedings, the CJEU has acknowledged the existence of ‘serious negligence’ rather than 
‘intentionality’ when ‘the person responsible commits a patent breach of the duty of care which he should have 
and could have complied with in view of his attributes, knowledge, abilities, and individual situation’. Judgment 
of the Court of Justice of 3 June 2008, The Queen, on the application of International Association of Independent 
Tanker Owners (Intertanko) and Others v Secretary of State  for Transport, C-308/06, ECLI:EU:C:2008:312), 
paragraph 77. 
255 See Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 455 referring to Judgement of the Court of Justice of 3 June 2008, 
The Queen, on the application of International Association of Independent Tanker Owners (Intertanko) and 
Others v Secretary of State for Transport, C-308/06, ECLI:EU:C:2008:312), paragraph 77. 
256 See Binding Decision 2/2022, paragraph 204.  
257 See Meta IE PDD Submissions, Part E, p. 52 to 86. 

Adopted 

 

36 

steps were not sufficient  to achieve compliance as established by  the Draft Decision. Consequently, 
the EDPB takes the view that, on the basis  of the objective elements in the case file, ‘wilfulness’ on 
the side of Meta IE is not fully demonstrated. 

113.  Nevertheless, the EDPB stresses  that Meta IE’s position  that the  relevant US law and practice were 
already providing a level of  protection equivalent to the one provided  under  EU law in  spite of the 
Schrems  II judgment 258, the lower  standard applied  by  Meta IE when  implementing the  SCCs  and 
supplementary measures, as well as the subsequent  failure to implement supplementary measures 
that were aimed to compensate (and could compensate) for the inadequate protection provided by 
US  law  (rather  than  address  or  mitigate ‘any  relevant  remaining  inadequacies  in  the  protection 
afforded by US law and practice’ 259, as argued by Meta IE 260), indicate a very high degree of negligence 
on the side of Meta IE. As the IE SA correctly recalls, ‘the terms “mitigate” and “address” cannot be 
found  in either the Judgment or the GDPR’ 261. In addition, the EDPB notes that Meta IE contests the 
IE  SA’s  interpretation  of  the  Schrems  II  judgment  and  of  the  test  for  determining  suitability  of 
supplementary measures not only  in its submissions  on the Preliminary Draft Decision, but also in its 
submissions  on the Revised Preliminary Draft Decision 262. Therefore, it appears that, by not applying 
the  correct  test  for  determining  the  suitability  of  supplementary  measures  in  spite  of  the  clear 
requirement that the appropriate safeguards to be taken by the controller must ‘compensate for’ the 
lack of data protection in the third country 263, Meta IE breached its duty  of care and acted at least 
with the highest degree of negligence.  

114.  This is  the case also in light of the arguments brought by the AT SA and DE SAs 264 that Meta IE has 
acted at least with  conditional  intent  (dolus  eventualis)  ‘since  it  must  have  seriously  considered  a 
violation of Chapter V GDPR when carrying out data transfers’ 265. The EDPB has previously  explained 
that ‘Depending on the circumstances of the case, the supervisory  authority may also attach weight 
to the degree of negligence’ 266.   

115.  In light of the above, the EDPB takes the view that Meta IE committed the infringement at least with 
the highest degree of  negligence and this  has  to be taken into  account when deciding  whether an 
administrative fine should  be imposed.  

On  the  degree of  responsibility  of  the  controller taking  into  account technical  and  organisational 
measures implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25 and 32 (Article 83(2)(d) GDPR) 

116.  The EDPB recalls that, pursuant to Article 83(2)(d) GDPR, the degree of responsibility of the controller 
or processor  will have to be assessed,  taking into account measures implemented by  them to meet 
the requirements  of  data protection by  design  and  by  default (Article 25 GDPR) and of  security  of 
processing  (Article 32 GDPR). More specifically, the EDPB has explained  that ‘the question  that the 
                                                             
258 Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraph 8.5. 
259 Meta IE PDD Submissions, Part C, paragraph 4.3 
260 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.175 (‘the supplemental measures introduced must not merely “mitigate” the 
deficiencies in US law, as Meta Ireland contends,127 but must ensure that data subjects receive essentially 
equivalent protection to EU law’), referring to Meta IE’s Response to the PDD, Part C, Paragraph 3.12.   
261 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.27. 
262 See Draft Decision, paragraphs 7.24 and 7.25; Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraphs 3.11 and 3.12; Meta IE 
RPDD Submissions, paragraphs 4.1 to 4.4. 
263 Recital 108 GDPR, Schrems II judgment, paragraph 95. 
264 DE SAs Objection, p. 9, footnote 18 
265 AT SA Objection, p. 4. 
266 EDPB Guidelines on Calculation of fines, paragraph 57. 

Adopted 

 

37 

supervisory authority must then answer is to what extent the controller “did what it could be expected 
to do” given  the nature, the purposes  or the size of the processing, seen  in light of  the obligations 
imposed  on them by  the Regulation’ 267. In addition, the residual risk for the freedoms and rights of 
the data subjects, the impairment caused to the data subjects  and the damage persisting a fter the 
adoption  of  the  measures  by  the  controller  as  well  as  the  degree of  robustness  of  the  measures 
adopted pursuant to Articles 25 and 32 GDPR must be assessed 268. 

117.  The EDPB has  also explained  that, given the increased level  of accountability under  the  GDPR, it is 
likely that this factor will be considered either an aggravating or a neutral one 269. Only in exceptional 
circumstances, where the controller or processor has gone above and beyond the obligations imposed 
upon them, will this be considered a mitigating factor 270.  

118.  Meta IE argues that ‘the issue  regarding EU-US data transfers is fundamentally one of a “conflict of 
laws”  between  the  EU  and  the  US 271’  and  that  it  has  conducted  all  appropriate  assessments, 
maintained all documentation and taken all steps available to it as soon as possible,  such as entering 
into the 2021 SCCs  272.  

119.  The EDPB considers  that these arguments have no bearing on the degree of responsibility  of Meta IE 

in the present case.  

120.  It is clear from Article 25(1) GDPR that the controller is under an obligation, both at the time of the 
determination of  the  means  for  processing  and  at the  time of  the  processing  itself,  to implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures designed to implement data-protection principles 
in an effective manner and to integrate the necessary safeguards into the processing in order to meet 
the requirements of the GDPR and protect the rights of data subjects. In addition, Article 32(1) GDPR 
lays down an obligation for the controller, by taking into account a number of factors, to implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk 
of varying likelihood  and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons.  Article 32(2) GDPR 
further specifies that, in assessing the level of security, account shall be taken in particular of the risks 
that are  presented  by  processing,  in  particular from  [...] unauthorised  disclosure  of,  or  access  to 
personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.  

121.  In this regard, the EDPB recalls that the IE SA carries out a detailed assessment  of whether Meta IE 
implemented supplementary measures that could address the inadequate protection provided by US 
law 273.  More  specifically,  the  IE  SA  analyses  the  organisational,  technical  and  legal  measures 
implemented by Meta IE and concludes that these measures cannot, ‘whether viewed in isolation, or 
in tandem with the 2021 SCCs and the full suite of measures outlined in the ROS’, compensate for the 
deficiencies identified in US law and cannot provide essentially equivalent protection to that available 
under EU law 274.  

                                                             
267 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 78, referring to EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, 
p. 12. 
268 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 79.  
269 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 82. 
270 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 82. 
271 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.13. 
272 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.14. 
273  Draft  Decision,  paragraphs  7.174-7.202.  The  IE  SA  analyses  Meta  IE’s  Record  of  Safeguards  and 
Supplementary Measures, as well as the Transfer Impact Assessment Summary 
274 Draft Decision, paragraphs 7.192 - 7.194. 

Adopted 

 

38 

122.  This results in a high residual risk for the rights and freedoms of the data subjects concerned, because, 
as  highlighted  by  the  IE SA,  data subjects  are still  not  protected against  702  FISA  DOWNSTREAM 
(PRISM) requests and Meta US would still be required to disclose its users’ personal data, if requested 
by the US Government 275. 

123.  It is relevant also to recall that the EDPB Recommendations 1/2020 clarified that controllers may have 
to apply  some or  all of  the measures  described therein even  irrespective of the level  of protection 
provided  for by the laws applicable to the data importer because they need to comply  with Articles 
25 and 32 GDPR in the concrete circumstances of the transfers 276.  

124.  Against  this  background,  the  EDPB recalls  the  DE  SAs  view  that, considering  the  amount  of  data 
processed,  ‘the  responsibility  may  have  been  heightened  above  average’ 277. The  EDPB also  finds 
particularly  relevant  the  FR  SA’s  observation  that  the  Facebook  social  network  occupies  an 
‘inescapable  place  in  France’ since  it  ‘dominates  by  far  the  social  media  market’ and,  due  to  its 
dominant position, generates important ‘network effects’ 278. The EDPB considers that this is the case 
not only  in France, but in  the EEA in general. In addition, the Facebook service is provided to many 
users who do not necessarily have legal or technical knowledge 279. These users rely on the information 
published  by  Meta IE and therefore would  reasonably  expect that their personal  data is  protected 
when it is transferred to the US 280. Finally, the EDPB concurs with the FR SA’s view that ‘in parallel 
with  its  traditional function  of  maintaining  and  developing  interpersonal  relationships,  this  social 
network also  occupies an increasingly larger role in areas as diverse as access to information, public 
debate or even civil security’ 281.  

125.  In light of the above considerations, the EDPB takes the view that there are enough elements in the 
analysis of this factor which confirm Meta IE’s high degree of responsibility. Therefore, this factor has 
be taken into account when deciding whether to impose an administrative fine.  

Any relevant previous infringements by the controller (Article 83(2)(e) GDPR) 

126.  The EDPB recalls that, according to Article 83(2)(e) GDPR and Recital 148 GDPR, any relevant previous 
infringements  committed  by  the  controller  or  processor  are  to  given  due  regard when  deciding 
whether to impose an administrative fine  and deciding on  the amount of the administrative fine.  In 
addition,  the  absence  of  any  previous  infringements  cannot be  considered  a  mitigating factor, as 
compliance with the GDPR is the norm and if there are no previous infringements, this factor can be 
regarded as neutral 282. The EDPB has already explained that prior infringements are relevant as they 
might provide  an  indication  about the controller’s general attitude towards  the observance of  the 

                                                             
275 Draft Decision, paragraphs 7.192 - 7.194. 
276 EDPB Recommendations on Supplementary Measures, paragraph 83.  
277 DE SAs Objection, p. 10. 
278 FR SA Objection, paragraph 12. 
279 As explained in paragraph 34 of the Expert report of Professor Goldfarb presented by Meta IE as part of its 
Submissions on the  PDD, the  Facebook Service benefits at least three key  groups: SMEs, non -profits, and 
individuals. 
280 See for example the information provided to the Facebook users in March 2021, as referred to by Meta IE in 
the Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraph 6.6.  
281 FR SA Objection, paragraph 13. 
282 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 94. 

Adopted 

 

39 

GDPR 283 and that recent infringements under  the GDPR have more significance than infringements 
that have taken place long time ago 284.  

127.  In this  regard, the EDPB notes  the AT SA’s  remark that ‘it is  not  the first  case where the DPC  has 
established a violation of the GDPR by Meta Ireland’ 285. The AT SA Objection does not make reference 
to specific cases where the IE SA has established a violation of the GDPR by Meta IE, but it is possible 
to recall in particular the IE SA’s decisions  286 adopted following EDPB Binding Decisions 2/2022 of 28 
July 2022 and 3/2022 and 4/2022 of 5 December 2022 where the IE SA found that Meta IE breached 
the GDPR 287.  The EDPB recalls that at the time when the Draft Decision was circulated to the CSAs, 
the IE SA’s final  decision  in  these cases had  not yet been  adopted. Therefore, nothing arises  to be 
taken into account here when deciding whether an administrative fine should be imposed on Meta IE. 

On the categories of personal data affected by the infringement (Article 83(2)(g) GDPR) 

128.  Concerning the requirement to take account of the categories of personal data affected under Article 
83(2)(g) GDPR, the EDPB recalls that the GDPR clearly highlights the types of data that deserve special 
protection and therefore a stricter response in terms of fines 288. The EDPB has already explained that 
categories of personal data deserving a stricter response in terms of fines include at the very least, the 
types  of data covered by  Articles 9 and  10 GDPR, and data outside  the scope  of  these Articles the 
dissemination  of  which causes immediate damages or distress  to the data subject, such  as location 
data, data on private communication, national identification numbers, or financial data 289.  

129.  The EDPB takes note of  the  large number  of  categories of  personal  data transferred to  the US, as 
outlined  in  the  Draft Decision 290.  More  specifically,  Part  A  of  Appendix  1  to  the  Meta US’s  Data 
Transfer and Processing Agreement of 25 May 2018 mentions: ‘the personal  data generated, shared 
and  uploaded  by  or  about  individuals  who  visit,  access,  use  or  otherwise  interact  with  the 
products  and  services  of  the  data  exporter  (including  Facebook  and  Instagram);  information 
related to the things  users  do  and the information  users  provide  when  using  the services  (such  as 
profile information, posted photos and videos, shared location information, communications between 
users, and related information  about use of  the products and services);   information related to the 

                                                             
283 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 88. 
284 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 85. More specifically, the EDPB has clarified that, for the 
purpose of Art. 83(2)(e) GDPR, previous infringements of either the same or different subject matter to the one 
being investigated might be considered as ‘relevant’ (EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 87). The 
EDPB  has also clarified that, even  though all prior infringements might provide an indication about the 
controller’s or processor’s general attitude towards the observance of the GDPR, infringements of the same 
subject matter must be  given more  significance, as they are  closer to the  infringement currently under 
investigation, especially when the controller or processor previously committed the same infringement (EDPB 
Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 88)284. 
285 AT SA Objection, p. 4, Section C.2.3. 
286 IE Final decision dated 2 September 2022 in the matter of Meta Platforms Ireland Limited, formerly Facebook 
Ireland Limited, and the ‘Instagram’ social media network further to an own-volition inquiry; IE SA Final decision 
dated 31 December 2022 concerning a complaint directed against Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (formerly 
Facebook Ireland Limited) in respect of the Instagram Service; IE SA Final decision dated 31 December 2022 
concerning a complaint directed against Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (formerly Facebook Ireland Limited) in 
respect of the Facebook Service.  
287 The IE SA found that Meta IE infringed Art. 6(1) GDPR, 5(1)(a), 12(1) and 13(1)(c) GDPR. 
288 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 58. 
289 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 58. 
290 Draft Decision, paragraph 4.4. 

Adopted 

 

40 

data subjects that other users of the products and services provide (such as a user’s imported contacts 
or photos); information related to users’ networks and connections  (such as a user’s connections to 
groups,  pages, and other  users);  information  related to payments  (such  as  information  related to 
purchases  or financial transactions); information  about devices  (such  as information from  or about 
the  computers, phones  or  other devices  where  users  install  software provided  by,  or  that access 
products and services of, the data exporter);  information from websites and apps that use products 
and services of the data exporter (such as information about visits to third-party websites or apps that 
use  a “like”  or “comment” button  or other  service integrations); and  information  from third-party 
partners (such  as information  related to jointly  offered  services or use  of  third party services); and 
information from affiliates of Facebook and companies in the Facebook family of companies’ 291.  

130.  As raised by some of the objections, it is therefore clear that the FB International Transfers found to 
be  violating the  GDPR concerns  personal  data including  ‘photographs, videos  or  messages’ 292  and 
‘everyday data of social interactions with family, friends, acquaintances and others’ 293. Of particular 
relevance  is  the  DE  SAs  view  that  ‘a  map  of  social  contacts  is  very  interesting  for  foreign  law 
enforcement and intelligence’, and that the transferred data allows ‘not only to infer many matters of 
private and professional  lives, but also allows  to infer further data, including emotional and mental 
states’ and ‘can also be misused for political manipulation’ 294.   

131.  In the same document it is  also specified  that special categories of data in  the meaning of  Article 9 
GDPR are transferred 295.  It is therefore clear that the FB International Transfers found to be violating 
the GDPR concern personal data including  special categories of personal  data, as also noted by the 
objections 296.  

132.  Meta IE argues that ‘a large number of categories of data being involved’ in  the transfers does  ‘not 
equate  to  a  large  number  of  categories  of  personal  data  being  “affected”  by  the  (alleged 
infringement)’ 297. However, for the reasons already explained in  paragraphs 94 to 96 of this Binding 
Decision, the EDPB cannot accept this argument.  

133.  In light of  the above  assessment, the EDPB considers  that a large number of categories of personal 
data have  been  affected by  the infringement, including  special  categories of  personal  data under 
Article 9 GDPR. Therefore, this factor has to be taken into account when deciding on  whether a fine 
should  be imposed.  

 

 

                                                             
291 Draft Decision, paragraph 4.4. 
292 FR SA, paragraph 6, p. 2.  
293 DE SAs Objection, p. 10.  
294 DE SAs Objection, p. 10 
295 Draft Decision, paragraph 4.4. Part A of Appendix 1 to the Meta US’s Data Transfer and Processing Agreement 
of 25 May 2018 mentions: ‘Special categories of data - Such data may include:  personal data revealing racial or 
ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, data concerning 
health or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation; and  genetic data and biometric data 
(as those terms are defined in the GDPR) for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person.’ 
296 Draft Decision, paragraph 4.4. DE SAs Objection, p.10; FR SA Objection, p. 2, paragraph 6; ES SA Objection 
p.2; AT SA Objection, p. 3, Section C.2.1.  
297 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.17. 

Adopted 

 

41 

On the manner in which the infringement became known to the supervisory authorities (Article 83(2)(h) 
GDPR) 

134.  The DE SAs consider relevant that ‘the infringement became known to the supervisory  authority by a 
submission  of a data subject, not by chance or report by the controller itself’ 298.  In this regard, Meta 
IE SA  responds  that ‘The proposed  finding  of  infringement arises from  this own-volition  inquiry.  As 
noted above, however, Meta Ireland does not consider that there has been (or is) any infringement, 
and so never notified the alleged infringement to the DPC’ 299. 

135.  The EDPB notes that the Inquiry is an own-volition  inquiry, and not a complaint-based one 300. In any 
case, the EDPB considers that, as a rule, the circumstance that the infringement became known to the 
supervisory  authority  by  a  complaint  or  an  investigation  should  be  considered  as  neutral 301.  The 
objections  do  not  put forward reasons  that would  justify  a departure from this  rule  in the present 
case.  

136.  Therefore, the EDPB is of  the view that nothing arises to be taken into account here when deciding 

whether an administrative fine should be imposed on Meta IE. 

On any  other aggravating  or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of  the case, such  as 
financial  benefits  gained,  or  losses  avoided,  directly  or  indirectly,  from  the  infringement  (Article 
83(2)(k) GDPR) 

137.  As the EDPB has previously  explained, Article 83(2)(k) GDPR gives the supervisory  authority room to 
take into account any other aggravating or mitigating factors applicable to the circumstances of the 
case in  order to ensure that the sanction applied  is effective, proportionate and dissuasive  in  each 
individual case 302. For example, financial benefits gained, or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, from 
the infringement should  be taken into account when deciding whether an administrative fine should 
be imposed. In addition, the EDPB recalls that the scope of Article 83(2)(k)  GDPR is necessarily open-
ended  and should  include  all the reasoned considerations  regarding the socio-economic  context in 
which the controller or processor  operates, those relating to the legal context and those concerning 
the  market  context 303.  More  specifically,  economic  gain  from  the  infringement  could  be  an 
aggravating circumstance if  the case provides  information  about profit  obtained  as  a result of  the 
infringement of the GDPR 304.  

138.  The DE SAs provide an overview of the Meta Group’s financial position - of which Meta IE is a part -  in 
order to illustrate Meta IE’s high profitability 305. In the DE SAs’ view, Meta IE’s turnover would not be 
possible  without the data transfers to the US ‘as it is  a result of processing the data cumulatively by 
one infrastructure from different markets with all effectivity and efficiency that results from that’  306. 
However, according to the DE SAs, Meta IE has not made an effort to ‘ reinvest this turnover in order 
to withdraw the data from the US’ and to ‘build up data centres in the EU’ which, in their view, allowed 

                                                             
298 DE SAs Objection, p. 10. 
299 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions paragraph 18.19.  
300 Draft Decision, paragraphs 1.3, 1.6, 2.6-2.47. Preliminary Draft Decision, paragraph 1.13. 
301 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 99. 
302 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 107. 
303 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 109. 
304 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 110. 
305 DE SAs Objections, p. 10. 
306 DE SAs Objections, p. 10. 

Adopted 

 

42 

Meta IE to directly benefit from its own non-compliance  and non-action to establish compliance 307. 
The DE SAs argue that ‘the considerable economic and financial capacity should be taken into account 
when  calculating the  fine  [...] even  if  there would  be  no  specific  financial  benefit  gained with the 
infringement or where it could not be determined and/or calculated’ 308.  

139.  Meta IE responds  to  this  by  arguing that it has  ‘invested  significantly  in  data centres’ and  already 
operated ones in the EU to support the provision  of the Facebook service, but ‘ cannot “localise” the 
Facebook Service to support Meta Ireland Users solely from servers in the EU’ 309. In addition, as noted 
by  the IE SA  in the Draft Decision, Meta IE’s position  is that, if  it cannot make the FB International 
Transfers, it would not be in a position to provide its services in the EU/EEA 310. Meta IE explains that 
this  is  due to  ‘the inherently  global, interconnected nature of  the Facebook  Service and  the highly 
complex technical infrastructure that has been developed to support it’ 311. 

140.  Given that Meta IE acknowledges that it would not be able to offer its services in the EU/EEA without 
performing the transfers, it can be inferred that transferring the data to the US in a way that infringes 
the GDPR is inextricably linked to the provision of the service to EU/EEA individuals. In this regard, the 
EDPB recalls that it is the business  model which must adapt itself and comply with the requirements 
that the GDPR sets out in general and for each of  the legal bases and not the reverse 312. Moreover, 
Meta IE indicates that the suspension  order proposed by the IE SA would have ‘severe consequences’ 
for  Meta  IE 313  and  ‘would  clearly  have  a  devastating  impact  on  FIL’s  business,  revenue  and 
employees’ 314, which also suggests that a considerable part of its profits derived from the provision 
of the service in the EU arise from the breach of the GDPR.   

*** 

141.  In summary, with respect to the assessment of the factors under Article 83(2) GDPR, the EDPB takes 
the view that, taking into account the scope of the processing, as well as the very high number of data 
subjects affected, Meta IE committed an infringement of significant nature, gravity and duration. The 
EDPB also recalls its view that Meta IE committed the infringement at least with the highest degree of 
negligence, that a wide range of categories of personal data have been affected by the infringement, 
including special categories of personal data under Article 9 GDPR, and that the provision of the service 
by Meta IE in the EU is inextricably linked to the breach of the GDPR.  

142.  The analysis of the relevant factors under Article 83(2) GDPR speaks in favour of the need t o impose 
an administrative fine. Now the EDPB proceeds with an assessment of the criteria under Article 83(1) 
GDPR. 

*** 

                                                             
307 DE SAs Objections, p. 10. 
308 DE SAs Objections, p. 10. 
309 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 18.24(A). 
310 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.46; Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraphs 6.3 and 12.8; See also Annex 5 to 
the Meta IE PDD Submissions - the Meta Ireland Data Transfers Report dated 2 July 2021, and the  independent 
expert report from Professor Nieh of Columbia University dated 24 September 2021 (‘Nieh Expert Report’). 
311 Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraph 2.6. (B) 
312 Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 119; Binding Decision 4/2022, paragraph 122;  
313 Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraph 2.7 (E) 
314 Meta IE PDD Submissions, Part D, paragraph 4.56 

Adopted 

 

43 

The application of the criteria under Article 83(1) GDPR, in particular effectiveness and dissuasiveness 

143.  The EDPB recalls that the administrative fine to be imposed in addition to the suspension order needs 
to be ‘effective, proportionate and dissuasive’  in accordance with Article 83(1) GDPR, which, read in 
conjunction with Recital 148 GDPR, makes it clear that the imposition of effective, proportionate and 
dissuasive  fines,  is  a means to achieve the more  general objective  of effective  enforcement of the 
GDPR.  

144.  As  previously  mentioned,  the IE  SA  in  its  Draft Decision  takes  the  view  that  the imposition  of  an 
administrative  fine  in  addition  to  a suspension  order  ‘would  not  be  "effective, proportionate  and 
dissuasive”’  as  required  by  Article 83(1)  GDPR and  ‘would  not  render  the  DPC’s  response  to  the 
findings  of unlawfulness  any more effective’ 315. In its Composite  Response, the IE SA also notes that 
the objections  and  comments  received by  the CSAs  ‘broadly  focus  on  concerns  of  deterrence and 
effectiveness’ 316.  

145.  In Meta IE’s view, ‘the imposition of an administrative fine ‘would not be “appropriate, necessary and 

proportionate”, as required by Recital 129 GDPR’ and as explained in the IE SA’s Draft Decision 317.  

146.  The  DE  SAs,  FR  SA,  ES  SA  and  AT  SA  all  raise  concerns  with  regard  to  the  effectiveness  and 
dissuasiveness of the measures proposed by the Draft Decision and consider that the imposition of a 
fine is necessary in order to meet the requirements of effectiveness and dissuasiveness  under Article 
83(1) GDPR 318.  

147.  As  explained in  the EDPB Guidelines  on  calculation of fines,  a fine  can be considered  effective  if it 
achieves the objectives  with which it was imposed 319. The same reasoning applies to the choice of 
corrective measures under the GDPR in general. The EDPB recalls that the objective pursued by the 
corrective measure chosen  can be  to re-establish  compliance with the rules, or  to punish  unlawful 
behaviour,  or  both 320.  In  addition,  in  accordance  with  Recital 148 GDPR,  penalties  including 
administrative fines  should  also be imposed  ‘in order to strengthen the enforcement of the rules of 
this Regulation’. As to dissuasiveness,  the EDPB consistently recalls that a dissuasive  fine is one that 
has a genuine deterrent effect 321.    

148.  The EDPB agrees with the ES and FR SAs’ view that the suspension  order proposed by the IE SA has a 
forward-looking nature, while an administrative fine would have a punitive effect with regard to the 
already committed or ongoing infringements 322. This position  is reinforced by the AT SA’s view that 
an  administrative  fine  would  be  effective  in  the  present  case  ‘for  counteracting the  established 
infringement in  the past’ 323. Considering the wording of Article 58(2)(i) GDPR ‘in addition  to’ and of 
Recital 148 GDPR ‘penalties including administrative fines’, the EDPB agrees with the ES, FR and AT 

                                                             
315 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.48. 
316 Composite Response, p.1. 
317 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraphs 17.1 to 17.8. 
318 DE SAs Objection, p. 7-9;  ES SA Objection, p. 2-3; FR SA Objection paragraphs 15-17; AT SA Objection, p. 3-4. 
319 EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, paragraph 135. 
320 EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, paragraph 135. 
321 The punitive objective pursued by administrative fines is also evident from the wording of Recital 148 which 
refers to ‘penalties’ which should be subject to appropriate procedural safeguards. See also EDPB Guidelines on 
Administrative Fines, paragraph 142 ; See also e.g. Binding Decision 01/2020, paragraph 196; Binding Decision 
01/2022, paragraph 76 ; Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 382. Binding Decision 4/2022, paragraph 354.  
322 ES SA Objection, p. 2; FR SA Objection, paragraph 8. 
323 AT SA Objection, p.3, Section C1. 

Adopted 

 

44 

SAs  that the suspension  order and an administrative fine would  be compatible and complementary 
corrective measures.   

149.  The EDPB recalls that a fine is dissuasive where it prevents its addresses from infringing the objectives 
pursued and rules laid down by Union law 324. What is decisive in this regard is not only the nature and 
level of  the fine  but also the likelihood  of it being imposed  -  anyone who commits  an infringement 
must fear that the fine will in fact be imposed on them 325. In this regard, the criterion of dissuasiveness 
and  that of  effectiveness  overlap,  as  they  seek  to  produce  similar  effects 326.  This  has  also  been 
confirmed by AG Geelhoed who has explained that enforcement activities are considered ‘effective’ if 
they create a credible probability that, in case of non-compliance, the individuals or entities concerned 
run a high risk  of being detected but also of  being imposed  sanctions  which would  at least deprive 
them of any economic benefit accruing from the transgression of the legal provisions  at stake 327.  

150.  In  that respect, the  EDPB recalls that a  distinction  can  be  made between  general deterrence (i.e. 
discouraging others  from committing the same infringement in  the future) and specific  deterrence 
(i.e. discouraging the addressee  of  the fine from  committing the  same infringement again) 328. The 
EDPB has  previously  held  that, in  order to  ensure  deterrence, the fine  must  be  set at a level  that 
discourages  both  the controller  or  processor  concerned as  well  as  other  controllers  or  processors 
carrying out similar processing operations from repeating the same or a similar unlawful conduct 329. 
The EDPB notes that all of the relevant and reasoned objections raise concerns with regard to the lack 
of general and specific deterrence of the proposed corrective measures. 

151.  As regards specific deterrence, the EDPB notes that according to the AT SA, ‘Meta Ireland does not 
seem to have shown any efforts to refrain from transferring personal data to Meta Platforms, Inc.’ but 
seems instead to have ‘expressed that these data transfers are a fundamental requirement to be able 
to continue to provide its services in the EU/EEA area’. The AT SA derives from this that Meta IE ‘might 
not be prepared to stop the data transfer in  question’ 330. In the same vein, the DE SAs consider that 
‘the individual  case at hand does not allow to conclude that Meta is sufficiently  deterred’ because it 
has  not  recognised  its  non-compliance  in  the  past  and  has  not  shown  any  form  of  active 
repentance 331. The DE SAs are concerned that a suspension  order alone would not suffice to change 
the overall attitude of Meta towards general data protection compliance 332. 

152.  The EDPB shares the AT SA’s and DE SAs’ concerns. Indeed, there is nothing in the case file that allows 
the EDPB to consider  that the imposition  of  a suspension  order would  be sufficient  to a chieve the 
effective and dissuasive effect that a fine can produce, as required under Article 83(1) GDPR. The EDPB 
recalls  that Meta IE argues,  throughout  its  submissions,  that the  applicable  US  law  and  practices 
relevant to the FB International Transfers, in conjunction  with the appropriate safeguards provided 

                                                             
324 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 143. 
325 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraphs 142-143, referring to Opinion of A-G Kokott in joined 
cases C-387/02, C-391/02 and C-403/02, Silvio Berlusconi and Others, paragraph 89.  
326 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraphs 142-143, referring to Opinion of A-G Kokott in joined 
cases C-387/02, C-391/02 and C-403/02, Silvio Berlusconi and Others, paragraph 89. 
327 See Opinion of AG Geelhoed in case C-304/02, Commission v France, paragraph 39.   
328 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 143; referring to Judgement of the Court of 13 June 2013, 
C-511/11 Versalis, ECLI:EU:C:2013:386, paragraph 94. 
329 Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 382. 
330 AT SA Objection, p. 4, Section C.3. 
331 DE SAs Objection, p.8. 
332 DE SAs Objection, p.8. 

Adopted 

 

45 

pursuant to the 2021 SCCs, provide the requisite protection for Meta IE users’ data for the purposes 
of Article 46(1) GDPR 333 and therefore disagrees with the IE SA’s finding of an infringement. The EDPB 
also takes note of Meta IE’s criticism of the EDPB Recommendations on Supplementary Measures and 
of  its view  that they ‘make a number of  recommendations which  appear to be based  either on an 
erroneous interpretation of the CJEU Judgment and/or which seek to impose a higher standard upon 
data exporters seeking to rely on SCCs than the CJEU Judgment itself requires’ 334. Moreover, Meta IE 
itself recognises that ‘despite the TIA [Transfer Impact Assessment] being an assessment envisaged by 
the CJEU Judgment, the DPC did not request FIL’s assessment prior to the issue of the PDD ’, so Meta 
IE did not present it proactively but only after the IE SA requested it 335.  

153.  The EDPB concurs with the FR SA’s observation that suspending the unlawful transfer and bringing the 
processing into compliance with the GDPR is already an obligation resulting expressly from the GDPR 
and the Schrems II Judgment 336. The EDPB also agrees that the burden imposed by the suspension 
order is not greater than the burden which derives from the controller’s legal obligations 337 and that 
in the absence of  a dissuasive  effect arising from  the final  decision  to be adopted by  the IE SA, the 
controller will have no incentive to refrain from repeating its unlawful behaviour. As correctly noted 
by the FR SA, in the current version  of the Draft Decision, ‘the only risk for a controller who fails to 
comply with its obligation to suspend an unlawful transfer would be that a supervisory authority would 
order it to do so’ 338.  

154.  In  light of  the  above, the  EDPB considers  that on  the basis  of  Meta IE’s statements  and  position 
described  in the above paragraphs, a suspension  order alone would  not be  enough to produce the 
specific deterrence effect necessary to discourage Meta IE from  continuing or committing again the 
same infringement.  

155.  As regards general deterrence, the EDPB agrees with the FR, DE and AT SAs’ view that it is necessary 
to take into account not only  the effect of the corrective measures in this particular case with reg ard 
to Meta IE, but also with regard to other controllers in general. More specifically, the AT SA points out 
that transferring data to the US is ‘a widely used practice among numerous  controllers’ and that not 
imposing a fine on Meta IE would send a message that past infringements of the GDPR would not be 
properly  addressed,  which  would  also  give  no  incentive  to  other  controllers  to  comply  with  the 
GDPR 339.  The  FR  SA  highlights  that,  if  an  administrative  fine  is  not  imposed,  other  controllers 
transferring personal data under similar conditions as Meta IE would have no incentive to bring their 
transfers  into  conformity  with  the  GDPR 340.  Indeed,  as  the  AT  SA  notes,  the  imposition  of  an 
administrative fine  also  has  an awareness-raising function  among other controllers  who  should  be 
given  a  clear signal  that non-compliance  with  the  GDPR has  consequences  which  also  cover  past 
behaviour 341.  

                                                             
333 See for example Meta IE Revised PDD Submissions on the, Part B, paragraph 5.1 and Part C, paragraph 5.2; 
Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraph 8.4. See also  Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraphs 16.4 and 18.4; Meta 
Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 2,  paragraph 2.45.    
334 Meta IE PDD Submissions, Part C, p. 78-79. 
335 Meta IE PDD Submissions, paragraph 8.1. 
336 Schrems II judgement, paragraph 121.  
337 FR SA Objection, paragraph 15. 
338 FR SA Objection, paragraph 15. 
339 AT SA Objection, p. 2, Section B. 
340 FR SA Objection, paragraph 17. 
341 AT SA Objection, p. 4, Section C.3. 

Adopted 

 

46 

156.  The EDPB concurs with the AT SA view that if Meta IE is not fined for the infringement of Article 46(1) 
GDPR in the present case, other controllers might conclude that ‘the cost of continuing an unlawful 
practice will  outweigh  the expected  consequences  of  an  infringement and  will  be  less  inclined  to 
comply  with  the  GDPR’. In  the  same  vein,  the  DE  SAs  consider  that  if  the  only  thing  that  the 
undertakings affected by  the Schrems  II Judgment need to fear is an order to stop future transfers, 
then ‘many managers might decide to just continue the transfer until they get caught’. In this regard, 
the  EDPB recalls  AG  Geelhoed’s  explanation  that  the  threat  of  repressive  action  must  generate 
sufficient  pressure to make non-compliance  economically unattractive and therefore to ensure that 
compliance with the legal rules is realised in practice 342. In this regard, the EDPB takes note of the DE 
SAs observation that a fine would produce a deterrent effect if the costs of non-compliance with the 
GDPR are higher than the costs for compliance with the GDPR 343. 

157.  The EDPB agrees that the  above-mentioned  arguments are especially  relevant in  view  of  the high 
degree of responsibility  of Meta IE as a controller. The DE SAs pointed out that Meta IE is an ‘ extremely 
profitable’, ‘data driven undertaking’, whose  turnover is ‘almost completely a direct result of Meta 
IE’s data processing’ 344. Therefore, it is likely that Meta IE’s behaviour has an impact on the behaviour 
of  other  controllers  who  would  be  inclined  to  follow  the  same  model.  The  same  is  valid  for  the 
response of the supervisory authorities in case of an infringement - as pointed out by the DE SAs, if no 
fine  is  imposed  on  Meta IE by  the  IE  SA,  other  controllers  ‘may  demand  to  be  treated by  other 
supervisory  authorities as the DPC treated Meta’ 345. 

158.  In light of the above, the EDPB takes the view that the imposition of an administrative fine in addition 
to  the  suspension  order  would  have  an  important  deterrence  effect, which  the  imposition  of  a 
suspension  order alone cannot have. The additional imposition of an administrative fine in the present 
case would  be  effective and  dissuasive  especially  because  of  the punitive  element concerning the 
infringement that has already materialised, which the suspension  order proposed by the IE SA lacks.  

The application of the criteria under Article 83(1) GDPR, in particular proportionality 

159.  The EDPB recalls that the principle of proportionality is a general principle of EU law which has been 
explained  by  the CJEU  on  numerous  occasions.  It is  consistent  case-law that for  a  measure to  be 
proportionate, it  has  to  pursue  a  legitimate objective,  be  appropriate for  attaining this  legitimate 
objective, and not go beyond  what is necessary to achieve it 346. More specifically, by  virtue of  that 
principle, measures imposing  financial charges on economic  operators are lawful provided  that the 
measures  are  appropriate  and  necessary  for  meeting  the  objectives  legitimately  pursued 347.  In 

                                                             
342 See Opinion of AG Geelhoed in case C-304/02, Commission v France, paragraph 39.   
343 DE SAs Objection, p. 12. 
344 DE SAs Objections, p. 10. 
345 DE SAs Objection, p. 7. 
346  Judgement of the  Court of 13 March 2012, Case C-380/09 (P), Melli Bank/Council, ECLI:EU:C:2012:137, 
paragraph 52;  Judgement  of  the  Court of  10  December 2002, Case C-491/01 British American  Tobacco 
(Investments) and  Imperial  Tobacco,  ECLI:EU:C:2002:741, paragraph 122; Judgment  of  the  Court  (Grand 
Chamber) of 6 December 2005, Joined Cases C-453/03, C-11/04, C-12/04 and C-194/04, ABNA and Others, 
ECLI:EU:C:2005:741, paragraph 68. 
347 Judgement of the Court of 11 July 1989, Hermann Schräder HS Kraftfutter GmbH & Co. KG v Hauptzollamt 
Gronau, Case 265/87, ECLI:EU:C:1989:303, paragraph 21. 

Adopted 

 

47 

addition, where there is a choice between several appropriate measures, the least onerous measures 
must be used and the charges imposed  must not be disproportionate to the aims pursued 348. 

160.  Therefore, the  EDPB underlines  that applying  the principle  of  proportionality  in  the context of the 
present case requires a clear determination of the legitimate objective pursued  by the imposition  of 
an administrative fine in addition to the suspension  order. Then, it is also necessary to ascertain that 
the imposition  of an administrative fine in addition to the suspension  order would be appropriate to 
attain the legitimate objective pursued and would not go beyond what is necessary in order to attain 
that objective. In order to assess this, due regard should  be given to the circumstances of the case, as 
well as to the infringement viewed as a whole, account being taken, in particular, of the gravity of the 
infringement 349. More specifically, the imposition  of an administrative fine should  be proportionate 
both to the severity of the infringement and to the size of  the undertaking to which the entity that 
committed the infringement belongs 350. 

161.  In this regard, the EDPB agrees with the DE SAs and AT SA view that the legitimate aim (or objective) 
pursued by the imposition of an administrative fine in the present case is to punish unlawful behaviour 
in order to ensure effective enforcement of and compliance with the GDPR and hence - protect the 
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subjects 351.  

162.  As to the appropriateness (or suitability) of the measure to achieve the legitimate aim, the EDPB notes 
that according to Meta IE, the imposition of a fine would not be appropriate due to the complexities 
of this particular inquiry 352. Meta IE refers to the IE SA’s statements in the Composite Response, and 
argues that ‘the imposition of an administrative fine, by way of a punitive sanction, would be anything 
other than a disproportionate response in the circumstances of this particular case’, especially where 
‘the objective of an administrative fine is to sanction wrongdoing that has already occurred’ 353.  

163.  The EDPB is not swayed by Meta IE’s reasoning. First, nothing in the Court’s comments in paragraph 
202 of the Schrems II judgment suggests that the imposition  of an administrative fine in the present 
case would be inappropriate: the CJEU explains that in view of Article 49 GDPR, the annulment of an 
adequacy decision is not liable to create a legal vacuum, because it details the conditions under which 
transfers of personal data to third countries may take place in  the absence of an adequacy decision 
under  Article 45(3) GDPR or  appropriate  safeguards  under  Article 46  GDPR. Moreover,  the  IE  SA 
                                                             
348 Judgement of the Court of 11 July 1989, Hermann Schräder HS Kraftfutter GmbH & Co. KG v Hauptzollamt 
Gronau, Case 265/87, ECLI:EU:C:1989:303, paragraph 21; See also Judgment of the Court of 12 July 2001, Jippes 
and Others, Case C‑189/01, Judgment of the Court of 12 July 2001, paragraph 81; Judgment of the Court (Grand 
Chamber) of 7 July 2009, S.P.C.M. and Others, Case C‑558/07, ECLI:EU:C:2009:430, paragraph 41. 
349 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 138 - the EDPB has explained that ‘It follows that fines 
must not be disproportionate to the aims pursued (i.e. compliance with the r ules relating to the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and rules relating to the free movement of 
personal data), and that the amount of the fine imposed must be proportionate to the infringement, viewed as 
a whole, account being taken, in particular, of the gravity of the infringement’.  
350 EDPB Guidelines on caclulation of fines, paragraph 139 referring to Judgment of the Court of of 4 July 2000, 
C-387/97, Commission v Greece, ECLI:EU:C:2000:356, paragraph 90,  and Judgment of the Court of 25 November 
2003, C-278/01, Commission v Spain, ECLI:EU:C:2003:635, paragraph 41. 
351 DE SAs Objection p.12; See also paragraph 50 of this Binding Decision; AT SA Objection, p. 3, Section C.1. 
352 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 17.2. Meta IE quotes the IE SA’s finding that an administrative fine 
would not be appropriate ‘In light of the complexities of this particular inquiry (the circumstances of which must 
include the comments of the CJEU, as set out in paragraph 202 of the CJEU Judgment, concerning the possible 
application of the Art. 49 GDPR derogations), [the DPC] remains of the view that the imposition of a punitive 
sanction is not an appropriate response.’ 
353 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 17.4, citing the Composite Response, p. 3.  

Adopted 

 

48 

examines in detail the possibility for Meta IE to rely on Article 49 GDPR for the transfers and concludes 
that it is not open to Meta IE to rely on the derogations at Article 49(1) GDPR (or any of them) 354. 

164.  Second, as explained above 355, the additional imposition of an administrative fine in the present case 
would  be effective and dissuasive  precisely because of  the punitive  element, which the suspension 
order  proposed  by  the  IE  SA  lacks.  In  this  regard, the  DE  SAs  rightly  highlight  that the  ‘effective 
enforcement  can only  be  reached  if  the  fine  is  effective  and  both  special  preventive  and  general 
preventive’. In the same vein, the AT SA considers  that ‘to strengthen enforcement of the GDPR, an 
administrative fine is  effective in the present case for counteracting the established infringement in 
the past’ 356.  

165.  Therefore, the  EDPB takes  the  view  that, in  the  circumstances  of  the  present  case  as  described 
above 357,  the  suspension  order  alone  cannot  achieve  the  objective  pursued,  namely  to  punish 
unlawful behaviour in order to ensure effective enforcement of the GDPR. Therefore, the IE SA is not 
in  a  situation  where  it  has  ‘a choice  between  several  appropriate  measures’  putting it  under  an 
obligation  to  choose  the least  onerous  one 358  because  the  suspension  order  and  the  fine  pursue 
different objectives.   

166.  It is  then necessary  to assess  whether  the imposition  of  an  administrative fine  in  addition  to the 
suspension  order would  go beyond  what is necessary to achieve the objective  of ensuring effective 
enforcement of a GDPR through effective and dissuasive corrective measures.  

167.  The EDPB has already clarified that, in order to be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, a corrective 
measure should  reflect the circumstances of the individual  case, which include not only  the specific 
elements of the infringement but also the specificities of the controller or processor’s position, namely 
their financial position, as correctly observed  by the AT SA 359. For example, the EDPB has previously 
recognised, in  the context of  the assessment  of  the proportionality  of  the fine  under  Article 83(1) 
GDPR, that an LSA can, in principle, consider a reduction on the grounds of the inability to pay the fine, 
if  the  requesting  undertaking  can  demonstrate  that  its  economic  viability  is  jeopardised  by  the 
proposed fine 360. In addition, the EDPB has recognised that the difficult economic context in which a 
company  is  operating can be  a factor to take into  account 361, but  has  also  recalled that the mere 
finding that an undertaking is in an adverse or loss-making financial situation does not automatically 
warrant a reduction of the amount of the fine 362. 

                                                             
354 Draft Decision, paragraph 8.106. 
355 See paragraphs 143 to 158 above. 
356 AT SA Objection, p. 3, Section C.1. 
357 See paragraphs 89 to 142 above.  
358 Judgment of the Court of 11 July 1989, Hermann Schräder HS Kraftfutter GmbH & Co. KG v Hauptzollamt 
Gronau, Case 265/87, ECLI:EU:C:1989:303, paragraph 21. 
359 The AT SA refers to paragraph 414 of Binding Decision 1/2021 where the EDPB underlined that ‘in order to 
be effective, a fine should reflect the circumstances of the case. Such circumstances not only refer to the specific 
elements of the infringement, but also those of the controller or processor who committed the infringement, 
namely its financial position’. The EDPB considers that the same reasoning should be followed when deciding on 
the imposition of fines in general.  
360 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraphs 140-141; see also Binding Decision 01/2022, paragraph 
68. 
361 Binding Decision 01/2022, paragraph 69. 
362  Binding Decision 01/2022, paragraph  70, referring to Judgment  of  the  Court of  28  June  2005,  Dansk 
Rørindustri and Others v Commission, joined cases C-189/02 P, C-202/02 P, C-205/02 P to C-208/02 P and C-
213/02 P, ECLI:EU:C:2005:408, paragraph 327 

Adopted 

 

49 

168.  Regarding Meta IE’s size and financial capacity, the EDPB recalls the DE SAs’ observations on the size 
and turnover of the Meta group 363, indicating that Meta IE is, indeed, a highly profitable undertaking 
and the imposition  of a fine would not, in  itself, be a disproportionate measure. The EDPB observes 
that  Meta  IE  does  not  invoke  concrete  arguments  to  demonstrate  that  the  imposition  of  an 
administrative  fine  would  be  disproportionate  but  merely  refers  to  the  IE  SA  statements  in  the 
Composite Response 364. The EDPB agrees with the ES SA’s view that in terms of proportionality, Meta 
IE is ‘an entity that generates huge profits, so  imposing a fine taking into account the gravity of the 
infringement and the nature of the processing would not be disproportionate and would not cause it 
harm which it would not have to face as a result of acts contrary to the GDPR’ 365. The EDPB also agrees 
with the AT SA’s and DE SAs’ view that, considering the assessment of the relevant factors referred to 
in Article 83(2) GDPR, the imposition  of a fine would not be disproportionate 366.  

Conclusion  

169.  In light of the above, the EDPB concludes that, considering the assessment carried out in this Binding 
Decision  of the relevant factors under Article 83(2)  GDPR referred to in  the relevant and reasoned 
objections, namely the factors under Article 83(2)(a), (b), (d), (g), and (k) GDPR, as well as of the criteria 
under Article 83(1) GDPR, the IE SA’s decision not to impose a fine for the breach by Meta IE of Article 
46(1) GDPR does not comply with the GDPR. The EDPB considers that the imposition  of a suspension 
order alone would not be sufficient to achieve the objective of effective enforcement of the GDPR.  

170.  Therefore, the EDPB takes the view that an administrative fine must be imposed  on Meta IE for the 

breach of Article 46(1) GDPR.  

171.  In addition, the EDPB recalls that the factors under Article 83(2) GDPR also need to be given due regard 
by the IE SA in the calculation of the amount of the administrative fine, as the ‘conclusions reached in 
the first stage of the assessment may be used in the second part concerning the amount of the fine’  367. 

172.  The  EDPB Guidelines  on  the  calculation  of  administrative  fines  indicate  that when  classifying  the 
seriousness  of the infringement and identifying the appropriate starting amount of the fine, in light of 
the circumstances of the specific case, the SA must give due regard to the nature, gravity and duration 
of the infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing concerned, as 
well as the number of data subjects affected and the level of damage suffered by them (Article 83(2)(a) 
GDPR); the  intentional or  negligent character of the  infringement (Article 83(2)(b)  GDPR); and the 
categories of personal data affected by the infringement (Article 83(2)(g) GDPR) 368. 

173.  In this regard, the EDPB recalls the gravity of the infringement at stake carried out by Meta IE, taking 
into account the particularly large scope of the processing and the very high number of data subjects 
affected 369, as well as the long duration of the infringement, which is still ongoing 370. The EDPB also 

                                                             
363 According to the DE SAs Objection, the Meta group ‘has an annual profit (net income) of EUR 34.760 billion 
with a turnover of EUR 104.122 billion in 2021’. DE SAs Objection, p. 10, referring to Meta Reports Fourth Quarter 
and Full Year 2021 Results, https://investor.fb.com/investor-news/pressrelease- 
details/2022/Meta-Reports-Fourth-Quarter-and-Full-Year-2021-Results/default.aspx 
364 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions paragraphs 17.4-17.8. 
365 ES SA Objection, p. 3 
366 AT SA Objection, p. 3, Section C.2. DE SA Obj ection, p. 11, cc.   
367 EDPB Guidelines on Administrative Fines, p. 9.  
368 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 52. 
369 See paragraphs 93 to 96 above.  
370 The infringement started more than two years ago and is still ongoing. See paragraphs 97 and 98 above.  

Adopted 

 

50 

reiterates its view that Meta IE committed the infringement of Article 46(1) with at least the highest 
degree of negligence. In addition, the EDPB recalls that a wide range of  categories of personal data 
are affected by the infringement, including personal data covered by Article 9 GDPR. Therefore, based 
on the evaluation of the factors under Article 83(2)(a), (b) and (g) GDPR, the EDPB takes the view that 
the infringement is of a high level of seriousness  371. 

174.  The  EDPB recalls  that  the  Guidelines  on  calculation  of  fines  indicate  starting amounts  for  further 
calculation of the fine on the basis of whether the infringement is classified as being of a low, medium 
or high degree of seriousness  372. In accordance with the Guidelines on calculation of fines, the EDPB 
takes the view that the LSA should  determine the starting amount for further calculation of the fine 
at a point  between 20 and 100% of the applicable legal maximum 373. The EDPB recalls that starting 
amounts as  expressed in  the EDPB Guidelines  on  calculation of fines  are starting points  for further 
calculation while SAs have the discretion to utilise the full fining range ensuring that the fine is tailored 
to the circumstances of the case 374.   

175.  The EDPB also recalls that after having evaluated the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement 
as well as the intentional or negligent character of the infringement and the categories of personal 
data affected, account must also be taken of the remaining aggravating and mitigating factors under 
Article 83(2) GDPR 375. 

176.  In this respect, the EDPB reiterates its view that Meta IE bears a high degree of responsibility  376 and 
that Meta IE’s design of the FB service prevents it from providing this service in the EU/EEA without 
the FB International Transfers, which were found to be in breach of the GDPR. Consequently, the EDPB 
considers that the factors referred to in Article 83(2) (d) and (k) GDPR are aggravating and should  be 
attributed sufficiently heavy weight in the calculation of the administrative fine by the LSA.   

177.  When calculating the final amount of the fine, the LSA should use the total worldwide annual turnover 
of the undertaking concerned for the preceding financial year, i.e. the worldwide annual turnover of 
all  the  entities  composing  the  single  undertaking 377. In  the  present  case, this  is  the  consolidated 
turnover  of  the  group  of  companies  headed  by  Meta Platforms,  Inc. On  the  notion  of  ‘preceding 
financial year’, the event from which the preceding financial year should  be considered is the date of 
the final decision taken by the LSA pursuant to Article 65(6) GDPR. 

178.  In light of the above, the EDPB instructs the IE SA to impose an administrative fine on Meta IE for the 
infringement of Article 46(1) GDPR that is in line with the principles of effectiveness, proportionality 
and dissuasiveness  under Article 83(1), giving due regard to the relevant aggravating factors under 
Article 83(2)  GDPR, namely the factors referred to  in  Article 83(2)(a), (b), (g), (d),  (k)  GDPR. When 
calculating the  fine,  the  IE  SA  should  take  into  consideration  the  total turnover  of  the  group  of 
companies headed by Meta Platforms, Inc. for the financial year preceding the adoption of the IE SA’s 
final decision. The IE SA’s assessment should  be guided by the EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines 
and the EDPB’s assessment in this Binding Decision.   

                                                             
371 See EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 61. 
372 See EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 61. 
373 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 61, third indent. 
374 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 70 and footnote 38.  
375 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 71. The Guidelines clarify that each criterion of Art. 83(2) 
GDPR should only be taken into account once (paragraph 73).  
376  
377 See also Binding Decision 01/2021, paragraph 291 and Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 356.  

Adopted 

 

51 

Additional considerations   

179.  For  the  sake  of  completeness,  the  EDPB  also  addresses  Meta  IE’s  allegations  in  its  Article  65 
Submissions  that the imposition of an administrative fine would breach the general principle of equal 
treatment or non-discrimination and the principle of legal certainty.  

180.  As previously  noted 378, Meta IE agrees with the IE SA’s reasoning behind the decision  not to impose 
an administrative fine  for the breach of  Article 46 GDPR set out in paragraphs 9.47 and 9.48 of the 
Draft Decision 379  and  considers  this  reasoning  to  be  in  line  with  Recital 129  and  Article  58(2)(i) 
GDPR 380. The IE SA considers that the imposition of an administrative fine in this particular case would 
risk discriminating against Meta IE, given the absence of any corresponding fine in the decisions issued 
in  response  to  the  ‘101  complaints’  regarding the  use  of  Google  Analytics  introduced  by  NOYB 
following  the  Schrems  II judgement, and  given the absence  of  a comparable action  taken  vis-a-vis 
Google  LLC 381.  The  EDPB  also  takes  note  of  Meta  IE’s  argument  that  the  imposition  of  an 
administrative fine ‘would breach the principles of non-discrimination and equal treatment, which are 
fundamental principles of EU law’ and ‘would result in an entirely inconsistent application of the GDPR 
by the CSAs’ 382. Meta IE also refers to the national decisions taken in response to the ‘101 complaints’ 
regarding the use of Google Analytics 383, as well as to the ‘EDPS CJEU Decision’ 384 and the ‘EDPS EP 
Decision’ 385,  and  highlights  that although  infringements  have  been  found  in  these  decisions,  no 
administrative fines have been imposed  on the controllers concerned 386. In addition, Meta IE claims 
that the imposition of an administrative fine in the present case would be discriminatory against it and 
would  violate  the  ‘general principle  of  self-binding  effect of  the  general practice followed  by  the 
supervisory  authorities  to  date’ 387.  In  addition,  according  to  Meta  IE,  the  imposition  of  an 
administrative  fine  on  Meta  Ireland  would  violate  the  principles  of  proportionality  and  legal 
certainty 388.  

181.  As  regards the  principles  of  equal  treatment, the EDPB observes  that the  only  argument Meta IE 
provides to substantiate its view that the imposition of an administrative fine would be discriminatory 
against it consists  of a claim that the decisions  adopted following  the 101 complaints filled  by NOYB 
and the observation that the EDPS decisions referred to have not imposed administrative fines on the 
controllers  concerned  in  these  cases. However, the  EDPB  considers  that   this  allegation  does  not 
undermine the conclusion  that the imposition of a fine was necessary in this particular case.  

182.  The principles of equal treatment, or non-discrimination, referred to by Meta IE is a general principle 
of European law that has been explained by the CJEU in the following terms: ‘The different treatment 
of  non-comparable  situations  does  not  lead  automatically  to  the  conclusion  that  there  is 

                                                             
378 See paragraph 84, footnote 190 and paragraph 145 above.  
379 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 14.1. 
380 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 14.3. 
381 Composite Response, p.2.  
382 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 8.1.  
383 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 8.2. 
384 EDPS Decision authorising temporarily the use of ad hoc contractual clauses between the Court of Justice of 
the EU and  Cisco for transfers of personal data in the Court's use of Cisco Webex and related services of 31 
August 2021 
385 Decision of the European Data Protection Supervisor in complaint case 2020-1013 submitted by Members of 
the Parliament against the European Parliament of 5 Ja nuary 2022 
386 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 8.4. 
387 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 8.7. 
388 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, paragraph 8.8. 

Adopted 

 

52 

discrimination.  An  appearance of  discrimination  in  form  may  therefore  correspond  in  fact  to  an 
absence of discrimination  in substance. Discrimination in substance  would consist  in treating either 
similar situations differently or different situations identically’ 389.  

183.  Therefore, the  EDPB does  not  consider  that the imposition  of  a fine  in  the present  case would  be 
discriminatory vis-a-vis Meta IE, merely because other controllers have not been fined in other cases 
where transfers have been deemed to be in breach of the GDPR following the Schrems II judgment. 
As  Meta IE points  out  itself, Article 58(2)(i)  GDPR grants each supervisory  authority  the power  to 
‘impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83, in addition to, or instead of measures referred 
to in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances of each individual case’. In addition, the EDPB 
recalls the CJEU’s finding  that ‘when carrying out their duties, the supervisory  authorities must act 
objectively  and  impartially’ 390. A  reference to ‘individual  cases’ is  also  present in  Article 65  GDPR, 
requiring the EDPB to ensure the consistent application of the GDPR in individual  cases. 

184.  The  CJEU  has  also  recognised  that  discrimination  ‘cannot  occur  if  inequality  in  the  treatment of 
undertakings corresponds  to an inequality in  the situations of  such undertakings’ 391. In this  regard, 
the EDPB notes that the similar or identical nature of the cases brought before the SAs and the EDPB 
has not been demonstrated by Meta IE. The EDPB also recalls that Articles 83(1) and (2) GDPR have 
been drafted in  such  a way as to  prevent arbitrary and discriminatory decisions  by  the supervisory 
authorities - they provide clear rules and criteria to be taken into account by  all SAs when enforcing 
the GDPR and when deciding on the most appropriate course of action depending on the seriousness 
of the infringements at stake. In this context, the EDPB has specified, with regard to Article 83(2)(k) 
GDPR, that it is ‘fundamental importance for adjusting the amount of the fine to the specific case’  and 
that ‘it should  be interpreted as  an instance  of  the principle  of  fairness  and  justice  applied  to the 
individual case’ 392.   

185.  The EDPB recalls that, pursuant to Article 70(1)(u) GDPR, one of its tasks is  to ensure the consistent 
application of the GDPR by, among others, promoting the cooperation and the effective bilateral and 
multilateral exchange of information and best practices between the supervisory authorities. Indeed, 
the  need  to  ensure  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR is  particularly important  in  circumstances 
where the supervisory  authorities handle  complaints  with identical content and  which concern the 
same infringements committed by different controllers, as in the case of the ‘101 complaints’.  

186.  However, the dispute that the EDPB is called to resolve with this Binding Decision concerns a separate 
own-volition  inquiry,  the  outcome  of  which  is  currently  disputed  before  the  EDPB by  four  CSAs. 
Therefore, the EDPB is under the legal obligation to take a decision on the merits of the objections in 
this  individual  case,  in  accordance  with  Recital  136  GDPR, Article  65(1)(a)  GDPR  and  the  EDPB 
Guidelines  on  Article 65(1)(a)  GDPR. As  the similarity  of  the cases  referred to  be Meta IE and the 
present case has not been demonstrated, the mere fact that in other cases no administrative fine has 
been imposed for the same infringement does not constitute discriminatory treatment against Meta 
IE.    

                                                             
389 Judgment of the Court of 17 July 1963, Italian Republic v Commission of the European Economic Community,  
Case 13-63, ECLI:EU:C:1963:20, paragraph 4(a); Judgment of the Court of 23 February 1983, Wagner v Balm, 
Case 8/82, ECLI identifier: ECLI:EU:C:1983:41, paragraph 18.  
390 Judgment of the Court of Justice of 9 March 2010, European Commission v Federal Republic of Germany, Case 
C-518/07, ECLI:EU:C:2010:125, paragraph 25. 
391 Judgment of the Court of 27 September 1979, Eridania, Case 230/78, ECLI:EU:C:1979:216, paragraph 18. 
392 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 108. 

Adopted 

 

53 

187.  Therefore, the EDPB cannot accept Meta IE’s argument that, by instructing the IE SA to impose on 
Meta IE an administrative fine for the breach of Article 46(1) GDPR would violate the principle of equal 
treatment or non-discrimination.   

188.  Furthermore, the EDPB cannot agree with Meta IE’s view that the imposition of an administrative fine 
would breach the principle  of legal certainty. The principle  of legal certainty, also a general principle 
of EU law, requires that ‘legal rules be clear and precise and aims to ensure that situations and legal 
relationships  governed  by  EU law remain foreseeable’ 393. This  being said, the  EDPB has previously 
recalled that it is settled case law that legal certainty is not absolute 394 and undertakings are expected 
to take appropriate legal advice to anticipate the possible consequences of  a rule and to assess the 
risk  of infringement with ‘special care’ 395. In addition, the fact that the undertaking concerned  has 
characterised wrongly in law its conduct upon which the finding of the infringement is based cannot 
have the effect of exempting it from imposition of a fine 396. 

189.  The EDPB considers that the GDPR lays down sufficiently  clear and precise rules both with regard to 
the  lawfulness  of  transfers  of  personal  data to  third  countries  and  with  regard to  the exercise  of 
corrective powers by the supervisory  authorities in case of infringements, including the imposition  of 
administrative fines. Also considering that Article 83(5)(c) GDPR subjects the infringements of Articles 
44-49 GDPR to the highest administrative fine possible  under the Regulation, the EDPB cannot agree 
that the imposition of a fine for the breach of Article 46(1) GDPR by Meta IE would be unforeseeable. 
In addition to the fact that the GDPR provides clear and precise rules on fines, the way in  which the 
EDPB  understands  the  correct application  of  Article  83  GDPR  is  explained  in  detail  in  the  EDPB 
Guidelines  on  calculation  of  fines,  which  are public  and  easily  accessible.  Last  but  not  least, the 
imposition  and calculation of administrative fines is an issue that was addressed by the EDPB in all of 
its Binding Decisions to date 397, three of which relate to GDPR infringements committed by Meta IE 398.  

190.  In these circumstances, and taking into account the lack of further arguments put forward by Meta IE, 
the EDPB considers that the legal situation governed by the GDPR in the present case is sufficiently 
foreseeable and does not jeopardise the principle of legal certainty. 

191.  Therefore, EDPB considers that the application of the principles of equal treatment and legal certainty 
does not contradict the EDPB’s conclusion that an administrative fine has to be imposed for the breach 
of Article 46(1) GDPR by Meta IE. 

 

 

                                                             
393 Judgment of 15 February 1996, Duff and Others, C-63/93, EU:C:1996:51, paragraph 20. 
394 Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 396, referring to Judgement of the Court of Justice of 14 April 2005, 
Belgium v. Commission, C-110/03, ECLI:EU:C:2005:223, paragraph 31; Judgement of the General Court of 17 
May 2013, Trelleborg Industrie SAS, T-147/09, ECLI:EU:T:2013:259, paragraph 96; Judgement of the General 
Court of 13 July 2011, Schindler, T-138/07, ECLI:EU:T:2011:362, paragraph 99. 
395 Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 369, referring to Judgement of the Court of Justice of 22 October 2015, 
AC-Treuhand AG, C-194/14 P, ECLI:EU:C:2015:717, paragraph 42. The AG Campos Sanchez-Bordona also recently 
emphasized that there are domains where ‘legal advice tends to be the rule and not the exception’ (Opinion of 
the Advocate-General of 9 December 2021, French Court of Cassation, C-570/20, ECLI:EU:C:2021:992, paragraph 
81), which is the case of data protection. See also, ECtHR (Gd ch.), Kononov v. Latvia, 17 May 2010, paragraphs 
185 and 215. 
396  Judgment  of  the  Court  (Grand Chamber) of  18  June  2013,  Schenker &  Co.  and  Others, C ‑681/11, 
ECLI:EU:C:2013:404, paragraph 38. 
397 See Binding Decisions 1/2020, 1/2021, 1/2022, 2/2022, 3/2022, 4/2022, 5/2022.  
398 See Binding Decisions 2/2022, 3/2022, 4/2022.  

Adopted 

 

54 

5  ON THE IMPOSITION OF AN ORDER REGARDING TRANSFERRED 

PERSONAL DATA 

5.1  Analysis by the LSA in the Draft Decision 

192.  The IE SA considered ‘whether it could be said to be “appropriate, necessary and proportionate” to 
direct Meta IE to  procure  the return and/or  deletion  of  some  or of  all  the personal  data that has 
already  been  transferred  to  Meta US’ 399. The  IE  SA  takes  the  view  that  ‘the making  of  an  order 
directing the bulk return and/or deletion of all transferred data from an identified point in time would 
be excessive’ 400.  

193.  Nevertheless, the IE SA then states that ‘it must (and will) be open  to any individual  user to exercise 
the rights conferred on them by Chapter III of the GDPR, in accordance with the law, and to the fullest 
extent’ 401.  

5.2  Summary of the objections raised by the CSAs 

194.  The DE and FR SAs object to the choice of the corrective measures in the IE SA’s Draft Decision.  

195.  The DE SAs note that the Draft Decisions proposes an order to suspend  future transfers from Meta IE 
to  Meta Platforms,  Inc. in  the US  (pursuant  to Article  58(2)(j)  GDPR), which  means the  corrective 
measure does  not affect the personal data of EEA users already transferred to and processed in the 
US. The DE SAs take the position  that the Draft Decision should  be amended by including a measure 
pursuant to Article 58(2)(d), (f) or (g) GDPR ordering Meta IE to ‘cease any processing, including any 
storage, in the US of personal data of users from the EEA transferred to Meta Inc. at least since the 
Schrems  II judgment  of  16 July  2020 within  a reasonable period  of  time, which  shall  not exceed 6 
months after the termination of this cooperation procedure’ 402. In this respect, the DE SAs consider 
that the  return or  deletion  of  the data unlawfully  transferred to  the  US  constitute  a ‘particularly 
effective measure’ 403. 

196.  The DE SAs put forward several factual and legal arguments for the proposed change 404. In particular, 
the  DE SAs  refer to  the  ‘disproportionate  access by  US  authorities’ and  the lack  of  effective  legal 
remedies  for  data  subjects 405,  which  results  on  the  need  to  cease  the  processing  of  previously 
transferred data. In accordance with the DE SAs, that is ‘the only way to ensure that the GDPR is fully 
enforced’ 406, since ‘other actions [...] in the draft decision do not comply with the GDPR because they 
are not  sufficient  to  remedy the  infringement’ 407.The DE SAs  thus  consider  that ‘not  ordering the 
cessation  of  the  processing  [...] would  result  in  tolerating the unlawful  transfers  that  have  taken 
place’ 408.  

                                                             
399 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.49. 
400 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.49. 
401 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.49. 
402 DE SAs Objection, p. 6. 
403 DE SAs Objection, p. 4. 
404 DE SAs Objection, p. 2-6. 
405 DE SAs Objection, p.2. The DE SAs also refer in this respect to the Draft Decision, which addresses these 
aspects, particularly, in paragraphs 7.169 and 9.51. 
406 DE SAs Objection, p.3. 
407 DE SAs Objection, p.3. 
408 DE SAs Objection, p. 3.  

Adopted 

 

55 

197.  The DE SAs also address the responsibility  of the supervisory  authorities ‘to monitor the application 
of  the  GDPR  and  to  ensure  its  enforcement’  and  that,  with  respect  to  corrective  power,  such 
responsibility  entails ‘ensuring that the GDPR is fully  enforced with all due diligence’  409. The DE SAs 
put forward that the enforcement responsibility of the supervisory authorities is by no means affected 
by the possibility  for individual data subjects to exercise their rights under Chapter III of the GDPR to 
obtain an end to processing  of their data that have been transferred unlawfully 410. Further, the DE 
SAs analyse the legal bases that, in their view, provide for the corrective powers to order the cessation 
of the processing, including any storage, in the US of personal data of EEA users already transferred 411. 

198.  The IE SA states in the Draft Decision that ‘making of an order directing the bulk return and/or deletion 
of all transferred data from an identified point in time would be excessive’ 412, without - in the DE SAs 
view - providing arguments as to why such a remedy would be disproportionate 413. The DE SAs  take 
the view  such  an order  is  not  excessive,  in  particular because  i)  at the  latest since  the Schrems  II 
judgment,  the  controller  knew  that  ‘the  surveillance  programmes  based  on  [the  applicable  US 
legislation] cannot be regarded as limited to what is strictly necessary in a democratic society’  414 and 
ii) the obligation to return or delete the data was already provided  both in  the former and the new 
SCCs,  ‘if the data importer cannot comply  with its obligations under the SCCs’ 415. Given the explicit 
confirmation of the validity of the former SCCs  in the Schrems II judgement and the fact that the new 
SCCs  mirror the wording of the old SCCs  with respect to the obligation to return or delete the data 
transferred, the  DE SAs  considers  that ‘there is  no  doubt  that  the obligation  of  the  controller  to 
return/delete the data is also proportionate in the new SCCs’ 416. In addition, the DE SAs recall that, by 
entering into  the SCCs,  the parties have committed to return or  delete the transferred data ‘if the 
importer cannot comply with its  obligations under  the SCCs’ 417. Thus, according to the DE SAs, the 
imposition of a compliance order couldn’t take the controller by surprise. 

199.  On the risks  posed  by the Draft Decision, the DE SAs see a permanent high risk  to the fundamental 
rights and freedoms of the data subjects, namely disproportionate access by US authorities to the EEA 
users’ data without recourse to effective legal remedies, as identified by both the CJEU and the IE SA 
in the Draft Decision 418. In addition, the DE SAs take the view that the Draft Decision as it stands sets 
a dangerous precedent by not ensuring effective enforcement of the GDPR 419.  

200.  The FR SA notes that the Draft Decision proposes  an order to suspend  future transfers to the US, but 
does not ‘contain any compliance order in relation to data that have already been transferred, have 
been retained in the US and continue to be processed by the company’ 420. The FR SA takes the position 
                                                             
409 DE SAs Objection, p. 2, citing the Schrems II judgment, paragraphs 108 and 112. 
410 DE SAs Objection, p. 3. 
411 DE SAs Objection, p. 5-6. 
412 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.49. 
413 DE SAs Objection, p. 4. 
414 DE SAs Objection, p. 4.  
415 DE SAs Objection, p. 4. 
416 DE SAs Objection, p. 4. 
417 DE SAs Objection, p. 4. 
418 DE SAs Objection, p. 2-5, citing the Schrems II judgment, paragraphs 184, 197 and following and the Draft 
Decision, paragraph 10.1. 
419 DE SAs Objection, p. 5 : ‘Controllers could infringe the GDPR, but would not be required by the supervisory 
authority to remedy the infringements in full. Consequently, infringements could pay off for controllers. This 
could lead to a culture of non-compliance with the  GDPR. It  is clear that this would lead to risks for the 
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subjects’. 
420 FR SA Objection, paragraphs 22-23. 

Adopted 

 

56 

that the Draft Decision should  be amended by including a measure pursuant to Article 58(2)(d) GDPR, 
ordering Meta IE to bring into compliance the processing of data that were unlawfully transferred, at 
least since the Schrems II judgment, in particular by returning or deleting the data 421. Regarding the 
compliance period, the FR SA notes that the order ‘must allow data subjects to exercise their rights. 
In  particular, the  company  must  enable  data subjects  to  retrieve  the  data relating  to  the  users' 
accounts before deleting it, if necessary’ 422. 

201.  The FR SA puts forward several factual and legal arguments for the proposed change 423. In particular, 
the FR SA considers  that ‘the issues  identified  in the Schrems II judgment ‘remain after the transfer 
phase,  once  the  data  are stored  in  the  United  States’ and  those  issues  should  be  addressed 424. 
Additionally, the FR SA considers  that, even though the IE SA concludes that the data transfers were 
unlawful, it does  not ‘draw all the consequences  of the unlawfulness’  and therefore ‘does not allow 
to bring the data processing into compliance’ 425.The FR SA also underlines that ‘the return or deletion 
of personal  data that were unlawfully  transferred aims at ensuring compliance of a data processing 
that did not comply with the GDPR’ and notes that this is illustrated by Recital 33 of the Privacy Shield 
decision, which provided for such measure 426. 

202.  On the risks posed by the Draft Decision as it stands, the FR SA refers to the Schrems II judgement and 
the findings  in  the Draft Decision to conclude  that the risks  ‘to the privacy of users of the Facebook 
service’  are  materialised  ‘in  cases  where  the  US  Government  accesses  the  data’,  in  particular 
considering  that  Facebook  accounts  ‘may  contain  a  lot  of  information  about  the  private  life  of 
users’ 427.  

5.3  Position of the LSA on the objections 

203.  The  IE  SA  confirmed  that  it  considered  the  objections  raised  under  this  heading  to  satisfy  the 
applicable threshold such that they ought to be considered  ‘relevant and reasoned’ 428.  Considering 
the merits  of  the objections,  IE SA  noted  that the objections  ‘broadly  focus  on  the  concerns  that, 
without  an  order  directing  the  “bulk”  return  or  deletion  of  personal  data that has  already  been 
transferred to the US, the Draft Decision fails to completely bring the processing into compliance’  429, 
and ‘since users had no  choice nor means to object to the transfer of  their personal  data to the US 
and in light of the primary responsibility  of the supervisory  authorities to monitor the application of 
the  GDPR and  ensure  its  enforcement,  it  seems  inconsistent  to  now  impose  on  the data  subjects 
individually  the burden of having the process of their personal data ceased, that personal data having 
been unlawfully transferred to the US’ 430.  

204.  Addressing, firstly, the possibility  of whether or not an order might be made to direct the ‘bulk’ return 
of personal data that has already been transferred to the  US, the IE SA noted its understanding that 

                                                             
421 FR SA Objection, paragraphs 25-27. 
422 FR SA Objection, paragraph 26. 
423 FR SA Objection, paragraphs 23-25 
424 FR SA Objection, paragraph 23. 
425 FR SA Objection, paragraph 25. 
426 FR SA Objection, paragraph 24. 
427 FR SA Objection, paragraph 23. 
428 IE SA’s ‘Internal Assessment of the Status of Objections’, annex to the IE SA’s letter to Meta IE dated 28 
September 2023. 
429 Composite Response, p. 3. 
430 Composite Response, p. 3. 

Adopted 

 

57 

‘Meta Ireland is unlikely  to be in a position  to comply with such an order’ 431. The IE SA noted, in this 
regard, that Meta IE, as part of its Data Transfers Report dated 2 July 2021, explained why, in its view, 
it  is  not  possible  for  EEA User  Data to  be  segregated from  non-EEA  User  Data 432.   In light  of  the 
identified limitations, the IE SA noted that it appeared that Meta IE could not comply with an order 
directing the ‘bulk’ return of personal data that has already been transferred to the US.    

205.  In light of the above, the IE SA takes the view, that ‘it would be ineffective to make an order directing 
the “bulk” return of personal  data that has already been transferred to the US, the terms of which 
cannot be complied with by the data controller or processor concerned’ 433. 

206.  Addressing, secondly,  the possibility  of whether or not an order might be made to direct the ‘bulk’ 
deletion of  personal  data that has already been transferred to the US, IE SA noted that Recital 129 
GDPR provides  that: ‘The powers of supervisory  authorities should  be exercised in accordance with 
appropriate procedural safeguards set out  in Union  and Member State law […].  In particular each 
measure should […] respect the right of every person to be heard before any individual measure which 
would affect him or her adversely is  taken [...].’  The IE SA then considered the differences between 
an order to direct the ‘bulk’ deletion of personal data that has already been transferred to the US and 
the order to suspend transfers already envisaged in the Draft Decision. In this respect, the IE SA noted 
that, as regards the order for suspension  proposed  by the Draft Decision, ‘any consequent impact on 
individual users would arise as a result of the architecture of the systems developed and deployed by 
Meta IE in the delivery of its services and not by the proposed order itself’ 434.  In the view of the IE SA, 
the position,  however, would  be very  different if  the Draft Decision were to also  include  ‘an order 
requiring the “bulk” deletion of any personal data that has already been transferred to the US’ given 
that, according to the IE SA, this would ‘clearly constitute an individual  measure that would not only 
affect Meta Ireland but also all of the data subjects whose personal data would be subject to erasure 
as a result of the implementation of the order. Such an order would also likely impact on businesses 
and  other  (non-profit)  organisations  that currently  conduct  their  business  operations  exclusively 
through, or in reliance on, Facebook’ 435. The IE SA ‘considers that these individuals  and entities would 
be adversely affected’ 436 by such  an order and detailed the likely  adverse effects that it considered 
would  be suffered  by  data subjects, businesses  and  non-profit  organisations. In addition, the IE SA 
highlights the difficulty  to reconcile the temporary nature of  the order to suspend  transfers, which 
was not challenged by any CSA, with an order to delete any data that has already been transferred 437. 

207.  The  IE  SA  further  noted  that  ‘it  is  unclear  how  the  requested  order  could  take  account  of  the 
exemptions  provided  for in  Article 17 and  how it could  be complied  with by  Meta Ireland in  a way 
which does not result in the deletion of personal data which is being processed jointly by data subjects, 
businesses  and  other  organisations  for  the  purposes  identified  in  Article  17  (3)’  438.  In  these 
circumstances, the IE SA concluded that it could not amend the Draft Decision to include the requested 

                                                             
431 Composite Response, p. 3. 
432 Composite Response, p. 3-4. In particular, the IE SA refers to Meta IE’s arguments on the interconnectedness 
of the Facebook service and the impossibility to re-sort the database locations by jurisdiction.  
433 Composite Response, p.4. 
434 Composite Response, p.5. 
435 Composite Response, p.5. 
436 Composite Response, p.5. 
437 Composite Response, p.6. 
438 Composite Response, p.6. 

Adopted 

 

58 

order without affording the individuals  and entities who/which  risk  being adversely  affected by the 
requested order the right to be heard beforehand 439. 

208.  In light of the above, the IE SA concludes that ‘the most appropriate course of action is to leave it open 
to individual data subjects to consider whether or not they might wish to exercise their right to erasure 
in respect of any personal data that might have already been transferred to the US’ 440.  

5.4  Analysis of the EDPB 

5.4.1  Assessment of whether  the objections were  relevant and reasoned  

209.   The objections  raised by DE and FR SAs  concern ‘whether the action envisaged in the Draft Decision 

complies with the GDPR’ 441. 

210.  The EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s view that not a single objection put forward by the CSAs  meets the 
threshold of Article 4(24) GDPR 442. Meta IE argues that CSAs must ‘limit their Objections to the specific 
corrective measures proposed  by the DPC as LSA and whether these comply with the GDPR’ and may 
not ‘substitute their own view of the appropriate corrective measures’ 443, concluding that the DE SAs’ 
and FR SA’s objections are not relevant.  

211.  The EDPB recalls its view that CSAs are not restricted to criticising the corrective measures set out by 
an LSA in its draft decision, but may ask for specific additional corrective measures to be taken by the 
LSA - provided  the objection is sufficiently reasoned to demonstrate that the lack thereof means the 
envisaged action of  the LSA does  not comply  with the GDPR 444. This is a possibility  both  to address 
infringements already identified in the Draft Decision or, as the case may be, identified by the CSA in 
an objection raised 445. 

212.  The DE SAs and FR SA disagree with a specific part of the IE SA’s Draft Decision, namely the section on 
corrective  measures  chosen  by  the  IE SA,  by  arguing  that an  additional  order  should  have  been 
included  in  the  Draft Decision  in  addition  to  the  order to  suspend  transfers 446. If  followed,  these 
objections  would  lead  to  a  different  conclusion  as  to  the  choice  of  corrective  measures.  In 
consequence, the EDPB considers the objections to be relevant.  

213.  The  EDPB is  not  swayed  by  Meta IE’s submission  that the  objections  at issue  are  not  sufficiently 

reasoned 447.   

                                                             
439 Composite Response, p.6.  
440 Composite Response, p. 6. 
441 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 32.  
442 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.3 and 2.11.  
443 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.4 - 2.6, and 2.12. 
444 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 33 and examples 5 and 6. See above, paragraph 66. 
445 See  Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 416, Binding Decision 4/2022, paragraphs 265-269, and Binding 
Decision 5/2022, paragraphs 231 - 233.  
446 DE SAs Objection, p. 2 ; FR SA Objection, paragraphs 21-24.  
447 On the reasoning set out by the DE SAs, Meta IE alleges that the DE SAs do ‘not provide any supporting 
reasoning as to why it says that the DPC was mistaken in its factual findings’, without indicating which element 
of the DE SAs objection this allegation refers to. (Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.16). Meta 
IE includes an example which refers only to the Composite Response and the DE SAs reply thereto, dated 27 
September 2022. This example does not clarify which element of the DE SAs objection Meta IE is referring to in 
its allegation. On the factual elements and legal arguments put forward by the FR SA, Meta IE does not allege 
any shortcoming. Meta IE’s submissions on the risk posed by the Draft Decision are addressed below.  

Adopted 

 

59 

214.  The EDPB finds that the DE SAs and FR SAs provide sufficient reasoning on why they propose amending 
the Draft Decision  and how  this  leads  to a different conclusion  in  terms of  corrective measures as 
explained in paragraphs 196-201 above 448.  

215.  In terms of risks, Meta IE argues that the DE SAs and FR SA do not sufficiently  demonstrate that the 
Draft Decision poses a significant risk to fundamental rights and freedoms  of data subjects. In Meta 
IE’s view, the FR SA and DE SAs  do not substantiate ‘the extent to which Historic Meta Ireland User 
Data is likely to be accessed by USG authorities’ 449. Further, in Meta IE’s view, the FR SA ‘provides no 
information  regarding the alleged risks  to  Meta Ireland Users, the personal  data concerned  or the 
extent to which such data might be accessed by USG authorities’ 450 and ‘erroneously seeks to rely on 
the Privacy Shield Decision, which is no longer in force, to justify its position’ 451. Regarding the DE SAs 
objection,  Meta IE argues  ‘there was  always  only  limited  practical risk  of  interference with  Meta 
Ireland Users’ data protection and redress rights as a result of the Meta Ireland Data Transfers, and 
any such risk only affected a relatively limited number of users’ 452. 

216.  In this  regard, the EDPB firstly  notes  that the  IE SA  did  not  accept Meta IE’s submissions  whereby 
government access to data in the US  is ‘limited and proportionate in  practice’  453. In fact, the IE SA 
considers that Meta IE’s submissions  in this respect ‘seem to simply ignore the ruling of the CJEU’  454. 
The IE SA also notes that Meta IE does not demonstrate ‘that practice in the US is such as to address 
the deficiencies  identified above in the laws of the US’ 455. The EDPB further recalls that none of the 
findings  of  the IE SA on  the  infringements committed by  Meta IE is  challenged or  disputed  by  the 
objections raised by the CSAs.  

217.  The EDPB considers that the DE SAs  articulate an adverse effect on the rights and freedoms of data 
subjects  if the Draft Decision is left unchanged, by  referring to a failure to guarantee a high level of 
protection  under  EU law  for  the  rights  and  interests  of  the  individuals  whose  personal  data have 
already been transferred in the past 456. The significance of this adverse effect is demonstrated by the 
Schrems II judgment 457. The DE SAs see a further adverse effect, namely that the Draft Decision sets 
a dangerous precedent for future decisions regarding other controllers 458. Therefore, the EDPB finds 
that the DE SAs  clearly demonstrate the significance of  the risks  to the data subjects  posed  by the 
Draft Decision. 

218.  The EDPB considers that the FR SA  articulates an adverse effect on the rights and freedoms  of data 
subjects  if  the  Draft Decision  is  left  unchanged,  by  leaving  personal  data  transferred in  the  past 
exposed  to  access  by  the  US  government, despite  the  significance  of  the  risks  recognised  by  the 

                                                             
448 DE SAs Objection, p. 2-6. See summary above, paragraphs 195-199. FR SA Objection, paragraphs 21-27. See 
summary above, paragraphs 200-202. 
449 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.7 and 2.14. 
450 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.7-2.9. 
451 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraph 2.8. 
452 Meta IE Art. 65 Submissions, Annex 1, paragraphs 2.15. Meta IE refers to its PDD response, Part E, paragraphs 
3.9 to 3.12. 
453 Meta IE’s PDD Submissions, part E, paragraphs 3.9 onwards.  
454 Draft Decision, paragraph 7.150, citing in particular Meta IE’s PDD Submissions, Part E, paragraphs 3.9 
onwards. 
455 Draft Decision, paragraphs 7.123 -  7126, citing in particular Meta IE PDD Submissions, Part A, paragraph 
2.4(C) and Part E, paragraph 4.5. 
456 DE SAs Objection, p. 4-5. 
457 DE SAs Objection, p. 3 and footnote 12. 
458 DE SAs Objection, p. 5. 

Adopted 

 

60 

Schrems II judgment 459. Therefore, the EDPB finds that the FR SA clearly demonstrates the significance 
of the risks to the data subjects posed by the Draft Decision 

219.  Considering  the above, the EDPB finds  that the aforementioned objections  of the DE SAs and FR SA 

are relevant and reasoned pursuant to Article 4(24) GDPR.   

5.4.2  Assessment on the merits 

1.  Preliminary matters related to the scope of the order proposed by the FR and DE SAs 

220.  As  mentioned above 460, CSAs  can propose  in their relevant and reasoned  objections  alternative or 
additional corrective measures to those envisaged in the Draft Decision, when they consider that the 
envisaged  measures  are  not  ‘appropriate,  necessary  and  proportionate’  in  view  of  ensuring 
compliance with the GDPR, taking into account the circumstances of the individual  case 461.  

221.  In this respect, Article 58(2) GDPR provides a list of corrective powers that can be exercised by SAs to 
ensure the consistent monitoring and enforcement of the GDPR. These powers are common to all SAs, 
without prejudice  to additional  powers  provided  in  national laws 462. The SAs  can therefore decide 
which measure is the most appropriate and necessary considering the circumstances of the case, but 
must do so in a way that ensures that the GDPR is fully enforced with all due diligence 463. Against this 
background, as the EDPB has previously recalled, a relevant and reasoned objection can also relate to 
actions other than fines, taking into account the range of powers listed in Article 58(2) GDPR  464. Thus, 
CSAs can disagree with the corrective action proposed by the LSA, including when the LSA decides not 
to impose  a specific corrective measure 465. The CSAs  shall then clearly explain the reasons why they 
consider  that a different or  additional corrective measure should  be imposed 466, on  the basis  of a 
reasoning and conclusion  different from the LSA’s on the facts collected and the findings established. 

222.  In this  case, the FR SA and the DE SAs  clearly explain why, in  their view, the IE SA should impose an 
order regarding the data of EEA users unlawfully transferred to and currently stored in the US 467. In 
particular, they refer to the risk to the fundamental rights of data subjects whose data was unlawfully 
transferred to and is  currently processed  in the US, subject  to disproportionate access by US public 
authorities and without the possibility  to have access to judicial remedies 468. In the view of the DE SAs 
and the  FR SA, by  not imposing  such  an order, the IE SA fails  to  draw all the consequences  of the 
unlawfulness  of the transfers 469.   

223.  Therefore, the EDPB shall assess whether, in light of the objections  raised, the envisaged action (in 
this case, the absence of  a measure) included  in the draft decision  does  not comply  with the GDPR 
and  whether, consequently,  the IE  SA  needs  to  include  in  its  final  decision,  in  terms of  envisaged 

                                                             
459 FR SA Objection, paragraph 23. 
460 See above, paragraph 66. 
461 Recital 129 GDPR. EDPB Guidelines on Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, paragraphs 92-93. 
462 Art. 58(6) GDPR and Recital 129 GDPR. 
463 Schrems II judgement, paragraph 112. 
464 EDPB Guidelines on Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, paragraph 92. 
465 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 32. See also EDPB Guidelines on Article 65(1)(a) GDPR, paragraph 92.   
466 EDPB Guidelines on RRO, paragraph 33.  
467 See above, paragraphs 195-202. 
468 FR SA Objection, paragraph 23; DE SAs Objection, p. 2-5.  
469 FR SA Objection, paragraph 25; DE SAs Objection, p. 3. 

Adopted 

 

61 

actions, also  an order regarding the data unlawfully  transferred to the US 470. In its assessment, the 
EDPB also  takes into  consideration  Meta IE’s submissions,  as  well  as  the relevant case  law of  the 
CJEU 471 and the objective pursued by the proposed measure. 

224.  The EDPB underlines that transfers of personal data should only take place when such data will enjoy, 
in  the  third  country, a  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that in  the  EU 472. In  the Draft 
Decision, the IE SA acknowledges this obligation by proposing a temporary suspension  of transfers in 
accordance with Article 58(2)(j) GDPR in order to ‘ensure that the ongoing interferences with the rights 
of data subjects [...] are brought to an end as soon as possible’ 473. The temporary nature of such order 
is justified by the IE SA as ‘new measures [...] may yet be capable of being developed and implemented 
by Meta Ireland and/or Meta US to compensate for the deficiencies identified’ in the Draft Decision 474. 
Such  deficiencies are found  in the ‘very clear inadequacies in US law identified  by the CJEU’  475 and 
their impact ‘in undermining the protection afforded’ 476 to data subjects. 

225.  In particular, the IE SA finds  that US law does not provide an essentially equivalent level of protection 
to that provided in the EU, that the SCCs relied upon by Meta IE cannot compensate for the inadequate 
protection and that Meta IE does not have supplementary measures that can compensate for it  477. 
The IE SA decides  on the suspension  of transfers as, in its view, there are no other means to ensure 
the protection of  personal  data 478, in a situation  in  which the essence  of  the fundamental right of 
effective judicial protection of Meta IE’s users is not respected 479.  

226.  The IE SA takes the view that, if data continued  to be transferred to the US, ‘the general legislative 
scheme and policy  would be significantly undermined’ 480. This is consistent  with the IE SA’s findings 
regarding the breach of Article 46 GDPR due to the lack of supplementary measures that could remedy 
the identified shortcomings. At the same time, the EDPB notes that, as the FR and DE SAs  correctly 
point out 481, the order to suspend transfers, as framed in the Draft Decision, only concerns future data 
transfers  and,  therefore, it  doesn’t  affect  the  personal  data  of  EEA  users  that  has  already  been 
transferred and is being processed in the US 482. In this context, the risks identified by the IE SA would 

                                                             
470 With regard to the order to cease the processing of personal data requested by the DE SAs, the EDPB notes 
that, in accordance with the DE SAs, the processing will only cease in the US if the data are returned or deleted 
(DE SAs Objection, p. 4). Therefore, the EDPB will assess at the same time the request of the DE SAs on the 
cessation of the processing and the request of the FR SA on the return or deletion of the data. In this respect, 
‘returning’ personal data refers to returning it either to the EEA or to a country that provides an adequate level 
of protection of personal data (see DE SAs Objection, p. 4).  
471 See, in particular, Case C-311/18, which states that, when several measures are equally appropriate, recourse 
should be had to the least onerous -paragraph 13. 
472 Schrems II judgment, paragraphs 93-105 (in particular, paragraphs 94 and 105); Art. 44-46 GDPR.    
473 Draft Decision, 9.43(7). 
474 Draft Decision, 9.46. This possibility is also underlined in the Composite Response (p. 6), where the IE SA 
highlights that the aim is to ‘leave room for the possibility that the defi ciencies identified [...] might yet be 
addressed’. 
475 Draft Decision, 9.43(2). 
476 Draft Decision, 9.39. 
477 Draft Decision, 7.201. 
478 Draft Decision, 9.13. 
479 Draft Decision, 8.41. See also Draft Decision paragraphs 8.23 - 8.45, 9.18 (in particular footnote 188), 9.28 
and 9.41. 
480 Draft Decision, 9.22. 
481 FR SA objection, p. 22 ; DE SAs objection, p. 2 section b). 
482 In this respect the EDPB recalls that Art. 44 GDPR provides that ‘All provisions in this Chapter shall be applied 
in order to  ensure that the  level of  protection of natural persons guaranteed by this Regulation is not 

Adopted 

 

62 

continue  to  be  present  for  the  data  currently  stored  in  the  US  despite  the  corrective  measure 
envisaged by the IE SA 483. In accordance with the CJEU, SAs shall take appropriate action ‘in order to 
remedy any findings  of  inadequacy’ identified in  the context of  international data transfers 484. The 
CJEU  further  highlights  that  the  primary  responsibility  of  the  SAs  to  monitor  and  enforce  the 
application  of  the  GDPR is  ‘of  particular importance where  personal  data is  transferred to  a third 
country’ 485.  

227.  Against this background, the DE SAs underline that the cessation of processing in the US, including any 
storage, is the only  measure that can effectively address  such risks  and, together with the order to 
suspend  the transfers, restore and  maintain the level of  protection 486 for the personal  data of EEA 
users. The DE SAs also underline that the cessation of the processing could be ordered in the context 
of, inter alia, a compliance order under Article 58(2)(d) GDPR. Likewise, the FR SA considers that Meta 
IE should  be ordered to bring processing into compliance with the GDPR 487. 

228.  The DE SAs also indicate that the return or deletion of the EEA users data stored in the US constitute 
a ‘particularly effective measure’ to cease the processing 488. Likewise, the FR SA indicates the return 
or deletion of the EEA users’ data stored in the US as a measure aimed at ensuring compliance with 
the GDPR 489.  

229.  The EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s views in its A65 Submissions  and the documents referred therein. In 
its  submissions,  Meta IE  focuses  on  the  concrete means  that  the FR  SA  and  the DE  SAs  consider 
particularly effective at ensuring  compliance  with  the GDPR, namely  the return or  deletion  of  the 
personal data of EEA users stored in the US. In short, Meta IE states that, from a technical perspective, 
an order to return personal data would entail the deletion thereof and that the deletion of personal 
data stored in  US data centres would, in  turn, entail the deletion of  all personal  data of  EEA users, 
including personal data stored in the EEA 490. 

230.  In this respect, the EDPB underlines that, in accordance with the accountability principle, controllers 
are responsible  for  and  shall  be  able  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  the  GDPR  491. This  general 

                                                             
undermined’, which is applicable to ‘[a]ny transfer of personal data which are undergoing processing or are 
intended for processing after transfer to a third country or to an international organisation’, and also covers 
onward transfers of personal data. 
483 DE SAs objection, p. 2; FR SA objection, paragraphs 23 and 25. For instance, the DE SAs refer to fact that the 
data subjects do not have effective legal remedies available to them. 
484 Schrems II, paragraph 111.   
485 Schrems II, paragraph 108. 
486 DE SAs Objection, p. 3-4. 
487 FR SA Objection, 27. 
488 DE SAs Objection, p. 4. 
489 FR SA Objection, paragraphs 24 and 26. 
490 With regard to the return of personal data stored in the US, the EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s views that the 
only way of ensuring that EEA users’ data is no longer stored in the US would be deletion (Meta IE’s A65 
Submissions, 10.2-10.6). The EDPB also takes note of Meta IE’s submissions regarding the interconnectedness 
of the Facebook Service Social Graph and the replication thereof in all data centres. Thus, the EDPB understands 
that this design leads to the storage of all users’ data (including EEA users’ data) in all data centres, in the cache 
layer, as well as in the full copies of the user database available at or near each data centre. According to Meta 
IE, given the replication of the user database, the only way to remove EEA user data stored in US data centres 
as part of the social graph would be to remove those users entirely from Facebook  (see, in particular: Meta IE 
Data Transfer Report, 10-14, 19, 24-27; Nieh Expert Report, paragraphs 7-13, 18-21; Meta IE’s reply to Schrems, 
Part B, paragraph 1.3-1.6; Meta PDD Submissions, part F, paragraphs 5.2-5.3). 
491 Art. 5(2) GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

63 

principle  translates into specific  obligations of  the controller, including the obligation to implement 
appropriate technical  and  organisational measures  to  ensure  and  to  be  able  to  demonstrate that 
processing is performed in accordance with the GDPR and that such measures shall be reviewed and 
updated if necessary 492. As the EDPB has previously  underlined, the right to data protection has an 
active nature and, in  the context of  international transfers, it  requires  exporters and  importers to 
comply  in  an  active and  continuous  manner  by  implementing  legal, technical  and  organisational 
measures that ensure its effectiveness 493.  

231.  Therefore, it is  within the accountability obligations of controllers  to design or, if necessary, update 
their data processing  systems  in  a way  that ensures  the lawful  processing  of  personal  data under 
GDPR.  This  obligation  should  also  apply  with  regard  to  systems  that  require  the  continuous 
transferring of personal data to third countries, especially in a case such as the one at hand, in which 
the CJEU has already declared in two different occasions that the level of protection provided  in the 
US was not essentially equivalent to that in the EU.  

232.  The EDPB recalls that compliance  with the GDPR can be  achieved in  different manners and, in  this 
particular case, it may not necessarily entail the return or deletion of EEA users’ data stored in the US, 
as other technical solutions  could be identified by the controller 494. For the avoidance of doubt, and 
given Meta IE’s submissions  addressing the return and deletion of the EEA users’ data stored in the 
US,  the  EDPB emphasises  that the  objections  of  the  FR  SA  and  the  DE SAs  explicitly  request  the 
imposition of an order to bring processing into compliance which, in the case of the DE SAs’ objection, 
is phrased in the form of an order to cease processing 495. In both cases, the objections mention the 
return or deletion of the EEA users’ data in the US as measures that could achieve such  compliance. 
However, other possible  measures are not excluded. This is especially clear in the DE SAs objection, 
where the DE SAs acknowledge that the cessation of the processing can be implemented by different 
measures, and only refer to the deletion of personal data as an example thereof 496. 

233.  Considering the above, the EDPB will assess whether it should instruct the IE SA to impose an order to 
Meta IE to bring processing operations into compliance with Chapter V GDPR, by ceasing the unlawful 
processing, including storage, in the US of personal  data of EEA users transferred in violation of the 
GDPR.  If such an order is imposed, it will be the responsibility  of Meta IE to identify and implement 
the  appropriate  means  to  bring  processing  operations  into  compliance,  in  accordance  with  its 
accountability obligations.  

                                                             
492 Art. 24 GDPR. 
493 EDPB Recommendations on Supplementary Measures, paragraph 3.  
494 The DE SAs also make reference to this in the Objection. See, in particular, p. 4 where the DE SAs state that 
‘the only way to ensure that the GDPR is fully enforced - except for an order to delete the personal data that 
have already been transferred - is to order the cessation of the processing of the personal data in the USA’ 
(emphasis added) and p. 5, where it is stated that ‘the cessation of the processing of personal data previously 
transferred to the USA can be implemented by different measures’ (emphasis added). 
495 The DE SAs refer several times to the need to bring processing into compliance. See, for example, p. 3 ‘full 
compliance with the GDPR would not be ensured’, p. 4 ‘the imposition of a compliance order cannot be 
surprising for the controller’ and p. 5, when addressing Art. 58(2)(d) GDPR. 
496 See DE SAs Objection, p. 5. See also last paragraph of p. 4.  

Adopted 

 

64 

2.  Preliminary matters related to the legal basis  

234.  For  the avoidance of  doubt, and given  Meta IE’s arguments regarding the legal basis  to impose  an 
order to cease processing as suggested by  the DE SAs, the EDPB wishes  to address this  aspect as a 
preliminary question.  

235.  In accordance with Article 58(2)(d) GDPR, an SA can order a controller or processor to bring processing 
operations into compliance with the provisions  of the GDPR, where appropriate, in a specified manner 
and within a specific period. The FR SA and the DE SAs explicitly mention this provision as providing 
for a suitable corrective measure in this case 497. Meta IE argues that Article 58(2)(d) GDPR ‘does not 
provide  the power to require deletion or to require  a controller to facilitate the return [...] of data 
that is  being processed  by a third  party, including  its processor’ 498. Meta IE also  raises that Article 
58(2)(j) empowering SAs to order the suspension  of data transfers to a third country does  not make 
any  reference to  the  return  or  deletion  of  data already  transferred  and,  in  Meta IE’s view,  ‘this 
omission  indicates a preference for the suspension  of  transfers [...] without affecting personal data 
transferred prior to the suspension’  499.   

236.  As mentioned above, the FR SA and the DE SAs provide in their objections examples of measures that, 
in  this  context, appear particularly  effective  to  bring  processing  into  compliance  or  to  cease the 
processing in the US, namely the return or deletion of the EEA users’ data stored in the US. However, 
the EDPB emphasises that other means to achieve compliance may be available, as recognised by the 
DE SAs in the objection 500.  

237.  In any  case, the  EDPB wishes  to clarify  that Article 58  GDPR represents  the  means for  the  SAs  to 
perform  the  tasks  enshrined  in  Article 57  GDPR 501. In  particular, Article 57(1)  GDPR provides  the 
obligation of  each SA to  ‘monitor and enforce the application’ of  the GDPR. In this  context, Article 
58(2)(d) GDPR clearly sets out the possibility for the SA to order the controller to bring processing into 
compliance, where appropriate, in a specified  manner. In other words, the GDPR provides sufficient 
flexibility  for  the  SAs  to  decide,  where  appropriate,  the  most  appropriate,  necessary  and 
proportionate measure to bring processing into compliance.  

238.  Whenever the legislator considered necessary to specify the content of a type of corrective measure, 
it did so - this is the case with most of the measures under Article 58(2) GDPR. The fact that the order 
to comply leaves discretion to the SA on the most appropriate manner to implement it, is a reflection 
of  the  intention  of  the  legislator  to  allow  the  SAs  to  decide,  where  appropriate, on  the  suitable 
corrective measure in accordance with the circumstances of the case. Therefore, the EDPB considers 
that Article 58(2)(d) GDPR cannot be interpreted in such a way that would prevent SAs from specifying 
the most  suitable  measure, if  the  SA  considers  it  appropriate to do  so. Such  interpretation would 
render the provision  meaningless and would directly contradict settled case law of the CJEU, whereby 
data protection concepts  should  be interpreted in light of  the fundamental rights enshrined  in the 

                                                             
497  See FR SA  Objection, paragraphs 26-27 and DE SAs Objection, p. 5. In this context, the FR SA  considers 
appropriate to order Meta IE to bring the processing of data already transferred into compliance (paragraph 26). 
The DE SAs refer to the cessation of the processing as a corrective measure, pursuant to Art. 58(2)(d) GDPR, to 
restore the level of protection of the GDPR (p. 5).  
498 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, 11.4. 
499 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, Annex 2, 1.11. 
500 See DE SAs Objection, end of p. 5. 
501 See Giurgiu, A., & Larsen, T. A. (2016). Roles and powers of national data protection authorities. European 
Data Protection Law Review (EDPL), 2(3), 342-352, p. 348. 

Adopted 

 

65 

CFR 502. In addition, the EDPB underlines that the fact that Article 58(2)(j) does not make any reference 
to the fate of the data already transferred does not prevent SAs from imposing additional corrective 
measures that will be suitable to the particular circumstances of the case.   

239.  Therefore, the EDPB agrees with the DE SAs and the FR SA that Article 58(2)(d)  GDPR empowers the 
IE SA to impose  in the present case an order to bring processing into compliance with Chapter V, by 
ceasing the unlawful processing, including storage, in the US of personal data of EEA users transferred 
in violation  of the GDPR as long as this is  the appropriate, necessary and proportionate measure in 
view of ensuring compliance with the GDPR. Contrary to Meta IE’s position, the mere fact that such 
an order may require the controller to procure assistance from  their processor  to comply  is from a 
legal  point  of  view  irrelevant.  Otherwise,  the  effectiveness  of  an  order  to  bring  processing  into 
compliance would depend on the circumstance of whether a processor is involved or not 503.  

240.  The DE SAs also consider that the cessation of the processing could also be based on an order to limit 
processing  in  accordance with Article 58(2)(f)  GDPR, by  limiting it  with regard to the  geographical 
scope. Meta IE argues that a measure with a ‘permanent and irreversible’ effect cannot be based on 
Article 58(2)(f) GDPR 504. The EDPB notes that Article 58(2)(f) GDPR clearly distinguishes  two types of 
limitations or bans  on processing: temporary or definitive. Therefore, an order to cease processing, 
independently  of  the nature of  the cessation, would  clearly be within the powers  of the SAs  under 
Article 58(2)(f) GDPR.  

241.  Finally, with regard to Article 58(2)(g) GDPR, the EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s disagreement with the 
EDPB position  in  Opinion  39/2021 505. However, the EDPB upholds  its  position  that Article 58(2)(g) 
GDPR is  a valid  legal basis  for  a supervisory  authority to  order ex officio  the erasure of  unlawfully 
processed personal data in a situation where such request was not submitted by the data subject  506.  

242.  In any case, as already explained, the scope of the objections is broader, as the FR SA explicitly requests 
an order to bring processing  into compliance and the DE SAs  refer to an order to cease processing, 
which, in their view, could be imposed on the basis of Article 58(2)(d) GDPR. 

243.  Given the wording of the objections  of the FR SA and the DE SAs, it is clear to the EDPB that in both 
cases, the aim is to ensure compliance with the GDPR with regard to the processing of EEA users’ data 

                                                             
502 Schrems II judgment, paragraphs 99-101. See also Judgment of the Court of Justice of 6 November 2003, 
Lindqvist, Case C-101/01, ECLI:EU:C:2003:596, paragraphs 84-90; Schrems I judgment, paragraph 38; Judgment 
of  the  Court of  Justice of  20 May 2003, Österreichischer Rundfunk and Others, C-465/00, C-138/01 and 
C-139/01, ECLI:EU:C:2003:294, paragraph 68; Judgment of the Court of Justice of 13 May 2014, Google Spain 
and Google, C-131/12, ECLI:EU:C:2014:317, paragraph 68 ; Judgment of the Court of Justice of 11 December 
2014, Ryneš, Case C-212/13, ECLI:EU:C:2014:2428, paragraph 29).  
503 Meta IE’s A65 Submission, paragraph 11.4. Additionally, it is entirely consistent with the definition 
of  ‘processor’ and with the description of the relationship between controller and processor enshrined in Art. 
28 GDPR to consider a scenario where the controller asks the processor to perform actions concerning the 
personal data the processor is processing on behalf of the controller. The processor only processes data on 
documented instructions from the controller (Art. 28(3)(a) GDPR). See EDPB Guidelines 07/2020 on the 
concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR, Version 2.1 Adopted on 20 September 2022, in particular 
paragraphs 116 - 121. 
504 Meta IE’s A65 Submission, Annex 2, 1.10 b). 
505 In particular, Meta IE considers that Art. 58(2)(g) GDPR does not provide a legal basis for SAs to order the 
deletion of personal data which has not been  requested previously by a data subject  (Meta IE’s Art. 65 
Submission, paragraphs 11.1 and following). 
506 EDPB Opinion 39/2021, paragraph 28. 

Adopted 

 

66 

unlawfully  transferred and currently stored in the US 507. Therefore, in this particular case, the EDPB 
considers  that Article 58(2)(d)  GDPR provides  for the most  suitable  corrective measure in  order to 
remedy the infringement.  

3.  The appropriateness of an order to bring processing into compliance with Chapter V GDPR, by 

ceasing the unlawful processing, including storage, in the US of personal data of EEA users 
transferred in violation of the GDPR 

244.  In the next paragraphs, the EDPB will assess the appropriateness, necessity and proportionality of the 
order requested by the FR SA and the DE SAs considering the aim pursued, namely, that processing of 
EEA users’ data unlawfully transferred to and currently stored in the US be compliant with the GDPR. 
Such compliance would  be achieved by ceasing the unlawful processing of EEA users’ data in the US, 
including storage, as the DE SAs indicate in their objection.  

Appropriateness 

245.  The EDPB notes that providing for the fate of personal data transferred to a third country, once the 
relevant transfer(s)  is suspended  or terminated is  not a novelty. In fact, as the DE SAs  rightly point 
out 508, the former European Commission’s  SCCs  for transfers between controllers and processors 509 
included  a  clause  detailing the  obligations  of  the  data importer with  regard to  the  personal  data 
already transferred, once the  parties agreed to the termination of  the data-processing services 510. 
This clause has been implemented as an obligation in case of termination of the contract in all modules 
of the updated SCCs  511. Likewise, as underlined by the FR SA, Recital 33 of the Privacy Shield decision 
also  provided  for  the  fate  of  the  transferred  personal  data,  in  the  case  of  organisations  that 
persistently  failed  to  comply  with  the  Principles.  This  is  especially  relevant  in  the  context  of  a 
controller-processor  relationship  where, according to  Article 28(1) GDPR, controllers shall  only  use 
processors providing sufficient guarantees to comply with the GDPR and ensure the protection of the 
rights of data subjects.  

246.  The EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s arguments in this respect 512. The EDPB agrees that the situations 
envisaged  under  Recital 33  Privacy  Shield,  and  Clause  12  and  16(d)  of  the  old  and  current SCCs,  
respectively, are different from the present case, where the suspension  of the transfers will happen 
as a consequence of the order imposed by the IE SA. However, those provisions  clearly highlight that, 
once the data importer does not have any legal basis for the processing of the transferred data and/or 
cannot guarantee compliance with the GDPR, and particularly Chapter V thereof, regardless of the 
reason,  there  is  a  need  to  provide  for  the  fate  of  the  data  already  transferred. This  is  a  logical 

                                                             
507 In the objection, the DE SAs refer several times to bringing processing into compliance, see above, footnote 
495. See also the Objection of the FR SA, paragraphs 21-27.  
508 DE SAs Objection, p. 3-4. 
509 Commission Decision 2010/87, repealed on 26 September 2021 (hereinafter ‘old SCCs’). 
510 See Clause 12 of the old SCCs. 
511 Annex to the Commission Implementing Decision 2021/914, (hereinafter ‘current SCCs’), Clause 16(d). 
512 In particular, Meta IE argues that Recital 33 of the Privacy Shield applied in very specific circumstances of 
persistent failure to comply, which isn’t Meta IE’s case and, therefore, even if Meta IE would have carried out its 
transfers under the Privacy Shield, it wouldn’t have been required to return or delete the personal data (Meta 
IE’s A65 Submissions, Annex 2, 1.4). Further, with respect to the SCCs, Meta IE claims that the return or deletion 
is only triggered when the SCCs are terminated, but not when they are suspended. This, according to Meta IE, 
demonstrates that an order to return or delete the data would be disproportionate (Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, 
Annex 2, 1.17-1.18). 

Adopted 

 

67 

consequence of  Article 44 GDPR, which ensures  the protection of  personal data transferred to third 
countries.  

247.  Taking into account the findings of the IE SA in its Draft Decision, and in particular the infringement of 
the GDPR committed by Meta IE and the risks  identified in the Schrems II judgement and confirmed 
by the IE SA, as well as the elements and reasoning above, the EDPB considers that an order to bring 
processing  operations  into  compliance  with  Chapter  V  GDPR, by  ceasing  the  unlawful  processing, 
including  storage, in  the  US  of  personal  data of  EEA users  transferred in  violation  of  the  GDPR is 
appropriate, in the present  case, in order to remedy non-compliance with the GDPR.  

248.  In the following section, the EDPB will analyse whether the order is also necessary and proportionate 

taking into account the circumstances of the specific case.  

Necessity and proportionality 

249.  In the  Draft Decision,  the IE SA  considers  that an  order  to return or  delete  personal  data already 
transferred ‘would be excessive’ and that it is ‘open to any individual user to exercise the rights’ under 
the GDPR ‘to the fullest extent’ 513. The FR SA and the DE SAs disagree with the IE SA and consider that 
the processing of personal data unlawfully transferred to and currently stored in the US needs to be 
brought into compliance with the GDPR, as explained above, and  refer to some  concrete measures 
that could  achieve such  compliance. In its  submissions,  Meta IE focuses  heavily  on  those  concrete 
measures  and argues that the return of  the  data is  not  appropriate 514  and  the deletion  is  neither 
appropriate, given its ‘significant and permanent adverse effects’ 515, nor necessary, as the dissuasive 
effect is already achieved with the order to suspend  transfers 516, nor  proportionate, in  light of the 
temporary nature of  the order  to suspend  transfers  and  the irreversible  character of the  order to 
delete data 517. In its submissions,  Meta IE does not address other possible means to bring processing 
into compliance 518.  

250.  As a preliminary remark, the EDPB underlines that the possibility  for data subjects  to exercise their 
rights  under  the  GDPR does  not  prevent  SAs  from  adopting  appropriate  corrective  measures  to 
remedy an infringement. The EDPB fundamentally disagrees with a position  that, in practice, would 
entail entrusting the enforcement of  the GDPR to individual  actions  without requiring controllers to 
remedy the  infringements identified.  This  position,  in  the view of  the  EDPB, would undermine  the 
effective application of one  of the two overall objectives  of the GDPR, namely the protection of the 
‘fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons  and in particular their right to the protection of 
personal data’ 519.   

251.  As  the EDPB has  previously  recalled, supervisory  authorities are required  to react appropriately to 
remedy infringements of the GDPR, in accordance with the means provided  to them by Article 58(2) 

                                                             
513 Draft Decision, 9.49. 
514 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, 10.5. 
515 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, 12.7. 
516 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, 12.9. 
517 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, 12.12-12.14. 
518 In fact, Meta IE argues that ‘any order to “cease the processing” [of EEA users’ data in the US] in a manner 
requested by the Hamburg SA and the French SA would in effect be an order to delete all such data’ (Meta IE’s 
A65 Submissions, 10.6). The EDPB  addresses this argument in particular in paragraph 261 of this Binding 
Decision. 
519 Art. 1(2) GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

68 

GDPR 520. Corrective measures should  be  applied  inasmuch  as they are appropriate, necessary  and 
proportionate in accordance with the circumstances of the individual case 521. This highlights the need 
for the corrective measures and any exercise of powers by  supervisory  authorities to be tailored to 
the specific case 522. This is in line with settled case law of the CJEU, according to which measures shall 
not  exceed  the  limits  of  what  is  appropriate  and  necessary  in  order  to  achieve  the  objectives 
legitimately pursued; where there is a choice between several appropriate measures, recourse must 
be had to the least onerous  and the disadvantages caused must not be disproportionate to the aims 
pursued 523.  

252.  The EDPB has consistently referred to the need to ensure, when choosing the appropriate corrective 
measure, that such measure is necessary to enforce the GDPR and achieve the protection of the data 
subjects with regard to the processing of their personal data 524. Thus, when there is a choice between 
several appropriate measures, the principle of proportionality requires that the least onerous measure 
be  chosen  and  that  it  does  not  create  disproportionate  disadvantages  in  relation  to  the  aim 
pursued 525. 

253.  The EDPB takes note of the elements raised by the objections  of the FR SA and DE SAs to justify the 
need  for  imposing  an order  with regard to EEA users’  personal  data unlawfully  transferred to and 
currently stored in the US. In particular, the FR SA refers to the ‘significant risks’ of infringement of the 
privacy of  individuals  due to access to data by US  public  authorities, as identified  in  the Schrems II 
judgement and in the Draft Decision 526. The DE SAs also refer to the risk of ‘disproportionate access 
by US authorities’ and the lack of effective legal remedies, which, in their view, ‘results in a permanent 
high risk  to the fundamental rights and freedoms  of the data subjects  that is  not remedied’ by the 
action envisaged in the Draft Decision 527. 

254.  As mentioned in  paragraph 224 above, in the Draft Decision the IE SA considers  that the ‘very clear 
inadequacies in US law’ undermine the protection afforded to data subjects  and the essence of their 
fundamental right to effective judicial protection is not respected 528. Considering these findings, the 
FR  SA  and  the DE SAs  argue that the processing  of  EEA users’  data unlawfully  transferred to  and 
currently stored in the US needs to be brought into compliance with the GDPR 529. The IE SA does not 

                                                             
520 C-311/18, Schrems II, paragraph 111 and Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 278, Binding Decision 4/2022, 
paragraph 280, and Binding Decision 5/2022, paragraph 305.  
521 Recital 129 GDPR. 
522 Binding Decision1/2021, paragraph 256; Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 278, Binding Decision 4/2022, 
paragraph 280, Binding Decision 5/2022, paragraph 266.  
523 Judgment of the General Court of 12 December 2012, Electrabel v Commission, T-332/09, ECLI:EU:T:2012:672, 
paragraph 279; Judgment of the Court of 13 November 1990, The Queen v Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and 
Food and Secretary of State for Health, ex parte: Fedesa and others, C-331/88, ECLI:EU:C:1990:391, paragraph 
13;  Judgment  of  the  General Court of  26  October 2017, Marine  Harvest,T-704/14, ECLI:EU:T:2017:753, 
paragraph 580; Judgment of the Court of 5 May 1998, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland v 
Commission of the European Communities, C-180/96, ECLI:EU:C:1998:192, paragraph 96; Judgment of the Court 
of 3 September 2009, Prym and Prym Consumer v Commission, C-534/07 P, ECLI:EU:C:2009:505, paragraph 223. 
524 See, for example, Binding Decision 3/2022, paragraph 284, Binding Decision 4/2022, paragraph 286. 
525Case  T-704/14, Marine  Harvest,  paragraph 580, referencing case T-332/09, Electrabel  v  Commission, 
paragraph 279. 
526 FR SA Objection, 23. 
527 DE SAs Objection, p. 2. 
528 Draft Decision, paragraph 9.43 (2), 9.39, 8.41. See also Draft Decision, paragraphs 7.46 - 7.153 addressing 
‘Whether US Law Provides an Essentially Equivalent Level of Protection’. 
529 See above, paragraphs 195-202. 

Adopted 

 

69 

address  the  FR  SA  and  DE  SAs’  arguments and  concerns  on  the  risks  to  which  the  data  already 
transferred to and currently stored in the US are subject.  

255.  In  this  respect,  the  EDPB  considers  that  the  objective  pursued  by  the  order  to  bring  processing 
operations into compliance is a legitimate one. The EDPB takes note of Meta IE’s argument that the 
practical risk  of interference with EEA users  data transferred to the US ‘has always been extremely 
limited’ and, in the case of EEA users’ data previously transferred to the US, the potential risk is ‘even 
more limited’ 530. However, the EDPB is not swayed by this argument, as analysed above 531. 

256.  The EDPB also takes note of Meta IE’s arguments, whereby an order to delete will be unnecessary in 
terms of dissuasiveness  and disproportionate due to the ‘very significant additional irreparable harm’ 
that it would  cause 532.   However, as  stated above, the  deletion of  the  personal  data of  EEA users 
stored in the US is only one of the possible  ways to bring processing into compliance. Whether such 
measure would  also  entail the deletion  of  all personal  data of  EEA users  would  be, in  any  case, a 
consequence  of the architecture of the system  chosen by  Meta IE to provide the Facebook  service. 
Consequently, it is the controller’s responsibility  to identify and implement the appropriate measures 
to bring processing  of  EEA users  data unlawfully  transferred to and currently stored  in the US  into 
compliance with the GDPR.  

257.  The EDPB recalls that, when  assessing  whether a  specific  corrective measure attains the objective 
pursued, several factors need to be taken into consideration, in addition to the dissuasiveness  of the 
measure, namely, its  ability  to  remedy an  infringement  and restore  the level  of  protection of  the 
GDPR. In the present case, the above considerations  demonstrate that an order to bring processing 
operations  into  compliance  with  Chapter  V  GDPR, by  ceasing  the  unlawful  processing,  including 
storage, in the US of personal data of EEA users transferred in violation  of the GDPR, is necessary in 
order to achieve the aim pursued, namely that processing of EEA users’ data unlawfully transferred to 
and currently stored in the US be compliant with the GDPR.  

258.  With  regard  to  the  proportionality  of  the  proposed  order,  Recital  129  GDPR  provides  that 
consideration should  be given to ensuring that measures chosen  to remedy an infringement do not 
create ‘superfluous  costs’ and ‘excessive  inconveniences’  for  the persons  concerned  in light  of the 
objective pursued. In the present case, the EDPB understands the need, on the one hand, to ensure 
that data subjects’  personal  data are  processed  in  accordance with  the  GDPR and  not  subject  to 
disproportionate risks  and, on the other hand, to ensure the integrity of such data and the rights of 
the data subjects.  

259.  The EDPB has previously recalled that the seriousness  of the infringement is an important element to 
take into  account when assessing  the proportionality of  a corrective measure, as  Recital 148 GDPR 
demonstrates 533. In  this  case, the  IE SA  underlines,  following  the Schrems  II judgement, that the 
essence of  the fundamental right to a judicial remedy is  not respected with regard to data subjects 
                                                             
530 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, Annex 2, paragraph 1.3. 
531 See above, paragraph 95. 
532 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, paragraphs 12.2, 12.5, 12.7, 12.9 to -12.13. See also Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, 
Annex 2, paragraph 1.21. 
533 Recital 148 GDPR states, for instance: ‘in a case of a minor infringement or if the fine likely to be imposed 
would constitute a disproportionate burden to a natural person, a reprimand may be issued instead of a fine’. 
The EDPB confirmed that ‘the indications provided by this Recital can be relevant for the imposition of corrective 
measures in general and for the choice of the combination of corrective measures that is appropriate and 
proportionate to the infringement committed’. Binding Decision 1/2021, paragraph 256 and Binding Decision 
4/2022, paragraph 280. 

Adopted 

 

70 

whose  data is  transferred  to  the  US 534.  This  contributes  to  considering  the  breach at  stake  as a 
particularly serious  infringement, as concluded in paragraph 99 of this Binding Decision.  

260.  The  EDPB  takes  note  of  Meta  IE’s  submissions  where  it  argues  that,  given  the  inherent 
interconnectedness  of the Facebook  service’s social  graph, ‘any order to “cease the processing”  of 
Meta Ireland User Data in the US [...] would in effect be an order to delete such data’  535. 

261.  The EDPB considers, however, that the order proposed  by the FR SA and the DE SAs does not impose 
a  specific  manner for  the  controller  to  comply  with  it. On  the  contrary, it gives  enough  room  of 
manoeuvre to Meta IE to identify  the most  suitable manner to implement the order, in accordance 
with its accountability obligations. Taking this into consideration, the EDPB is of the view that this  is 
the least onerous measure possible, as the controller will be the one ultimately making the choice of 
the specific manner to comply with the order. It goes without saying that, when deciding on the means 
to comply  and when implementing the necessary steps to do so, the rights of data subjects must be 
respected, as it stems from Article 24(1) GDPR.  

262.  Therefore, the EDPB is of the view that the proposed order is proportionate to the aim pursued, since 
it is the least onerous measure possible  and it does not create disproportionate disadvantages to the 
aim pursued. 

Conclusion 

263.  On the basis of the conclusions above, the EDPB considers that an order to bring processing operations 
into compliance with Chapter V GDPR, by ceasing the unlawful processing, including  storage, in the 
US of personal  data of EEA users transferred in  violation of  the GDPR is appropriate, necessary and 
proportionate to the circumstances of the case.  

264.  With regard to the period for compliance with such order, the EDPB takes note of the FR SA’s request 
that such  period  shall ‘allow data subjects  to exercise their rights’ 536. The FR SA does  not specify a 
concrete timeframe. The DE SAs consider that the order should  be complied with ‘within a reasonable 
period  of  time,  which  shall  not  exceed  6  months  after  the  termination  of  this  cooperation 
procedure’ 537. 

265.  On  one  hand,  the  EDPB understands  that  compliance  with  the  order  may  require  technical  and 
organisational  adjustments  on  the  side  of  Meta IE. On  the  other  hand,  the  EDPB notes  that the 
compliance period proposed by the DE SAs is considerably longer than the one envisaged in the Draft 
Decision regarding the transfer suspension  order. Therefore, the EDPB considers  that a period  of 6 
months, as requested by  the DE SAs, provides  sufficient time for Meta IE to identify and implement 
the specific measures to bring processing operations into compliance.  

266.  The order to bring processing operations into compliance with Chapter V GDPR should take effect on 

the date of notification of the IE SA’s final decision to Meta IE. 

                                                             
534 Draft Decision, 8.23, 8.27, 8.37, 8.41, 8.45.a, 9.28 and 9.43. 
535 Meta IE’s A65 Submissions, paragraph 10.6. In Meta IE’s Data Transfers Report, Meta IE further explains that 
there’s no ‘discrete repository of a user’s data [...] that can be extracted from the rest of the [user database] and 
moved to a separate physical location’ (paragraph 26). In addition, the Nieh Expert Report states that ‘having an 
entire replica of the Social Graph at or near each data centre is crucial since any partition of the Social Graph 
based on geographic location would be unlikely to satisfy most of the queries that cannot be satisfied directly 
by the caches’ (paragraph 16). 
536 FR SA Objection, 26  
537 DE SAs Objection, p. 6.  

Adopted 

 

71 

267.  On the basis  of the above considerations, the EDPB instructs the IE SA to include in its final decision 
an order for Meta IE to bring processing operations into compliance with Chapter V GDPR, by ceasing 
the  unlawful  processing,  including  storage, in  the US  of  personal  data of  EEA users  transferred in 
violation of the GDPR, within 6 months  following the date of notification of the IE SA’s final decision 
to Meta IE. 

6  BINDING DECISION 

268.  In light of the above, and in accordance with the task of the EDPB under Article 70(1)(t) GDPR to issue 
binding  decisions  pursuant  to  Article 65 GDPR, the  EDPB issues  the  following  Binding  Decision  in 
accordance with Article 65(1)(a) GDPR. 

269.  The EDPB addresses  this  Binding Decision to  the LSA in  this case (the IE SA) and  to all the CSAs,  in 

accordance with Article 65(2) GDPR.  

On the imposition of an administrative fine 

270.  The EDPB decides that the objections of the AT, DE, FR and ES SAs regarding the absence in the Draft 
Decision  of  an administrative fine  for  the infringement by  Meta IE of  Article 46(1) GDPR  meet the 
requirements of Article 4(24) GDPR. 

271.  The  EDPB concludes  that, considering  the  assessment  carried  out  in  this  Binding  Decision  of  the 
relevant factors under Article 83(2) GDPR referred to in the relevant and reasoned objections, namely 
the factors under Article 83(2)(a), (b), (d), (g), and (k)  GDPR, as well as  of the criteria under  Article 
83(1) GDPR, the IE SA’s decision not to impose a fine for the breach by Meta IE of Article 46(1) GDPR 
does not comply with the GDPR.  

272.  More specifically, the EDPB instructs the IE SA to impose an administrative fine on Meta IE on the basis 
of the assessment of the relevant factors in Article 83(2) GDPR as analysed above and summarised as 
follows: 

 

 

 

 

 

the  gravity  of  the  infringement,  taking  into  account  the  particularly  large  scope  of  the 
processing and the very high number of data subjects affected 538, as well as the long duration 
of the infringement, which is still ongoing 539 (Article 83(2)(a) GDPR); 

that Meta IE committed the infringement of Article 46(1) with at least the highest degree of 
negligence (Article 83(2)(b) GDPR) 540; 

that Meta IE bears a high degree of responsibility  (Article 83(2)(d) GDPR) 541; 

that a wide range of categories of personal data are affected by the infringement, including 
personal data covered by Article 9 GDPR (Article 83(2)(g) GDPR) 542;  

that Meta IE’s design of the FB service prevents it from providing this service in the EU/EEA 
without the FB International Transfers - found  to be in breach of the GDPR - which suggests 

                                                             
538 See paragraphs 89 to 96 above.  
539 See paragraphs 97 and 98 above. 
540 See paragraphs 100 to 115 above. 
541 See paragraphs 116 to 125 above. 
542 See paragraphs 128 to 133 above. 

Adopted 

 

72 

that a considerable part of its profits derived from the provision  of the service in the EU arise 
from the breach of the GDPR (Article 83(2)(k) GDPR) 543. 

273.  In light of the above, the EDPB instructs the IE SA to impose an administrative fine on Meta IE for the 
infringement of Article 46(1) GDPR that is in line with the principles of effectiveness, proportionality 
and dissuasiveness  under Article 83(1).  

274.  The EDPB further instructs the IE SA, in determining the amount of the fine, to give due regard to the 
relevant  aggravating factors  under  Article  83(2)  GDPR, namely  the  factors  referred  to  in  Article 
83(2)(a), (b), (g), (d), (k) GDPR, as described and detailed above. Based on the evaluation of the factors 
under Article 83(2)(a), (b)  and (g) GDPR, the EDPB takes the view that the infringement is of a high 
level of seriousness  544, which in accordance with the EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines 545 should 
lead to determining the starting amount for further calculation of the fine at a point between 20 and 
100% of the applicable legal maximum.  

275.  Regarding the turnover of the undertaking, the EDPB instructs the IE SA to take into consideration the 
total turnover of all the entities composing the single undertaking (i.e. consolidated turnover of the 
group headed by Meta Platforms, Inc.) for the financial year preceding the date of the final decision.   

On the imposition of an order regarding transferred personal data 

276.  The EDPB decides that the objections of the DE and FR SAs regarding the absence in the Draft Decision 
of an order with regard to the data unlawfully transferred to and currently stored in the US meet the 
requirements of Article 4(24) GDPR. 

277.  The EDPB concludes that the objections  of  the DE and FR SAs request the imposition  of an order to 
Meta IE to bring processing operations into compliance with Chapter V GDPR, by ceasing the unlawful 
processing, including storage, in the US of personal  data of EEA users transferred in violation of the 
GDPR.   

278.  The  EDPB concludes  that, considering  the  assessment  carried out  in  this  Binding  Decision  on  the 
appropriateness, necessity and proportionality of such an order, the IE SA’s decision not to impose an 
order with regard to the EEA users’ data unlawfully transferred to and currently stored in the US does 
not comply with the GDPR.  

279.  In light of the above, the EDPB instructs the IE SA to include in its final decision  an order for Meta IE 
to  bring  processing  operations  into  compliance  with  Chapter  V  GDPR,  by  ceasing  the  unlawful 
processing, including storage, in the US of personal  data of EEA users transferred in violation of the 
GDPR, within 6 months following the date of notification of the IE SA’s final decision  to Meta IE. 

7  FINAL REMARKS 

280.  This Binding Decision is addressed to the IE SA and the CSAs. The IE SA shall adopt its final decision on 

the basis of this Binding Decision pursuant to Article 65(6) GDPR. 

                                                             
543 See paragraphs 137 to 140 above. 
544 See EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 61. 
545 EDPB Guidelines on calculation of fines, paragraph 61, third indent. 

Adopted 

 

73 

281.  The EDPB reiterates that its current decision is without any prejudice  to any assessments  the EDPB 
may be called upon to make in other cases, including  with the same parties, taking into account the 
contents of the relevant draft decision and the objections raised by the CSAs. 

282.  According to  Article 65(6) GDPR, the IE SA shall  adopt  its final  decision  on  the basis  of  the Binding 
Decision without undue delay and at the latest by one month after the Board has notified its Binding 
Decision.  

283.  The IE SA shall inform the Board of the date when its final decision is notified to the controller 546. This 
Binding Decision will be made public pursuant to Article 65(5) GDPR without delay after the IE SA has 
notified its final decision  to the controller 547. 

284.  The IE SA will communicate its final decision to the Board 548. Pursuant to Article 70(1)(y) GDPR, the IE 
SA’s final decision  communicated to the EDPB will be included  in the register of decisions  that have 
been subject to the consistency mechanism. 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

 

 

                                                             
546 Art. 65(6) GDPR.  
547 Art. 65(5) and (6) GDPR.  
548 Art. 60(7) GDPR.  

Adopted 

 

74 

