 

 

  

Information Governance Manager   
University Hospitals Bristol and Weston NHS Foundation Trust   
Trust Headquarters   
Marlborough Street   
Bristol   
BN1 3NU   
 
By email only to:
 
 
7 March 2023 
 
Dear 
 
Case Reference Number: INV/0609/2021   

 

 

Previous Case Reference Number: IC-96299-J8N9  

 
I write to inform you that the ICO has now completed its investigation into the 
loss of access to patient records held on an Electronic Document Viewing System 
by University Hospital Bristol and Weston NHS Foundation Trust (“the Trust”). 
 
In summary, it is my understanding that patient records were saved on to an 
Electronic Document Viewing System. The Trust decided to terminate the use of 
this system and the records on it were downloaded prior to allowing the system 
licence to expire. However this download was not fully successful but this was not 
investigated prior to the licence expiry and therefore a number of records 
became inaccessible and some permanently lost. 
 
This case has been considered under the United Kingdom General Data Protection 
Regulation (the UK GDPR) due to the nature of the processing involved.  
 
Our consideration of this case 
 
I have investigated whether the Trust has complied with the requirements of the 
data protection legislation. 
 
In the course of my investigation I have noted that the planning of care of one 
patient was impacted due to the inaccessibility of patient records although there 
was no actual harm to the patient care. There was an element of human error 
and/or technological failure which contributed to this incident. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

We have also considered and welcome the remedial steps taken by the Trust in 
light of this incident. In particular that the Trust has drafted an Information Asset 
Management policy to include sections on decommissioning information assets. It 
is also noted that the Trust has developed a new decommissioning process which 
will include investigations into anomalies in downloads prior to allowing licenses 
to expire. 
 
However, after careful consideration and based on the information provided, we 
have decided to issue the Trust with a reprimand in accordance with Article 58 of 
the UK GDPR. 
 
Details of reprimand 
 
The reprimand has been issued to the Trust in respect of the following 
infringements of the UK GDPR: 

•  Article 5(1)(f) which states that “Personal data shall be: (f) processed in a 

manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including 
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against 
accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or 
organisational measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’).” 
 

•  Article 24(1) which states that “Taking into account the nature, scope, 

context and purposes of processing as well as the risks of varying likelihood 
and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the controller 
shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing is performed in 
accordance with this Regulation. Those measures shall be reviewed and 
updated where necessary.” 
 

•  Article 24(2) which states that “Where proportionate in relation to 

processing activities, the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall include 
the implementation of appropriate data protection policies by the 
controller.” 

 
In particular, the Trust has failed to ensure an appropriate level of security of 
personal data, resulting in the inaccessibility of personal data relating to 1159 
data subjects. 1155 data subjects records were inaccessible from 19 January 
2020 until 12 October 2021, whilst partial records of 4 patients amounting to 115 

 

2 

 

 
 

pages were permanently deleted. It is also noted that the Trust did not have an 
appropriate decommissioning policy in place at the time of the breach.  
 
It has been noted that there was a lack of policy or procedure in place to ensure 
the appropriate oversight was in place for the personal data concerned. The 
failure to do so has meant that the licence expired and rendered personal data 
either inaccessible or permanently deleted. 
 
Furthermore, the inaccessibility of the personal data has meant a detrimental 
effect on one patient’s care, and there is the potential that there could be further 
impacts in the future. 
 
In conclusion, a reprimand is being issued due to infringements noted in respect 
of Article 5(1)(f), Article 24(1) and Article 24(2) of the UK GDPR. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that the Trust could take certain steps to 
improve its compliance with Article 5 (1)(f), Article 24(1) and Article 24(2) of the 
UK GDPR. In particular: 
 

 

1.  Ensure that the collective learnings from data breaches are shared across 

the whole Trust, particularly if the type of processing is common across 
areas. 
 

2.  Ensure that a decommissioning policy is drafted, implemented and 

circulated to all relevant staff. 
 

3.  Ensure that the decommissioning policy includes a requirement to complete 

an adequate risk assessment prior to decommissioning a system or 
allowing a licence to expire. 

4.  Ensure that the decommissioning policy includes a requirement to review 
any extract of data to ensure that it is complete and accurate before any 
system is decommissioned or a licence is allowed to expire.  
 

5.  Ensure that the decommissioning policy allows for any discrepancies that 

are found instigating an immediate risk assessment and investigation. 
 

3 

 

 

 

 
 

6.  Ensure that the decommissioning policy allows for any discrepancies that 

are found to be resolved before any system is decommissioned or a licence 
is allowed to expire. 
 

7.  Ensure that any new or updated policies or procedures are regularly 

circulated to staff. 
 

8.  Ensure that all case management systems are regularly risk assessed. 

 
We understand that measures 7 and 8 have already been carried out. In order to 
ensure that the remaining measures have been carried out, please provide an 
update with regards to your progress against the measures by 14 April 2023. 
 
Whilst the above measures are suggestions, I would like to point out that if 
further information relating to this subject comes to light, or if any further 
incidents or complaints are reported to us, we will revisit this matter and further 
formal regulatory action may be considered as a result.  
 
Further information about compliance with the data protection legislation which is 
relevant to this case can be found at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/ 
 
We actively publicise our regulatory activity and outcomes, as this helps us to 
achieve our strategic aims in upholding information rights in the public interest. 
We may publish information about cases reported to us, for example where we 
think there is an opportunity for other organisations to learn or where the case 
highlights a risk or novel issue. 
 
Therefore, we may publish the outcome of this investigation to publicise our 
regulatory authority and new powers under the UK GDPR. We will publish 
information in accordance with our Communicating Regulatory and Enforcement 
Activity Policy, which is available online at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/media/about-the-
ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico_enforcement_communications_policy.pdf  
 
Please let us know if you have any concerns about this. 
 
Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation.  
 
We now consider the matter closed. 

 

4 

 

 
 

 
Yours sincerely 
 

 

 

Investigation Officer - Civil Investigations 
Regulatory Supervision Service 
The Information Commissioner’s Office 

 
Please note that we are often asked for copies of the correspondence we 
exchange with third parties. We are subject to all of the laws we deal with, 
including the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, the Data 
Protection Act 2018 and the Freedom of Information Act 2000. You can read 
about these on our website (www.ico.org.uk).  
 
The ICO publishes basic details about the complaints, investigations and self-
reported data breaches it handles. These details include the name of the 
organisation concerned, the dates that we opened and closed the case, and the 
outcome. Examples of published data sets can be found at this link 
(https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/our-information/complaints-and-concerns-data-
sets/).  
 
We do not include personal data in the published datasets and will anonymise the 
names of sole traders etc prior to publication. We also do not publish cases 
concerning domestic CCTV complaints and may not publish certain other cases if 
we feel it is not appropriate to do so in the circumstances.  
 
If you wish to raise an objection to us publishing a case in the datasets, whether 
or not we have published it yet, please contact us explaining your reasons for 
this at icoaccessinformation@ico.org.uk .  
 
Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is 
confidential. You should also say why so that we can take that into consideration. 
However, please note that we will only withhold information where there is good 
reason to do so. 
 
For information about what we do with personal data see our privacy notice at 
www.ico.org.uk/privacy-notice 
 
 

 

5 

