Decision

Diary no

2020-03-10

DI-2018-9274

Google LLC
Amphitheater Parkway, Mountain
View, CA 94043
United States

Supervision according to the EU data protection regulation
2016/679 - Google's handling of requests
on removal from its search services
Table of Contents
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision ........................................2
1 Statement of the supervisory matter .............................4
1.1 General ................................................... ................................................ ........4
1.2 The content of previous decisions as far as currently relevant ........................................... ..6
1.2.1 Order regarding complaints 2 and 8 ......................................... ...6
1.2.2 Obligation to investigate the circumstances of a request ......................7
1.2.3 Communication to webmasters that removal has taken place..........8

2 Justification of decision...................................8
2.1 Starting points for the assessment of followed-up complaints .......................8
2.2 Follow-up of complaints 2 ........................................... ............................9
2.2.1 What has come to light during the processing ............................9
2.2.2 The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment ............................................. ..............11
2.3 Follow-up of complaints 8............................................. ............................12
2.3.1 What has come to light during the processing ...........................12
2.3.2 The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment............................................. ..............13
2.4 Communication to webmasters that search hits have been removed
and information about this to individuals............................................. ...............14
2.4.1 What has come to light during the processing............................14

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

2.4.2 The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment ............................................. .............15

3 Choice of intervention ..............................................23
3.1 Possible intervention measures ............................................... ........................23
3.2 Injunction ................................................ ..............................................24
3.3 Circumstances of importance for whether a penalty fee is to be imposed.........25
3.3.1 What Google has stated ........................................... ..............................25
3.3.2 Assessment of the violation regarding complaint 2 ..........................25
3.3.3 Assessment of the violation regarding complaint 8..........................26
3.3.4 Assessment of the violation regarding notification to
webmasters and information to individuals ............................................27
3.3.5 Penalty fees must be imposed............................................. .................28
3.4 Determining the amount of the penalty fee ..........................................28
3.4.1 General provisions................................................ ........................28
3.4.2 The amount to which penalty fees can be determined....................29
3.4.3 Determining the amount of the penalty fee ....................................30
3.5 Appendices................................................ ................................................ .......30

4 How to appeal ........................................31

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
1. The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that Google LLC (Google) has not taken
measures so that a certain search hit in complaint 2 of the Data Inspectorate previously
supervisory decision with diary number 1013-2015 does not appear in searches on
the complainant's name using Google's search services which can be done from
Sweden during the period from 25 May 2018 to 12 October 2018. Google has
through this processed personal data in violation of


Article 9 of the Data Protection Regulation1 by having processed sensitive data
personal data consisting of data on ethnicity, religion

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
1

2 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

beliefs, mental health and sex life, without having for the treatment
a valid exception to the prohibition to treat sensitive
personal data.


Article 10 of the Data Protection Regulation by having processed
personal data relating to violations of the law consisting of information about
prosecution and preliminary investigation without the treatment having been permitted.



Article 17 of the Data Protection Regulation by not unnecessarily
delay in addressing the appellant's removal request.

2. The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that Google has not taken measures so that
a certain search hit in complaint 8 of the Data Inspectorate's previous supervisory decision with
diary number 1013-2015 does not appear in searches on the appellant's name with
using Google's search services which can be done from Sweden during the period
25 May 2018 to 11 June 2018. Google has hereby processed
personal data in violation of


Article 10 of the Data Protection Regulation by having processed
personal data relating to violations of the law consisting of information about
criminal charges and preliminary investigation without the treatment
been allowed.



Article 17 of the Data Protection Regulation by not unnecessarily
delay in addressing the appellant's removal request.

3. The Danish Data Protection Authority states that Google since 25 May 2018
regularly inform webmasters of websites when the company has taken
remove a web address as a result of a removal request. Google
processes through this personal data in violation of


Article 5.1 b of the data protection regulation in that the procedure constitutes a
personal data processing that is incompatible with the original
purpose for which the data was collected.



Article 6 of the Data Protection Regulation by not having a legal
basis for the treatment.

4. The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that Google since 25 May 2018 in its
Web removal request form informs individuals about and
requires that they agree that Google may inform them

free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).

3 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

Webmasters of such URLs are removed from the search results to
following the requests of the individuals. Google processes through this
personal data in violation of


article 5.1 a in that the procedure is suitable to persuade individuals to
refrain from exercising their right to request removal.

5. The Data Inspection Authority decides with the support of ch. 6. Section 3 of the Data Protection Act2 and
articles 58.2 and 83 of the data protection regulation that Google must pay a
administrative sanction fee of 75,000,000 (seventy-five million) kroner.
6. Datainspektionen orders with the support of article 58.2 d i
data protection regulation Google that, as far as requests for removal are concerned
of display of search results for searches on individual names using
Google search services that can be done from Sweden,


stop informing webmasters of URLs when Google
has granted a request except in cases where the individual himself has requested
the.



stop showing the text “If URLs are removed from our
search results as a result of your request, we may provide information to them
webmasters of the removed URLs” in their web form
for removal requests or provide similar information to
individuals unless it is clear that webmasters are only informed about
that a request has been granted if the individual has requested it.

1 Description of the supervisory matter
1.1 General
In May 2015, the Data Inspectorate started with the support of the Personal Data Act
(1998:204) and the data protection directive3 a supervisory case with diary number
1013-2015 (the former case) against Google Inc. whose legal successor is
Google LLC (Google or the Company). The review was about how Google handles
requests from natural persons that certain search results should not be displayed at

The Act (2018:218) with supplementary provisions to the EU's data protection regulation.
Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of
such information.
2
3

4 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

searches of their name on the company's search services (request for removal).
The review took place in the light of the judgment which established that individuals have the right
to have a request for removal granted in some cases4 and
the data protection authorities' guidelines for interpretation of the judgment (WP225 guidelines)5 and this right (the right to erasure).
In addition to Google's handling of removal requests in general included in
the review also included 13 complaints that came to the Data Inspectorate from
individuals who believed that the company wrongly rejected their respective requests
about removal. The review was concluded by decision of 2 May 2017
(the previous decision). In the decision, the Swedish Data Protection Authority recommended that Google at the latest
on 2 August 2017 take action regarding five of the complaints (no. 2, 4, 5, 8
and 9) in such a way that the specified search results should not be displayed in searches on
the names of the complainants.6 The Swedish Data Protection Authority also made recommendations
on how such requests should be handled. Google appealed the injunction
regarding complaint No. 8. The appeal was rejected on May 2, 2018 in this part
and entered into force on 24 May 2018.7
On 25 May 2018, the data protection regulation began to be applied.
In light of tips from the public that Google had not complied with the decision
and the verdict, the Data Inspectorate found during an inspection on June 8, 2018 that
search results from complaints #2 and #8 were still displayed. Against this background
this supervisory matter was initiated.

Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 13 May 2014, Google Spain and Google, C-131/12.
Article 29 Working Party on Data Protection, “Guidelines on the enforcement of the judgment
[Google Spain and Google]” of 26 November 2014 (WP 225). The working group has in and
with the entry into force of the data protection regulation replaced by the European Data Protection Board
(EDPB) (see Articles 68 and 94.2 of the Data Protection Regulation).
6 The decision in its wording after the decision on reconsideration of 14 July 2017. References to
the decision in the following refers to the decision in this wording.
7 The Administrative Court in Stockholm judgment of 2 May 2018 in case no. 16590-17.
Datainspektionen appealed the administrative court's judgment in that part
The Swedish Data Protection Authority against, i.e. rescission of the injunction “in so far as purports to remove
4
5

search results that may appear in searches of the data subject's name using Google
LLC's search services that can be done from countries other than Sweden". The Court of Appeal decided
on 3 December 2018 in case no. 4635-18 not to issue leave to appeal, which was determined
by the Supreme Administrative Court's decision on 11 September 2019 in case no. 6887-18.

5 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

The supervision has taken place through an exchange of letters. The review concerns how Google has
handled the complainants' requests and the Data Inspectorate's orders
regarding complaints 2 and 8 in the previous decision. Against the background of what
has come to light, the Data Inspectorate has also followed up on certain issues which also
were highlighted in the recommendations in the decision. This refers to how Google investigates
requests for removal as well as Google's routine of regularly informing
webmasters of affected URLs when a request has been granted and
Google's information to individuals about this in the Google web form for
request for removal.
1.2 The content of previous decisions as far as relevant
1.2.1 Injunction regarding complaints 2 and 8
In the previous decision, the Swedish Data Protection Authority ruled that Google “processes
personal data in violation of § 5 a, second paragraph of the Personal Data Act when displayed
of search hits after searching the appellant's name in Google's search services regarding
the search results referred to in


complaint 2 (Google no. 0-5877000003906)



[…] [and]



complaint 8 (Google no. 1-8544000003955), the search hit linking to a
article on the website www.sydsvenskan.se.”

The Swedish Data Protection Authority instructed Google to "take measures so that the aforementioned
the search results do not appear in searches on the appellant's name using
Google's search services that can be done from Sweden" and stated that "[t]he actions
must be completed no later than August 2, 2017.”
The Data Inspectorate stated in the reasons for the previous decision regarding complaints
2 that the public interest in having access to the information about the appellant i
the current discussion thread via search in Google search services does not
justify the privacy violations that the processing entails. This against
background of the fact that the current discussion thread constitutes an extensive one
survey of the appellant and reports quite comprehensively and at the highest
private information about the complainant's ethnicity, religious beliefs, mental
health, sexual preferences, violations of the law (information about charges and
preliminary investigation), family and address. Google was thus ordered to cease
with the treatment. The company did not appeal the decision.

6 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

The Data Inspectorate stated in the reasons for the previous decision regarding complaints
8 that the Swedish Data Protection Authority limited its review to the search result that leads
to an article published on Sydsvenskan's website with information about crime
which the appellant is alleged to have committed (details of criminal charges and
ongoing preliminary investigation). The Swedish Data Protection Authority assessed that such data
may be considered particularly sensitive to privacy and instructed Google to cease
the treatment. The company appealed the decision to the administrative court as in the judgment
of 2 May 2018 agreed with the Data Inspection Authority's assessment and determined
the decision.8
1.2.2 Duty to investigate the circumstances of a request
In the previous decision, the Swedish Data Protection Authority stated essentially the following (see
pp. 11–14). There are no formal requirements for a request for correction according to
the data protection directive or the personal data act. Regarding the handling of
a request can, even if the provision in Section 28 of the Personal Data Act is not
directly applicable in this case, the preparatory works to that provision serve as
guidance. According to these, it is sufficient that it appears from a request that
the data subject is dissatisfied with the processing in any particular respect and
wants correction to be made. If such a request is made, it should
personal data controller urgently investigate the information provided
the remarks are justified and, if so, take corrective action as soon as possible.
The scope of the investigation may depend on the remarks that it
registrants have produced. It should primarily be up to the individual to indicate
sufficient information for Google to be able to process his request.
Information about which search result is intended with a request should be preferred
is identified by specifying the web address of the web page as the search hit
links to. In cases where the individual refers to the name of a website, a
blog or similar and it is possible to identify the web page and it
information on the web page in question, it should be Google's responsibility to take action
to identify the search hit to which the request refers. The same applies to it
individual has mistaken the top-level domain in the web address, for example .se i
instead of .com and it is clear from, among other things, the search result which search hit
as the individual intends. If Google, despite investigative measures taken,
assesses that it is not possible to identify the search result as the individual
has requested Google to remove or if Google does not accept it individually

8

The administrative court in Stockholm's judgment of 2 May 2018 in case no. 16590-17, p. 12 par. 2.

7 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

information about facts, the individual should be informed about this and given
opportunity to supplement their information.
Against this background, the Swedish Data Protection Authority recommended Google to take action
necessary steps to investigate an unclear and incomplete request to
search hits to be removed.
1.2.3 Communication to the webmaster that removal has taken place
In the previous decision, the Data Inspectorate stated essentially the following (s.
19-20). When Google removes a search result, the company sends another message
the webmaster whose website is affected if he has registered with
Google service Webmaster Tools. In the complaints that have been reviewed occur
usually only one or a few names on the web pages that the search hits
links to. It should therefore be relatively easy for the webmaster to
determine who has requested removal. Google must therefore assume that
information about which web pages are affected by a removal indirectly
involves a processing of personal data.
Against this background, the Swedish Data Protection Authority recommended that Google only
send information to webmasters when it is clear that such information
does not involve a violation of the personal integrity of the data subjects.

2 Justification of decision
2.1 Starting points for the assessment of followed-up complaints
A search engine provider must within the framework of its responsibility, its authority and
its possibilities to ensure that the processing of personal data i
the business meets the requirements of the data protection rules, because the business
in a significant way can affect fundamental rights regarding
the privacy and protection of personal data of the persons concerned.9
The peculiarities of a search engine's business10 do not make it exempt
the prohibitions and restrictions on the processing of sensitive data and

Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 13 May 2014, Google Spain and Google, C-131/12, paragraph 38
and 83.
10 Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 13 May 2014, Google Spain and Google, C-131/12, paragraph 41.
9

8 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

criminal data, but these apply when the search engine has received a request
on removal.11
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that if a personal data controller has taken
receives a request for removal from a data subject, but does not remove
the data without undue delay or rejects the request on incorrect grounds,
the continued processing takes place in violation of the data protection regulation. When it
is the question of search engine services, this calls for prompt handling
particularly valid because the dissemination of personal data risks becoming
very extensive and an alternative attitude would erode the individual
opportunities to make use of their rights and the protection of the personal
integrity.
In the previous decision, the Data Protection Authority has already assessed the outcome of
the balance in complaints 2 and 8 and then found that the processing took place in violation
with the Personal Data Act and the Data Protection Directive. Current legislation
(Data Protection Regulation) and the practices that have followed do not
there is reason to make a new assessment in this regard.
In previous inspections, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has identified deficiencies in the handling of
complaints 2 and 8. Shortcomings have existed since the Data Protection Authority's decision won
come into force in each part, or when measures were last to be implemented, which
was before the data protection regulation came into force on 25 May 2018.
The regulation involves enhanced rights for individuals and provides
The Data Inspectorate has significantly more powerful powers. Starting point
for the Data Inspectorate's assessment regarding continued violations is taken
therefore in the date of implementation of the regulation, that is, May 25
2018.
2.2 Follow-up of complaints 2
2.2.1 What has come to light during the processing
The Data Inspectorate found during a control search on 8 June 2018 of complaint 2 that
the search result specified in the decision "is shown as the first search result in the search result
in a search performed on October 10, 2016” (search hit 2) was still displayed at
search on the complainant's name and therefore requested Google to comment.

11

The judgment of the European Court of Justice of 24 September 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17, paragraphs 43-47.

9 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

Google stated in response on June 15, 2018 that the company regarding complaint 2 per
on May 18, 2017 had fixed a certain URL (search hit 1).
The Swedish Data Protection Authority stated in a letter on 9 July 2018 to Google i
mainly the following. From the documents in the previous case it appears that the
search hit described in the reasons for the previous decision was search hit 2.
The URLs in search hit 1 and 2 are identical except that the latter has two
extra character at the end ("p2") which is short for "page two" in one
discussion thread on a forum. The web address in search hit 1 identifies both
the entire discussion thread and its first page. The Swedish Data Protection Authority pointed out that
there may be reason to believe that a request identifying such
web address, which thus both identifies the entire discussion thread and constitutes
its first page, not only includes search hits that lead to the first page but
also to subsequent pages, such as search hit 2. This is especially true if
individuals provide information that speaks in this direction, such as the appellant
may be deemed to have done by in addition to what is stated in
the form make it clear that "the entire thread specified" offends the complainant
integrity (the original request).12 If Google nevertheless did not consider itself
obliged to fix search hit 2, the Swedish Data Protection Authority reminded of the company's
investigation and information obligation in the event of an unclear or incomplete
request.
Google stated the following in its response on August 30, 2018 to the Swedish Data Protection Authority
request to report on whether measures should be taken regarding search hit 2
and how similar situations are handled. Google took action on two
other pages in the current thread in 2014 and another page in August 2018
in connection with the Data Inspectorate's inquiry. Google will not take
measures regarding search hit 2, since the appellant did not specifically request it. One
such request “is a personal right” which “can only be exercised by it
registered" and Google "therefore respects the extent that it
data subject has given their request”. According to Google, this is supported in the WP225 guidelines as it states that the registered must "identify the specific
the web addresses".13 The obligation to investigate or inform has not arisen.

12
13

The previous case, file attachment 1 attachment 2 p. 2.
The WP225 guidelines, p. 14 (Datainspektionen's translation).

1 0 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

The complainant contacted the Swedish Data Protection Authority on 9 October 2018 regarding
search hit 2 and then received information about the company's approach and the opportunity
to make a new request alongside the current examination of it
original request, which the appellant did on October 12, 2018 (the new
request).
Google stated the following in its response on 25 October 2018 to the Swedish Data Protection Authority
request to explain its assessment of the new request. Google
fixed search hit 2 on October 12, 2018 due to the fact that the complainant
made the new request. Google removed the search result because the content on
the web page is largely the same as on the web pages previously taken
away and especially since the website does not contain information that the appellant
has been freed.
2.2.2 The Data Inspection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the original request in complaint 2
covered search hit 2. This because the appellant in a sufficient manner
identified it by partly specifying the web address that both identifies
the entire discussion thread and its first page (search hit 1) in the web form, partly
refer to the entire thread in its complement.
Additionally, a discussion thread must be judged as a whole and cannot
which Google has done is judged solely on the basis of the information which
appears on the page to which a search result links. As Svea Court of Appeal
established, this follows from the fact that for an internet user who is linked to a
page in a discussion thread, it is clear that it does not only include the posts
on that page and that it is not possible based on the posts on one page alone
review the content of the discussion. 14
Because Google has thus not corrected the request, but the search result continued
has been shown until October 12, 2018, when the appellant made a new request
of removal, Google has not acted upon the request without undue delay in
the meaning referred to in Article 17.1 of the Data Protection Regulation. Google has
thereby processed personal data in violation of Article 17 i
data protection regulation.

Svea Court of Appeal's judgment of 6 October 2017 in case no. FT 494-17, p. 4 with agreement in
the sub-instance's assessment (p. 16 f.).
14

1 1 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

As can be seen from the previous decision processed at the web address which
the search result leads to sensitive personal data and criminal information about
appellant within the meaning of Articles 9 and 10 i
data protection regulation. During the current period, i.e. the 25
May to October 12, 2018, Google is responsible for the reference to
the URL and in particular for the link to appear in the search result as
presented to Internet users who search for the appellant's name.15 Something
support for processing such data according to the data protection regulation has
did not exist. Google has thus processed personal data in violation of
article 9 and 10 of the data protection regulation.
Furthermore, the Data Inspectorate states that the injunction in the previous decision
regarding complaint 2 included search hit 2. What Google has stated that
the order must be interpreted in the light of the reasons for the decision does not change it
assessment. It is not clear from the wording of the decision that the injunction
was limited to certain search hits in Complaint 2, which it did for
for example complaints 8 and 9 (see section 1.2.1 above). It is further clear from
the reasons for the decision that search hit 2 was the search hit shown when
the search result was checked during processing and therefore what
The Swedish Data Protection Authority assessed in the decision.16 Google could have easily discovered
this by checking the extent of the request and the search results which
was shown when the company took measures to comply with the injunction in May 2017.
Because Google took action regarding search hit 2 only on October 12th
2018, that is, after the date specified in the order in the earlier
decision, Google has failed to comply with an order that
Data inspectorate announced with the support of Section 45 of the Personal Data Act and
the data protection directive.
2.3 Follow-up of complaints 8
2.3.1 What has come to light during the processing
The Swedish Data Protection Authority found during a control search on 8 June 2018 that the search hit
from complaint no. 8 (search hit 1) was still displayed. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
pointed this out in a letter to Google and referred to the administrative court

15
16

The judgment of the European Court of Justice of 24 September 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17, paragraph 46.
See the previous decision, p. 23.

1 2 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

judgment of May 2, 2018, which upheld the injunction. It was further pointed out that
according to information from the court, the judgment had been served on Google on the same day as it
was announced and thus entered into force on 24 May 2018.
Google contacted the Swedish Data Protection Authority on June 11, 2018. Google then stated that
the company was only served with the judgment on 23 May 2018 and that it would therefore win
take effect on June 14, 2018, and that Google was still considering the ruling
would be appealed. The Data Inspectorate then clarified that the Data Inspectorate had
checked in particular with the administrative court that the information that the court
left about the day of service was not a misunderstanding, but reminded Google
about the possibility of obtaining a judicial review of whether the judgment has gained legal force. 17
Google stated in a letter on 15 June 2018 that the company on 11 June 2018
decided not to appeal the verdict and therefore that day had remedied
search hit 1. In support of the fact that service must have taken place on 23 May 2018 submitted
Google a service receipt signed and dated by the company's
agent.
In addition, an exchange of letters has taken place regarding a search result with identical content
and which leads to the same article as search hit 1 on the same website but
with a different web address (search hit 2). According to Google, that search hit existed
not when the request to remove search hit 1 was made. However, Google has
granted a request to remove search hit 2 on February 13, 2019 after
a new request was received from the complainant on February 11, 2019. Google considered that
that request could be granted without any new balancing of interests being necessary
made because the content of the web page was identical to the web page of
search hit 1.
2.3.2 The Data Inspection Authority's assessment
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that Google has not addressed the request in
complaint 8 of the previous decision so that search result 1 is not displayed during the period
May 25, 2018 to June 11, 2018. Considering that the Danish Data Protection Authority
before that in its decision had made it clear that the request would be granted, which
had also been confirmed by the administrative court in a judgment that Google according to its own
information had in any case been served on May 23, 2018, Google cannot be considered to have
dealt with the request without undue delay in the sense referred to in Article 17.1 i

17

File appendix 7 and 10–12.

1 3 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

data protection regulation. Google has thus processed personal data in
contrary to Article 17 of the Data Protection Regulation.
As can be seen from the previous decision processed at the web address which
the search result leads to criminal information about the appellant in the sense referred to in
Article 10 of the Data Protection Regulation. During the current period, that is
say May 25 to June 11, 2018, Google is responsible for the reference to
the web page and in particular for the link to appear in the search result as
presented to Internet users who search for the appellant's name.18 Something
support for processing such data according to the data protection regulation has
did not exist. Google has thus processed personal data in violation of
Article 10 of the Data Protection Regulation.
Furthermore, the Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that Google has not shown that the company has complied
the injunction in the previous decision regarding complaint 8 within that time limit
which was stated in the decision, which through the company's appeal may be considered to have been
when the injunction became final. The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that this was
on May 24, 2018, which is not changed by the circumstances and the evidence
as Google has invoked. Google has thereby failed to comply
an order issued by the Data Protection Authority based on section 45
the Personal Data Act and the Data Protection Directive.
Regarding search hit 2, the Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that it was not covered
the original request or the Swedish Data Protection Authority's order because it
according to Google's information did not exist when the request was made.
2.4 Communication to webmasters that search hits have been removed
and information about this to individuals
2.4.1 What has come to light during the processing
If Google grants a request for removal, it is Google's practice to
notify the webmaster (that is, someone who subscribes to Google's
service "Search Console" formerly "Webmaster Tools") about which URL
which has been removed and that this was due to a request for
removing.

18

The judgment of the European Court of Justice of 24 September 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17, paragraph 46.

1 4 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

Google's web form for requesting removal contains the text “[o]m
URLs are removed from our search results as a result of your request we can provide
information to the webmasters of the removed URLs”. IN
connection to the text, the individual is encouraged to read through the information
and tick a checkbox that they agree to such treatment.19
Google has stated that 5,690 URLs have been removed following requests
from Sweden during the period 25 May 2018 to 11 February 2019.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can thereby establish that information has been provided to
webmasters in a large number of cases.
Google has further essentially stated the following. First is
Datainspektionen is not the competent supervisory authority regarding Google's routine to
send such messages. Second, such messages are not
Processing of personal data. Thirdly, such treatment is not in
violation of the data protection regulation. This is because the messages are in
compliance with the principle of purpose limitation according to Article
5.1.b, because the purpose is to facilitate the right to be forgotten. Furthermore, have
the processing a legal basis, because Google has a legitimate interest
to process the data to extend the impact of the right to be forgotten
as well as to inform the webmaster in its capacity as concerned
stakeholder. Fourth, Google is in accordance with the principle of proportionality
obliged to balance the right to be forgotten against speech and
freedom of information. Fifth, the routine is an appropriate and
proportionate measure and industry practice.
2.4.2 The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
2.4.2.1 The Swedish Data Protection Authority is authorized to supervise the issue

The Data Inspectorate's authority follows from the main rule that each
supervisory authority is competent within the territory of its own Member State
(Article 55.1 of the Data Protection Regulation). The current treatment is one stage
in Google's business as a search engine provider20 and is linked to it
obligation arising from such activities to ensure that the activities

File appendix 27.2, pp. 2-3.
See the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 13 May 2014, Google Spain and Google, C-131/12,
paragraph 41 and judgment of 24 September 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17 point 35.
19
20

1 5 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

meets the requirements of the data protection regulation.21 Google has in a letter of 12
December 2018 to the data protection authorities indicated that it is Google (it
i.e. Google LLC based in the United States) that determines the purposes
and the means for that treatment and that this is not affected by them
organizational changes that the company made on January 22, 2019.22 They
organizational changes referred to are that Google from now on
date has a principal place of business in Ireland in respect of parts of
its business. A principal place of business shall have the authority to
make decisions regarding the purposes and means of the current processing
(Article 4.16 and Recital 36). Google has not shown that Google Ireland has such
powers in relation to search engine operations. The Swedish Data Protection Authority believes
because the single contact point mechanism (Articles 56 and 60) does not
is applicable and that Datainspektionen is thus the competent supervisory authority i
the case.
2.4.2.2 The messages constitute personal data processing

The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that the messages in question are personal data
and that the fact that Google sends the messages means that Google
processes personal data for the following reasons. As can be seen from the expression “each
information" in the definition of the concept of personal data (Article 4.1) shall
the concept is given a broad meaning. It includes both objective and
subjective information if it "refers" to a specific person, which is the case if
they due to their content, purpose or effect are linked to a person. 23
The information that Google has granted a search hit to a certain web address
to be removed refers to a person, especially since use of the task
affects the person's rights and interests, for example by being able to
be used to defeat the purpose of the request.24 For it to be a question of
a personal data is not required that the information in itself makes it possible to
identify the person or that all information necessary for
identification is held by a person. The question of whether someone is identifiable shall
assessed based on the aids that can reasonably be used by
someone to identify the person. A person is not considered identifiable if
the risk of that in practice is negligible.25 In the current case the risk is not
21
22
23
24
25

The judgment of the European Court of Justice of 24 September 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17 point 43.
File appendix 50 appendix 1 and 2.
Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 20 December 2017, Nowak, C-434/16, paragraphs 34-35.
See by analogy the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 20 December 2017, Nowak, C-434/16, paragraph 39.
Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 19 October 2016, Breyer, C-582/14, paragraphs 41, 43 and 46.

1 6 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

negligible, as a granted removal request is by definition
attached to a person's name. Identification can thus be made directly about it
there is only one name on the web page to which the search result leads. If it exists
several names on the web page, you can instead take one name at a time and search
the name of the search engine. In one of these searches, the search result does not come
is displayed and thus indirectly reveal that it is the person who requested and
granted removal.
2.4.2.3 There is no legal support for sending the messages

The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that Google has no legal basis for
the processing and that it is also not permitted on the grounds that it would
be compatible with the original purposes for which the data was collected
in. Google thus processes personal data without having a valid legal basis
basis for processing contrary to Article 5 and 6 of the Data Protection Regulation.
The reasons for the assessment can be seen from the following.
The messages are not supported by a legal obligation
Google claims that the processing is based on a legal obligation (Art

6.1 c) in accordance with Article 17.2 of the Data Protection Regulation or, as it may be understood,
according to Article 5.4 of the EU platform regulation,26 and that it is also considered
as industry practice according to proposals and recommendations from the Commission.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that the processing is not supported by Article 17.2
the data protection regulation for the following reasons. From the wording it appears that
the provision obliges personal data controllers who have published
the personal data an obligation to take reasonable measures to inform
personal data controllers who then reuse this personal data via
links, copies or reproductions. Such information obligation does not apply
search engine providers when engaging in the activity to which the right
removal applies in relation to, namely locating information which
contains personal data that has been published or posted on the Internet by
third parties, index it automatically, store it temporarily and finally
make it available to Internet users according to a certain
order of priority.27 In addition, it is also not required that search engine providers,
that has received a request to remove a search match, it informs
Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019.
Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 13 May 2014, Google Spain and Google, C-131/12, paragraph 41
and judgment of September 24, 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17 paragraphs 33 and 35.
26
27

1 7 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

third party that published the information on the internet as the search result
refers to. The purpose of the obligation according to Article 17.2 is to place greater
responsibility of the personal data controller for the original publication
which the search result refers to and so that individuals are not forced to produce
multiple deletion requests. The requirements are higher because the one originally
has published the information must grant a request for deletion than because a
search engine provider must grant a request for removal of a search hit
which refers to the original publication of the data. It can
thus finding that the opinion of the Article 29 Group in the WP225 Guidelines,
that messages such as those in the case at hand from search engine providers to
webmasters have no legal basis according to the data protection rules,
is still valid.28
The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that the processing is not supported in Article 5.4 i
platform regulation for the following reasons. First notes
The Swedish Data Protection Authority that the regulation was adopted on 20 June 2019 and must be applied
only from 12 July 2020 (Article 19) and thus does not yet apply. For it
others, it is clear from the purpose and scope of that regulation that
it shall not affect Union legislation applicable to, inter alia
the area of data protection (Article 1.5). Furthermore, it is stated that the requirements in
the platform regulation should not be seen as an obligation for
a search engine provider to disseminate personal data to its business users
and that any processing of personal data should take place in accordance with
the legal framework of the Union on the protection of natural persons with regard to
processing of personal data and on respect for privacy and protection of
personal data, above all the data protection regulation (reason 35).
As established in the previous paragraph and developed in the following two sections (if
legitimate interest and purpose limitation) speak the circumstances in it
the current case against the processing being permitted or justified
because the display of a search result may be illegal without the original
the publication is. A webmaster's interest in knowing that a search hit
not appearing when searching for a person's name is weak in comparison to those
interests that assert themselves in the cases referred to in the platform regulation
protect (reasons 1-5). Against the same background, the treatment cannot either, such as
See EDPB, Guidelines 5/2019 “on the Criteria of the Right to be Forgotten in the search
engine cases under the GDPR” (part 1), adopted on 2 December 2019 for the public
28

consultation, pp. 4-5, referring to the WP225 Guidelines, paragraph 23.

1 8 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

Google claimed, is considered consistent with established and common practice
industry practice.
The messages are not supported by a legitimate interest
Google asserts that the processing is based on Google's legitimate interest

(Article 6.1 f) of "informing the webmaster, as an important stakeholder,
that a web address linking to the webmaster's web page has been removed
with reference to the [data protection regulation]”.29 Google states that consideration shall
ensure that the individual is informed about and can expect the treatment,
which can have a positive effect for him by having the data removed from
the original web page. Furthermore, Google believes that the information does not constitute
particular categories of personal data, are minimized as far as possible and
only shared with a recipient who already has access to them.
The Danish Data Protection Authority finds that Google's processing is not permitted
reference to any of the interests stated by Google. None of
the conditions according to Article 6.1 f are met, namely the presence of a
legitimate interest of the personal data controller or third party, that
the processing is necessary for the legitimate interest pursued and
that the individual's interests or fundamental freedoms and rights do not weigh
heavier and requires protection of personal data.30
First, Google has stated that the processing may lead to it
webmaster removes the original data, so what gets
perceived as the webmaster's interest in testing his own potential
obligation to remove the data from the website. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
notes, however, that the interest invoked by Google is hypothetical
the time of processing, as Google does not know about it
webmasters have an interest in making such an assessment. It is
thus not a legitimate interest in the meaning of the data protection regulation. 31
The treatment cannot then be considered necessary either. The webmaster's
interests cannot, in a balancing of interests, be considered to weigh more heavily than them
registered fundamental freedoms and rights.

29
30
31

File appendix 45, p. 14.
See the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 4 May 2017, Rīgas satiksme, C‑13/16, paragraph 28.
Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 11 December 2019, TK, C‑708/18, paragraph 44.

1 9 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

Google has also invoked the public's legitimate interest in Google
not make incorrect decisions about removal. The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that
Google sends the messages only after Google has already removed one
search hit, i.e. after Google has already made the necessary balance
in order not to make wrong decisions. It is therefore not an actual interest in
the time of treatment. It is thus not a legitimate interest in
the meaning of the data protection regulation.32
If what Google has stated regarding incorrect decisions should instead be understood as
that the legitimate interest is the public interest in wrong decisions
whether removing search hits after the fact should be able to be corrected is
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment is that the processing is not necessary.
The fact that Google has removed a URL is not sufficient to
the webmaster must be able to assess whether the decision is incorrect, then it
the webmaster lacks knowledge of what the individual has stated in their request.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority also assesses that the individual's interests weigh
heavier based on the following circumstances.
The fact that the data protection authorities in the WP225 guidelines (point 23)
already expressly dissuaded search engine providers from sending such
messages speak against it being allowed in a balance of interests.
Only Google and the individual know that Google has granted one
request for removal. By Google releasing the data to third parties
this means a more serious violation than if the data had been
generally available.33
The disclosure of the data to the webmaster is also done without
sufficient protective measures, as Google has not shown that the company can guarantee
or has any opportunity to influence that the webmaster does not use
the data in an inappropriate manner or that the data is not disclosed to
webmasters in third countries that are not covered by adequate safeguards.
In terms of the individual's legitimate expectations, Google certainly has
informed in its web form that the processing may take place, but
Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 11 December 2019, TK, C‑708/18, paragraph 44.
Judgment of the European Court of Justice of November 24, 2011, Asociación Nacional de Establecimientos
Financieros de Crédito, C‑468/10 and C‑469/10, paragraph 45.
32
33

2 0 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

has done this in a misleading way that gives the impression that the treatment
must be approved by the individual for the removal request to
handled, or that the processing follows from Google's legal obligation to
handle the request. It must be taken into account that Google has not informed them
registered that the legal basis for the processing is justified
interest according to Article 6.1 f (Article 13.1 c), of the company or of a third party
legitimate interests that make the processing necessary (Article 13.1 d) or
the company's intention to transfer the data to third countries (Article 13.1 f). It has
nor has it emerged that Google has expressly notified the individual
about the individual's right under Article 21.1 to object at any time
processing that is based on legitimate interest and has clearly reported this,
clear and separate from other information (Article 21.4).
Against this background, the processing is not permitted with the support of a legitimate
interest.
The messages are not compatible with the original purposes
Finally, Google claims that the sending of the message is compatible with

the original purposes for which the data were collected, i.e. Google's
obligation to remove search results upon request in certain cases (Article 17.1 and 17.3).
According to Google, the purpose of the processing is to “give the webmaster a
ability to remove the actual content of the web page, as this increases
the breakthrough for the right to be forgotten". Google thus claims that the company
sends these messages with the support of Article 6.4 of the Data Protection Regulation.
The Data Protection Regulation contains criteria for determining whether a treatment
for other purposes is compatible with the purposes for which the data
originally collected or if the processing is contrary to the principle of
purpose limitation in Article 5.1 b of the data protection regulation (points a–e i
Article 6.4 and Recital 50). Several of the circumstances that are relevant according to
these criteria have already been explained in the previous section and will
therefore only summarized here.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the current processing is neither justified
based on the consent of the data subject or the law of the Union or of the Member States
national law. Furthermore, the Data Inspectorate states in accordance
the criteria in Article 6.4 that the connection between the purposes (point a) is weak,
because as stated in the previous section the possibilities of the registrants and
rights regarding requests to search engine providers and

2 1 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

website owners are not equivalent. The context is not like that either
that the latter treatment is what the individual can typically expect
(point b), which is not changed by the information provided by Google
the treatment in its web form as that information is misleading. To
a request for removal made and granted may itself be deemed to be
personal data of a privacy-sensitive nature (point c). Besides, the fact speaks
that a request for removal has been granted because the underlying
the information on the web page is often such particularly sensitive information or
criminal data referred to in article 9 and 10 of the data protection regulation.
The consequences of the subsequent processing (point d) may as a rule be considered
negative for the individual and can even be used to counteract the purpose of
request. The individual is also not obliged to turn first or at the same time
to the webmaster where the information was published and request that it be removed
and can also be assumed to have a lower chance of success with such
request because the original publication may have a stronger
freedom of expression legal protection.34 In addition, knowledge that the search engine
granted a request is assumed to carry the risk of some webmasters trying
circumvent the removal decision by republishing the data on a
other address or distribute them in any other way. As stated above, Google has
not shown that the company set up any guarantees or safeguards to
counteract this (point e).
Google does not make any assessment of the suitability of sending the messages
the individual case and also does not offer the individual any opportunity to
object. Google's routine in general for handling removal, namely only
based on specific URLs, requiring new requests even when the same
content is republished, entails the risk of individuals being unnecessarily exposed
suffering as a result of the treatment. An example of this is search result 2 i
complaint 8, where the company had blocked the search result that the Data Inspectorate
submitted again, but where the same content appeared again in the search results then
the webmaster republished the content on the same website, but on
a new web address. The individuals themselves must monitor and react to any
re-publications in the company's search services. This erodes the effectiveness of
their rights and is thus not in their interest.
Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 13 May 2014, Google Spain and Google, C-131/12, paragraph 83
and 85 and judgment of 24 September 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17, paragraph 52 and
the Advocate General's proposed decision in the case, paragraph 81.
34

2 2 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that Google does not have the support of Article 6.4 and that
the procedure constitutes a violation of the principle of purpose limitation i
article 5.1 b of the data protection regulation.
2.4.2.4 The information to the individuals violates the principle of openness

Google has stated that the purpose of the information to the individual i
the web form that messages are sent to webmasters is that
meet the requirements of the right to information and the principle of legality,
correctness and openness and that this follows from practice.35
The Swedish Data Protection Authority does not dispute that Google is obliged to inform them
registered about which recipients will have access to their data
according to Article 13.1 e, but states that the information duty aims to
protect the registered.36 As stated in the previous section, it is
current transfer illegal and to the detriment of the individual. Like there too
stated, Google has provided misleading information to individuals about it
legal basis on which the processing is based. In addition, have
the data protection authorities jointly, and the Data Protection Authority in particular,
previously alerted Google to the flaws with the routine of sending such
messages without Google having fixed this. In addition, Google requires that they
individuals agree to the procedure to be allowed to submit a request for
removing. Against this background, the information appears as Google
leaves to individuals about the treatment as misleading in a way that may
is considered likely to induce individuals to refrain from exercising their right to request
removing. Through this, Google processes personal data in violation of
the transparency principle in Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation.

3 Choice of intervention
3.1 Possible intervention measures
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has a number of corrective powers to access according to
article 58.2 a–j of the data protection regulation, among other things to order it

Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 16 January 2019, Deutsche Post AG, C-496/17, paragraph 59 and
judgment of 1 October 2015, Bara et al., C-201/14, paragraph 34.
36 Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 7 May 2009, Rijkeboer, C-553/07, paragraphs 34-35.
35

2 3 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

personal data controller to ensure that the processing takes place in accordance with
the regulation and if required in a specific way and within a specific
period.
From point (i) of Article 58.2 and Article 83.2 of the Data Protection Regulation
it appears that the Data Protection Authority has the authority to impose administrative
penalty charges in accordance with Article 83. Depending on the circumstances i
the individual case, administrative penalty fees shall be imposed in addition to or in
instead of the other measures referred to in Article 58.2. Furthermore, it appears from article
83.2 which factors must be taken into account when deciding on administrative
penalty fees must be imposed and when determining the size of the fee.
If it is a question of a minor violation, the Data Protection Authority receives according to what
as set out in Recital 148 of the Data Protection Regulation instead of imposing a
penalty fee issue a reprimand according to article 58.2 c. Consideration must be given
aggravating and mitigating circumstances in the case, such as that of the violation
nature, severity and duration and previous violations of
relevance.
3.2 Injunction
The Danish Data Protection Authority has found that Google by regularly sending
notice to webmaster that search hits have been removed processing
personal data in violation of articles 5.1 b and 6 of the data protection regulation.
Furthermore, it has been established that Google provides misleading information about
the sending of such messages in a manner contrary to Article 5.1 a i
data protection regulation.
Google must therefore be ordered to ensure that the processing in these parts takes place in
in accordance with the data protection regulation as follows.
Datainspektionen orders with the support of article 58.2 d i
data protection regulation Google that, as far as requests for removal are concerned
of display of search results for searches on individual names using
Google search services that can be done from Sweden,


stop informing webmasters of URLs when Google
has granted a request except in cases where the individual himself has requested
the.

2 4 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274



stop showing the text “If URLs are removed from our
search results as a result of your request, we may provide information to them
webmasters of the removed URLs” in their web form
for removal requests or provide similar information to
individuals unless it is clear that webmasters are only informed about
that a request has been granted if the individual has requested it.

3.3 Circumstances of importance for whether a penalty fee is to be imposed
3.3.1 What Google has stated
Google has stated that complaints 2 and 8 are isolated
events relating to two individual registrants and are consequences of
acceptable and well-founded interpretations of the applicable law. It can't
be consistent with the intent or overall purpose of
data protection regulation to issue excessive penalty fees for
violations relating to individual material interpretations of current
right with little or no impact on data subjects. In the current case have
no damage at all has been shown with respect to the alleged
the violations. If high sanction levels were to be applied for relatively small ones
violations and isolated events and with little or no impact for
registered, they as tools to ensure compliance would risk that
lose its effect because data controllers would have nothing
incentives to pursue regulatory compliance at a systematic level.
Google claims in summary that the following circumstances must
considered mitigating. It is a question of isolated events, which have been ongoing
for a limited time and concerns a limited number of registrants who do not have
suffered any damage as a result of the alleged violations. Google has
informed the registrants that they can complain to the Data Inspectorate. Google has
was not intentional or negligent and cannot be considered to be principal
or solely responsible. Google complies with the data protection regulation on a
systematic level and acts in accordance with a code of conduct by following
The WP225 Guidelines. Google has cooperated with the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Google
have not gained any financial benefits or avoided losses.
3.3.2 Assessment of the violation regarding complaint 2
In mitigation, the fact that the violation concerns only one speaks
person.

2 5 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

The following circumstances speak in an aggravating direction. The violation is one step
in a systematic procedure because it follows the procedures Google has. Further
are the current categories of data, such as sensitive data and
criminal data, especially those worthy of protection. If a search result leads to a web page
with such personal data about a person it can have a significant
impact on his fundamental rights regarding respect for
privacy and the protection of personal data and constitute a particularly
serious intervention.37 It would typically result in a damaged reputation,
unauthorized disclosure and significant financial disadvantage to individuals, whereby it
should be mentioned that the appellant in the present case has likened the effect of
the violation that a professional ban would have been announced against him.38
Google has not taken sufficient steps to mitigate the damage, but pretended to
the search result remains despite the Swedish Data Protection Authority's previous decision. The violation
has lasted for about 4.5 months during the time that the data protection regulation has been
applicable. Since the procedure followed Google's routines, it is not a question of
a single mistake without the action being intentional. It can too
it is established that Google has failed to comply with the injunction which
The Data Inspection Authority announced in the previous decision with the support of Section 45
the Personal Data Act and the Data Protection Directive to terminate
the treatment. By Google requiring individuals to enter an exact
URL in Google Web Forms and does not investigate requests
covers more than that, the company avoids indirect costs in any case.
3.3.3 Assessment of the violation regarding complaint 8
In mitigating circumstances, the circumstances indicate that the violation only refers to
a person and that the time during which the violation has been going on
the data protection regulation has been applicable, about two weeks, is relatively long
short time.
The following circumstances speak in an aggravating direction. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has
found that Google has failed to comply with the injunction which
the supervisory authority announced in the previous decision with the support of section 45
the Personal Data Act and the Data Protection Directive to terminate
the treatment and which won legal force on May 24, 2018. Google has done
regarding the company's intention to comply with a legally binding

37
38

The judgment of the European Court of Justice of 24 September 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17, paragraphs 44 and 46.
See file appendix 31, p. 2.

2 6 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

injunction, but on the other hand has not shown diligence by correcting himself
at the discretion of the supervisory authority by temporarily restricting
the display of the search result pending court judgment or even when Google
according to his own information, on May 23, 2018, he was served with the judgment that determined
Data inspection assessment. Regarding the current categories of
information, it has concerned criminal information, which is particularly sensitive to privacy.
If a search result leads to a web page with such personal data about one
person, it can have a significant impact on their fundamentals
rights regarding the respect for privacy and the protection of
personal data and constitute an extremely serious intervention.39 It would seem
typically involve damaged reputation, unauthorized disclosure and significant
financial disadvantage to individuals, whereby it should be mentioned that the appellant in it
the current case has compared the effect of the violation to that of a professional ban
would have been notified against him.40 Google has not taken sufficient
measures to alleviate the damage, without allowing the search hit to remain despite
The Data Inspectorate's decision and the court's verdict. Because the procedure followed
Google's procedures have been intentional.
3.3.4 Assessment of the violation regarding notification to webmasters and
information to individuals
The following circumstances are aggravating. The offense intended to send
notice is such as to erode the effectiveness of the right to
removal and affects anyone who has been granted a removal request.
For the current period, potentially 5,690 people can be covered
the procedure. The misrepresentation offense affects
anyone who may have an interest in making such a request. The current category
of data, i.e. that someone has requested and been granted removal, may
typically considered to constitute a task for which the individual does not want to be disclosed
the webmaster or someone else, as the data can be used for
to defeat the purpose of the request. The violations thus entail damage i
form of lost opportunity for the individual to exercise his rights, lack of
control over their personal data and unauthorized disclosure. The violations
has been ongoing since May 25, 2018 and is still ongoing. It appears from
the investigation in the case that Google has been aware of the processing and
so that it was done intentionally. Since the procedure can be assumed to entail that

39
40

The judgment of the European Court of Justice of 24 September 2019, G.C. et al., C-136/17, paragraphs 44 and 46.
The previous decision, p. 31.

2 7 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

individual refrains from requesting removal, avoids Google in any case
indirect costs.
3.3.5 Penalty fees shall be imposed
The treatments that this supervision covers regarding complaints 2 and 8 therein
previously the decision has meant that Google processes data that
In previous decisions, the Swedish Data Protection Authority found that Google treated in violation of
the Personal Data Act and the Data Protection Directive and submitted to Google that
cease. It cannot therefore be considered a question of excusable, material
misinterpretations. It also shows a lack of respect for individual rights
and are thus not minor violations in the sense referred to in recital 148 i
data protection regulation. There is thus no reason to replace one
penalty fee with a reprimand. Any other corrective action is not
current. Google shall therefore be subject to administrative penalty fees for
the violations.
The procedure for sending messages to webmasters and the information
which is left to the individual in the web form is done systematically and risks
to put the right of removal out of play. It is not a question of less
violations. There is no reason to replace a penalty fee with one
reprimand. It is also not enough that Google is ordered to cease
with the procedure. Google must therefore be subject to administrative penalty fees
also for these violations.
3.4 Determining the amount of the penalty fee
3.4.1 General provisions
According to Article 83.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, each supervisory authority must
ensure that the imposition of administrative penalty charges in each individual
case is effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has found that Google has violated Articles 5, 6, 9,
10 and 17 of the data protection regulation. These articles are covered by article 83.5,
which means that a higher penalty amount can be imposed.
According to ch. 6 Section 3 of the Data Protection Act allows the Data Inspectorate to issue a
penalty fee for violations of Article 10 of the Data Protection Regulation and
must then apply article 83.1, 83.2 and 83.3 and determine the amount of the fee
with application of Article 83.5.

2 8 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

According to Article 83.3, the administrative sanction fee may not exceed
the amount of the most serious violation if it is one or the same
data processing or connected data processing.
As regards calculation of the amount, Article 83.5 i
data protection regulation that companies that commit violations such as those in question
may be subject to penalty fees of up to twenty million EUR or four
percentage of the total global annual turnover in the previous financial year,
depending on which value is the highest.

3.4.2 The amount to which penalty fees can be determined
When determining the maximum amount for a penalty fee to be imposed a
company, the definition of the term company shall be used as the EU Court of Justice
uses when applying Articles 101 and 102 of the TFEU (see recital
150 of the data protection regulation). It appears from the court's practice that this
covers every entity that carries out economic activity, regardless of the entity's
legal form and the manner of its financing as well as whether the entity i
legal meaning consists of several natural or legal persons.41
The Swedish Data Protection Authority assesses that the turnover of the company to be added
basis for calculating the administrative penalty fees that Google can
imposed is Google's parent company Alphabet Inc (Alphabet). Of obtained
information was Alphabet's global annual turnover in 2018 approx. 136,819,000,000
American dollars (USD),42 which corresponds to approximately 119,500,000,000 euros
(EUR).43 This corresponds to approximately SEK 1,280,000,000,000.44 The highest
penalty amount that can be determined in the case is four percent of this amount,
that is, about 51,200,000,000 (fifty-one billion two hundred million)
crowns.

Article 29 Working Group, Guidelines for the Application and Determination of Administrative
penalty fees in accordance with Regulation 2016/679 (the WP253 guidelines), p. 6.
41

File appendix 40, p. 47.
Guided by the USD to EUR exchange rate as of March 9, 2020 according to European
central bank, 0.8729.
44 Based on the EUR to SEK exchange rate as of March 9, 2020 according to European
central bank, 10.7203.
42
43

2 9 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

3.4.3 Determination of the amount of the penalty fee
In order for penalty fees to be effective and dissuasive, according to
Datainspektionen's opinion of the personal data controller's turnover
is taken into account in particular when determining the amount of penalty fees. One
proportionality assessment must also be done in each individual case.
In a proportionality assessment, it must be ensured that the penalty fee
does not become too high in relation to the violations in question. Thereby shall
taken into account that the complaints concern two people and that the routine that regularly
notify the webmaster of removal and information to individual subjects
Sweden and in the current case may amount to 5,690 registered. At the same time
penalty fees must be effective and dissuasive.
Overall, the Data Inspection Authority finds that an efficient, proportionate and
dissuasive penalty fee for the established violations regarding
complaints 2 and 8 are 25,000,000 (twenty-five million) kroner and regarding
message to webmasters and misleading information to individuals are
50,000,000 (fifty million) kroner.
Against this background, the Data Inspectorate decides with the support of ch. 6. Section 3
the data protection act and articles 58.2 and 83 of the data protection regulation that
Google must pay an administrative penalty fee of 75,000,000 (seventy five
million) kroner.

This decision has been made by the director general Lena Lindgren Schelin after
presentation by the lawyer Olle Pettersson. At the final processing
also has chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom, unit manager Catharina
Fernquist and lawyer Nidia Nordenström participated.
Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2020-03-10 (This is an electronic signature)
3.5 Attachments
Appendix 1 – How to pay penalty fee

3 0 (31)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2018-9274

4 How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision is being appealed and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. The Swedish Data Protection Authority sends the appeal
further to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination if the inspection does not
itself changes the decision in the way you have requested.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

3 1 (31)

