1/7

 File No.: PS/00208/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On January 9, 2020, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection resolution was issued in sanctioning procedure number
PS/00407/2018, filed against the CITY COUNCIL OF ORIA (hereinafter, the
claimed). In said resolution, in addition to imposing a sanction of warning,
The following measures were required:

“SECOND: Considering that article 58.2.d) empowers the control authority to:
”order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period”, the
ORIA CITY COUNCIL that contributes within a month of receiving this
resolution, detail the organizational and technical measures so that the materialization of
another infraction like the one analyzed is difficult to carry out. As an indication to adopt,
those suggested in this resolution are valid.”

SECOND: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure was notified
irrefutably on January 13, 2020 to the claimed party, granting the
period of one month for the adoption of the imposed measures, as stated
accredited in the file.

THIRD: After the expiration of the indicated term without this Agency having
received any writing on the measures implemented by the claimed party and
having requested the Ombudsman information in this regard on the 19th of
May 2020, they were requested again on two occasions to
report on the corrective measures adopted, in accordance with what was agreed in the
aforementioned Resolution.

These requirements were collected by the person in charge on June 24,
2020 and November 22, 2021, as stated in the Notific@ certificates that
they work in the file.

FOURTH: Having received a registered document with an entry number
O00007128e2100050363, on December 9, 2021, communicating the measures
adopted, it is noted that it has not been proven that in the minutes of the Plenary there is no
publish unnecessary personal data, not having taken measures to
comply with the principle of data minimization, as indicated in resolution
previously mentioned. Therefore, the claimed party is once again required to
to review said measures and communicate again the measures adopted in the
maximum period of one month, in order to comply with the provisions of the resolution and
be able to report, as requested, to the institution of the Ombudsman.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

This requirement, collected by the person in charge on March 10, 2022, as
It is stated in the Notific@ certificate that is in the file, it has not received
response.

FIFTH: Against the aforementioned resolution, in which the adoption of measures is required,
There is no ordinary administrative appeal due to the expiration of the deadlines
established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not stated his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution.

SIXTH: On May 30, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in
Article 83.6 of the RGPD Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD).

The aforementioned initial agreement was collected by the person in charge on June 1,
2022, as stated in the Notific@ certificate that is in the file.

SEVENTH: With dates June 15 and 21, 2022 and entry registration numbers
REGAGE22e00024677511 and REGAGE22e00025611590 respectively, the part
claimed presents allegations to the initial agreement in which it states that in the
Decree of the Mayor provides the necessary instructions to "all
dependencies of the City Council of Oria” for the publication of resolutions and
agreements, proposing the minimization of the data that appears in them, which
which includes the minutes of the Plenary and all those actions of the City Council in which
that it is necessary for personal data to appear.

Furthermore, the respondent has contracted the services of a
external consultant expert in data protection regulations such as
support and guidance to implement the following measures:
- A procedure has been developed to duly comply with the obligation to
inform interested parties about the processing of their personal data.
- Measures have been adopted to ensure compliance with the principles of the
treatment of legality, loyalty and transparency data.
- The limitation of the purpose for which the data is processed will be ensured, these being
collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not processed after
manner incompatible with those purposes.
- Through the aforementioned Decree of the Mayor's Office, the principle of
minimization of data, treating personal data when necessary for the
intended purposes.
- The principles of accuracy, limitation of the term of conservation and
integrity and confidentiality.
- The analysis of the legal bases of the treatments will be carried out in a
that it is guaranteed that there is always a legal legal basis for the treatment of the
data that is obtained.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

In addition, a Data Protection Delegate has been appointed who is
taking a course in this matter with a duration of 180 hours.

Additionally, within the scope of the adaptation project, the
preparation of a Record of Treatment Activities in accordance with the provisions
in article 30 of the General Data Protection Regulation.

Likewise, the external company is proceeding to prepare a
risk analysis of the processing of personal data, to determine the
security measures applicable to them. In this way, in case of
determined through the same that the treatments carried out suppose a high
risk to the rights and freedoms of those affected, will proceed with the Evaluation
of Impact as established in article 35 of the RGPD.

In the same way, the due procedures have been developed and implemented
for:
- The correct detection, management and notification of security breaches that occur
produced in the City Hall facilities.
- Attend to the requests for the exercise of rights that are required by the
citizens.
- Assess whether the data processors who are going to work with the City Council
offer sufficient guarantees of compliance in accordance with the legislation on
of data protection, also adapting the data processing contracts in
this sense.
- Carry out a training and awareness plan for employees on the matter,
in such a way that human errors are avoided as far as possible.

EIGHTH: On July 14, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
impose a sanction of warning to the claimed party.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure and the requirements for the
compliance with the measures imposed therein indicated in the background
third and fourth were notified electronically, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 43 of the LPACAP. Said resolution became firm and executive by the course
of the terms foreseen for the interposition of the resources indicated therein.

SECOND: The party complained against has not sent to this Agency, prior to the
agreement to initiate this procedure, a response that proves that in the minutes
of the Plenary that unnecessary personal data is not published in order to comply with the principle of
data minimization.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

THIRD: The notification of the agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning was carried out electronically through the Notific@ system, being
collected by the person in charge on June 1, 2022.

FOURTH: The party complained against has presented the arguments to the agreement to initiate
this sanctioning procedure collected in the seventh antecedent.

FIFTH: The notification of the proposed resolution was sent electronically to
through the Notific@ system, being collected by the person in charge on July 14,
2022.

SIXTH: The respondent has not presented arguments to the proposal of
resolution of this sanctioning procedure within the period indicated for it.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

Allegations to the Home Agreement

II

As regards the arguments presented by the respondent, collected
In the seventh antecedent, the following should be noted.

The resolution in which the adoption of measures was required, for which
a response period of one month, was notified on January 13, 2020.
Likewise, the adoption of corrective measures was again required twice and,
after a response in which it is noted that it has not been proven that in the minutes of the
Plenary no unnecessary personal data is published, no measures have been taken
To comply with the principle of data minimization, a new requirement is made
which was not answered, so it was finally agreed to start the procedure
penalty on May 30, 2022.

When the Decree of the Mayor's Office, provided before the agreement to start this
procedure, provides instructions for data minimization, refers

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

specifically to the publication of resolutions and agreements, contracts, agreements and
management assignments and notification by means of announcements.

The communication of measures adopted during the instruction of this procedure
it does not affect the existence of the proven facts constituting the infringement.

With regard to the measures communicated, on the part of this Agency it is accused
receipt of the same, without this statement implying any pronouncement on
the regularity or legality of the measures adopted.

You are warned about the provisions of article 5.2 of the RGPD, which establishes the principle
of proactive responsibility when it states that “The data controller will be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of article 1 and capable of demonstrating it”.
This principle refers to the obligation that falls on the person responsible for the
treatment not only of designing, implementing and observing the legal, technical and
and adequate organizational so that the processing of data is in accordance with the
regulations, but to remain actively vigilant throughout the entire life cycle
treatment so that compliance is correct, being also capable of
prove it.

III

unfulfilled mandate

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed has failed to comply with the resolution of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
in relation to the measures imposed on him.

Therefore, the facts described in the "Proven Facts" section are considered
constituting an infringement, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of the
article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, which provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Typification and qualification of the infraction

IV

This infringement is typified in article 83.6 of the RGPD, which stipulates the following:

“Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority pursuant to article
58, paragraph 2, will be sanctioned in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following behavior:

“m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of
competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

v

Imputed sanction

Article 83.7 of the RGPD provides the following:
“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:
(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)
2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.
(…)
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article."

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the ORIA CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P0407000I, for a
infringement of Article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.6 of the RGPD, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the ORIA CITY COUNCIL.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

