 

  

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
Opinion  03/2023  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory authority of Romania regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 
 

Adopted on 3 February 2023 

 

 

Adopted 

1 

Table of contents  

 
 

 
 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ............................................................................................................... 4 
ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................. 4 
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements . 4 
 
 
Analysis of the RO SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

GENERAL REMARKS ........................................................................................................ 5 
INDEPENDENCE .............................................................................................................. 7 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 8 
EXPERTISE ....................................................................................................................... 8 
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 9 
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING .......................................................................... 9 
COMMUNICATION WITH THE RO SA .............................................................................. 9 
REVIEW MECHANISMS.................................................................................................... 9 
LEGAL STATUS ............................................................................................................... 10 
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ........................................................................................ 10 
FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................ 12 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during the accreditation of  a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent SAs to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance explaining the  accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term “accreditation”. However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

                                                             
1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

Adopted 

3 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The Romanian Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “RO SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing 
the accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its 
opinion pursuant to Art. 64 (1)(c) GDPR, for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the 
completeness of the file was taken on 28 October 2022. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks. 

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 

Adopted 

4 

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises.”  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

RO SA to take further action.  

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the RO SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the RO SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

 

10. The Board notes that on 22 February 2022, “the Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for 
transfers” were adopted. These guidelines do not add any additional requirements for the accreditation of 
monitoring  bodies  that  monitor  codes  of  conduct  intended  for  international  transfers.  Rather,  the 
guidelines provide further specifications of the general requirements established by the Guidelines 1/2019 
(Section 12) taking into account the specific context of international transfers.2 For the sake of clarity, the 
Board recommends the RO SA to add a reference to the above-mentioned guidelines, which are relevant 
in the context of monitoring codes of conduct intended for international transfers. 

                                                             
2 See Section4.2 of the EDPB Guidelines 04/2021 on Codes of Conduct as tools for transfers 

Adopted 

5 

11. For  the  sake  of  consistency,  the  Board  encourages  the  RO  SA  to  adjust  the  terminology  used  in  the 
requirements to the one used in the Guidelines, this applies in particular to the following terms. The Board 
also encourages the RO SA to revise the requirements in order to avoid misunderstandings stemming from 
the translation of the document into English (for example, “criteria for accreditation” should be replaced 
by “requirements for accreditation”, section 1.4. “Liability” should be replaced by “Accountability”). 

12. As regards Section 4 of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board takes into account that paragraph 
3 of the draft accreditation requirements is in Romanian language in the submitted draft version of the 
requirements. The Board, on the basis of the information provided to the Board by the RO SA, understands 
that the wording of this sentence in English is - “The monitoring procedures can be designed in different 
ways as long as they take into account factors such as the risks raised by the data processing in scope of 
the code, complaints received or specific incidents and the number of members of the code.” The Board 
recommends that the RO SA ensures the inclusion of this paragraph in English, in the final amended version 
of the requirements. 

13. For the sake of consistency and clarity, the Board encourages the RO SA to replace throughout the draft 
accreditation requirements the term “National Supervisory Authority for Personal Data Processing” with 
the term “Competent Supervisory Authority” in line with the terminology used in the Guidelines. At the 
same time the Board encourages the RO SA to rephrase in the definition section of the draft requirements 
a definition of the term “Competent Supervisory Authority“, to be understood as the National Supervisory 
Authority for Personal Data Processing. 

14. The Board recommends to elaborate the definition of “Accreditation”, so that it is defined in line with the 
Guidelines, by addition of a last sentence: “The accreditation of a monitoring body applies to a specific 
code”.  

15. The Board notes that the requirements in Section 2 point 3 state that an internal monitoring body “could 
be an internal department within the code owner”. The Board considers that it should be made explicit 
that  an  internal  monitoring  body  cannot  be  setup  within  a  code  member.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends adding a relevant requirement. 

16. The Board observes that, Chapter 1  Section 2 paragraph 7 of  the  requirements mention a renewal of 
accreditation. However, it is not stated explicitly that in  all cases of renewal a  repeated evaluation of 
compliance of the monitoring body with the requirements is carried out. The Board welcomes the provision 
concerning the re-assessment. However, for the sake of clarity and transparency, the Board recommends 
the RO SA to explicitly state that in case of substantial changes to the monitoring body relating to the 
monitoring  body’s  ability  to  function  independently  and  effectively,  such  a  review  will  be  always  be 
conducted. 

17. The Board notes that Art. 41 GDPR does not refer to the validity of the accreditation of a monitoring body 
and  that  there  is  a  margin  of  manoeuvre  for  the  national  SAs.  Moreover,  the  Board  notes  that  the 
accreditation requirements should be re-assessed periodically, in order to ensure compliance with the 
GDPR. Indeed, even if the requirements establish a time limit for the accreditation of the monitoring body, 
this is to be considered without prejudice of the exercise, at any time, of the SA’s supervisory powers with 
regard to the obligations of the monitoring body. Therefore, for the sake of clarity, the Board encourages 
the  RO  SA  to  clarify  that  the  requirements  may  be  reviewed  periodically  and  to  provide  transparent 
information on what happens after the expiry of the validity of the accreditation and what the procedure 
will be. 

 

Adopted 

6 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

18. With  respect  to  the  definition  of  independence,  the  Board  encourages  the  RO  SA  to  elaborate  what 
independence means. To ensure consistency, such clarification could rely on the wording agreed by the 
Board in the previous opinions, by specifying that the rules and procedures shall allow the monitoring body 
to perform the monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without being 
directly  or  indirectly  influenced  or  subjected  to  any  form  of  pressure  that  might  affect  its  decisions. 
According to the Board, independence for a monitoring body should be understood as a series of formal 
rules and procedures for the appointment, terms of reference and operation of the monitoring body. In 
the Board’s view, these rules and procedures will allow the monitoring body to perform the monitoring of 
compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without being directly or indirectly influenced, 
or subjected to any form of pressure that might affect its decisions. This means that a monitoring body 
should not be in a position to receive any instructions regarding the exercise of its task from code members, 
the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies, or from the code owner itself. Therefore, the 
monitoring body must demonstrate impartiality and independence in relation to four main areas: legal and 
decision-making  procedures, 
financial  resources,  organisational  resources  and  structure  and 
accountability. In this regard, the Board observes that the RO SA’s accreditation requirements do not cover 
entirely the four areas outlined and are not structured in line with the Guidelines. The Board recommends 
to  elaborate  the  requirements  in  line  with  the  Guidelines  concerning  structure  and  areas  covered. 
Furthermore, the Board encourages the RO SA to include practical examples that provide a clearer view 
on how the independence can be demonstrated in the four areas. 

19. The Board acknowledges that Subsection 1.2. point 2 in terms of ability to act free from instructions and 
protected from any sort of sanctions or interference, whether direct or indirect, as a consequence of the 
fulfilment of its task, the monitoring body is compared to a data protection officer. To avoid confusion and 
misinterpretation  regarding  the  nature  of  the  monitoring  body,  the  Board  encourages  to  redraft 
Subsection 1.2., paragraph 2 of the requirements without such a comparison. 

20. With regard to Subsection 1.2, paragraph 2 of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board takes note 
of all the elements demonstrating the monitoring body’s independence with respect to its organizational 
structure. Among others, it is stated that the monitoring body must not be subject to sanctions for the 
performance of its tasks. The Board considers that it should be further clarified that the monitoring body 
assumes responsibility for its activities, and it cannot be subject to sanctions by neither the code owner 
nor the code members. Therefore, the Board encourages the RO SA to redraft this part of the requirements 
so that the monitoring body is protected, both from the code owner and from the code members, against 
any dismissal or sanction, direct or indirect, for the performance of its duties. 

21. With regard to the financial independence (subsection 1.3. Budget and resources), in the opinion of the 
Board, the monitoring body would not be considered financially independent if the rules governing its 
financial support allow a code member, who is under investigation by the monitoring body, to stop its 
financial contributions to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body. Therefore, 
the Board encourages the RO SA to elaborate further this requirement by providing more examples of how 
the monitoring body can provide such evidence.  

22. Regarding subsection 1.3 paragraph 3 on internal monitoring bodies, the Board recommends the RO SA to 
add a requirement to prove that the internal monitoring body has a specific separated budget that the 
internal monitoring body is able to manage independently.  

23. With regard to the accountability of the monitoring body, the Board notes that the monitoring body should 
be  able  to  demonstrate  “accountability”  for  its  decisions  and  actions  in  order  to  be  considered 
independent. The Board considers that the accountability requirements in subsection 1.4. of the RO SA’s 

Adopted 

7 

draft accreditation requirements do not fully cover all the elements that should be taken into account. The 
RO SA should clarify what kind of evidence is expected from the monitoring body, in order to demonstrate 
accountability. This could be accomplished through such things as setting out roles and decision-making 
framework and its reporting procedures, and by setting up policies to increase awareness among the staff 
about the governance structures and the procedures in place. Thus, the Board recommends the RO SA to 
strengthen  the  requirements  for  accountability,  to  allow  for  a  better  understanding  of  its  content  in 
relation to the independence of the monitoring body, and offer examples of the kind of evidence that the 
monitoring bodies can provide. 

 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

24. As a general remark in this section, the Board is of the opinion that, for practical reasons, examples of cases 
where a conflict of interest could arise might be helpful. An example of a conflict of interest situation would 
be the case where personnel conducting audits or making decisions on behalf of a monitoring body had 
previously worked for the code owner, or for any of the organisations adhering to the code. Therefore, the 
Board encourages the RO SA to add some examples, similar to the one provided in this paragraph. 

25. The Board considers that the measures and procedures in place aiming at preventing conflicts of interest 
should ensure that the monitoring body shall refrain from any action incompatible with its tasks and duties. 
Therefore, the Board recommends that the RO SA includes in the accreditation requirements that  the 
procedures and measures in place to avoid conflict of interest ensure that the monitoring body shall refrain 
from any action incompatible with its tasks and duties. 

26. Furthermore,  for  the  sake  of  consistency  and  clarity,  the  Board  encourages  the  RO  SA  to  replace, 
throughout the draft accreditation requirements, the terms “impartiality” with the term “independence” 
in line with the terminology used in the Guidelines and keep the term impartiality only in the context of 
organizational independence of monitoring bodies. 

 

  EXPERTISE 

27. As required by the Guidelines, every code must fulfil the monitoring mechanism criteria (cf. section 6.4 of 
the Guidelines), by demonstrating “why their proposals for monitoring are appropriate and operationally 
feasible” (para. 41 of the Guidelines). In this context, all codes with monitoring bodies will need to explain 
the necessary expertise level for their monitoring bodies in order to deliver the code’s monitoring activities 
effectively. Section 3 of the RO SA draft accreditation requirements refers to the “appropriate level of 
expertise necessary to perform its role effectively”. A reference to the level of experience as required by 
the code itself is missing. The Board encourages the RO SA to add examples so that the data protection 
expertise, experience and knowledge required, are reflected in the code itself. 

28. The Board agrees with the RO SA that expertise needs to involve the subject-matter (sector) of the code, 
in which case the relevant requirements that must be fulfilled can be specific, based on the sector to which 
the code applies. In this context, the Board recommends clarifying section 3 paragraph 2 that different 
interests involved and the risks of the processing activities addressed by the code should also be taken into 
account. 

29. Moreover, the Board notes that RO SA’s expertise requirements do not differentiate between staff at the 
management level and, therefore, in charge of the decision-making process, and staff at the operating 
level, conducting the monitoring activities. In this regard, the Board encourages the RO SA to clarify in 

Adopted 

8 

section  3  which  requirement  should  be  met  by  the  staff  performing  the  monitoring  function  and  the 
personnel making the decisions. 

 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

30. As regards Section 4 of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that paragraph 3 of the draft 
accreditation requirements states that: “The monitoring procedures can be designed in different ways as 
long as they take into account factors such as the risks raised by the data processing in scope of the code, 
complaints received or specific incidents and the number of members of the code.” The Board observes 
that the essence of the requirements is in line with the paragraph 72 of the Guidelines. However, the Board 
considers that the consideration in section 4 paragraph 4 of the requirements is meant as an example. 
Therefore, for the sake of clarity and consistency, the Board encourages to distinguish the requirements 
that are meant as examples of possible ways to comply with the requirements from the requirements 
themselves. The Board also recommends to add some examples in the requirements, such as random or 
unannounced audits, annual inspections, regular reporting and the use of questionnaires. 

31. With regard to section 4. Paragraph 5, the Board notes that the procedure to ensure the monitoring of the 
code of conduct will take into account the “number of code members”. Since the number of code members 
may not be known at the moment the monitoring body applies for accreditation, the Board encourages 
the RO SA to refer to the expected number and size of the code members. 

 

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

32. Regarding the complaints about code members (Section 5 of the RO SA accreditation requirements), the 
Board acknowledges that complaints handling process requirements should be set at  a high level and 
contain reasonable time frames for answering complaints. Thus, the Board recommends the RO SA to take 
a more flexible approach, by stating that the monitoring body will have to provide the complainant with 
progress reports or the outcome within a reasonable timeframe, such as three months. 

33. Regarding Section 5 paragraph 2 of the RO SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board considers that 
under section 74 of the Guidelines, the requirements related to the complaint handling process should 
contain the obligation of the monitoring body to make its decisions or general information thereof, publicly 
available. The Board notes that the wording of the accreditation requirements currently only addresses 
the need to ensure availability of sufficient resources to ensure that decisions are made publicly available. 
Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  requirement  is  redrafted  to  include  a  obligation  for  the 
monitoring body to make decision publicly available.  

 

  COMMUNICATION WITH THE RO SA 

34. The Board notes that Heading of Section 6 contains a reference to the competent supervisory authority. 
Considering  that  this  section  covers  the  communication  with  the  RO  SA,  for  the  sake  of  clarity  and 
consistency  the  Board  recommends  that  “Competent  supervisory  authority”  should  be  replaced  by 
reference to “National Supervisory Authority for Personal Data Processing”.  

 

  REVIEW MECHANISMS 

35. With  regard  to  section  7  of  the  RO  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board  notes  that  the 
reference  to  the  periodic  review  does  not  mention  that  the  SA  will  review  the  compliance  with  the 

Adopted 

9 

requirements periodically. Thus, the Board encourages the RO SA to clarify that the requirements may be 
reviewed periodically and to provide  transparent information on how  the periodic review will work in 
practice and what happens after the expiry of the validity of the accreditation. 

36. The Board notes that under section 7.2 of the requirements there is no reference to the fact that the 
updating of the code of conduct is the responsibility of the code owner. The Board is of the opinion that, 
in  order  to  avoid  confusion,  a  reference  to  the  code  owner  should  be  made.  Therefore,  the  Board 
encourages the RO SA to amend this section accordingly so to include such a reference to the code owner. 

 

  LEGAL STATUS 

37. The  code  of  conduct  itself  will  need  to  demonstrate  that  the  operation  of  the  code’s  monitoring 
mechanism is sustainable over time, covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring body being 
unable  to  perform  the  monitoring  function.  In  this  regard,  it  would  be  advisable  to  require  that  a 
monitoring body demonstrates that it can deliver the code of conduct’s monitoring mechanism over a 
suitable  period  of  time.  The  financial,  human  and  material  resources  to  ensure  the  continuity  of  the 
monitoring body should be accompanied with the necessary procedures to ensure the functioning of the 
monitoring mechanism over a suitable time. Therefore, the Board recommends RO SA to explicitly require 
that monitoring bodies shall demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over time. The Board also 
encourages  the RO SA  to include in the  accreditation  requirements that, in order to demonstrate the 
continuity  of  the  monitoring  function,  the  monitoring  body  should  demonstrate  that  it  has  sufficient 
financial and other resources, and the necessary procedures. 

38. The Board notes that the RO SA’s requirements or explanatory notes do not reference subcontracting, 
leaving  this  area  open  for  monitoring  bodies  applying  for  accreditation  to  decide  upon.  The  Board 
recommends that RO SA clarifies whether the monitoring body may have recourse to subcontractors, on 
which terms and conditions and that these are reflected in the explanatory notes or ordinance accordingly. 
If RO SA indicates that subcontracting is allowed, the Board recommends that the RO SA indicates, in the 
requirements, that the obligations applicable to the monitoring body are applicable in the same way to 
subcontractors. 

39. The Board observes that section 8 paragraph 4 requires the monitoring board to have a premises in the 
EEA. The Board is of the opinion that a monitoring body requires an establishment in the EEA. This is to 
ensure that they can uphold data subject rights, deal with complaints and that GDPR is enforceable and 
also  ensures  supervision  by  the  SA.  The  Board  encourages  that  RO  SA  clarify  that  the  premises  of 
monitoring body are to be understood as an establishment in the EEA.  

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

40. The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  RO  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an  inconsistent 

application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

41.  Regarding general remarks, the Board recommends that the RO SA:  

1.  adds a reference to Guidelines 04/2021, which are relevant in the context of monitoring codes of 

conduct intended for international transfers. 

2.  elaborates  the  definition  of  “Accreditation”,  by  addition  of  a  last  sentence  with  the  following 

wording: “The accreditation of a monitoring body applies to a specific code”.  

Adopted 

10 

3.  clarifies in the text of the requirements that internal monitoring bodies cannot be set up within a 

code member, but only within a code owner. 

4.  Explicitly state that in case of substantial changes to the monitoring body relating to the monitoring 
body’s ability to function independently and effectively, a review of the body that ensures that the 
monitoring body still meets the requirements for accreditation will be always conducted. 

42. Regarding independence the Board recommends that the RO SA: 

1.  further develops the requirements, in line with the four areas, for example ; 
2.  to add a requirement to prove that the internal monitoring body has a specific separated budget; 

3.  strengthens the requirements for accountability in the draft requirements, to allow for a better 
understanding  of  its  content  in  relation  to  independence  of  the  monitoring  body,  and  offer 
examples of the kind of evidence that the monitoring body can provide. 
 

43. Regarding conflict of interest the Board recommends that the RO SA: 

1. 

includes in the accreditation requirements that the procedures and measures in place to avoid 
conflict of interest ensure that the monitoring body shall refrain from any action incompatible 
with its tasks and duties. 

44.  Regarding expertise the Board recommends that the RO SA: 

1.  clarifies that other factors such as the size of the sector concerned, the different interests involved 
and the risks of these processing activities should be taken into account, in order to assess the 
level of expertise of the monitoring body. 

45. Regarding established procedures and structure the Board requires that the RO SA: 

1.  adds  some  examples  in  the  requirements,  such  as  random  or  unannounced  audits,  annual 
inspections,  regular  reporting  and  the  use  of  questionnaires.  In  addition,  the  monitoring 
procedures can be designated in different ways as long as they take into account factors such as 
the risks raised by the data processing within the scope of a code, complaints received or specific 
incidents and the number of members of a code. 

46. Regarding transparent complaint handling the Board requires that the RO SA: 

1.  takes  a  more  flexible  approach,  by  stating  that  the  monitoring  body  will  have  to  provide  the 
complainant with progress reports or the outcome within a reasonable timeframe, such as three 
months. 

2.  aligns the text of the accreditation requirements with the Guidelines, in order to ensure that the 

decisions, or general information thereof, are publicly available. 

47. Regarding communication with the RO SA the Board requires that the RO SA: 

1. 

In  the  heading  of  the  Section  6  replaces  “Competent  supervisory  authority”  with  “National 
Supervisory Authority for Personal Data Processing”. 

48. Regarding the legal status the Board requires that the RO SA: 

1.  explicitly requires that monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over 

time; 

Adopted 

11 

2.  clarifies whether the monitoring body may have recourse to subcontractors and on which terms 
and  conditions  and  that  these  are  reflected  in  the  requirements  or  explanatory  notes.  If 
subcontracting is allowed, amend the requirements or explanatory notes, so that the obligations 
applicable to the monitoring body are applicable in the same way to subcontractors. 

 

  FINAL REMARKS 

49. 

This opinion is addressed to the Romanian supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

50.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the RO SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

51. 

The RO SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

12 

