• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Allapplianceservices UK  Ltd 

Of:  Atlas Chambers,  33  West Street,  Brighton,  East Sussex 

United  Kingdom  BN1  2RE 

1. 

The  Information  Commissioner  ("the  Commissioner")  has  decided  to 

issue  Allapplianceservices  UK  Ltd  ("AUKL")  with  a  monetary  penalty 

under section  SSA  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA").  The  penalty 

is  in  relation  to  a  serious  contravention  of regulation  21  of the  Privacy 

and  Electronic  Communications 

(EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003 

("PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice  explains the  Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

AUKL,  whose  registered  office 

is  given  above  (Companies  House 

Registration  Number:  11516479) is the organisation stated in this notice 

to have  used  a public electronic communications service for the purpose 

of making  unsolicited  calls for the purposes of direct marketing  contrary 

to regulation  21  of PECR. 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies  to  the  making  of  unsolicited  calls  for  direct 

marketing  purposes.  It  means  that  if a  company  wants  to  make  calls 

promoting  a  product  or  service  to  an  individual  who  has  a  telephone 

number which  is  registered  with  the  Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 

("TPS"),  then  that individual  must have  notified  the  company that they 

do  not object to receiving  such  calls from  it. 

5. 

Regulation  21  paragraph  (1)  of PECR  provides that: 

"(1)  A  person  shall  neither  use,  nor  instigate  the  use  of,  a  public 

electronic communications service for the purposes of making unsolicited 

calls for direct marketing purposes  where-

(a) 

the called line is that of a subscriber who  has previously notified 

the caller that such  calls should not for the  time being be made 

on  that line;  or 

(b) 

the number allocated to a subscriber in  respect of the called line 

is  one listed in  the register kept under regulation 26." 

6. 

Regulation  21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4)  and  (5)  provide that: 

"(2)  A  subscriber shall  not permit his  line  to  be  used  in  contravention 

of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A  person  shall  not be  held  to  have  contravened  paragraph  (1)(b) 

where  the number allocated to  the called line has been  listed on  the 

register  for  less  than  28  days  preceding  that  on  which  the  call  is 

made. 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

( 4)  Where  a  subscriber who  has caused a  number allocated to  a  line  of 

his  to  be  listed in  the  register kept under regulation  26 has  notified 

a caller that he does not, for the time being, object to such calls being 

made  on  that  line  by  that  caller,  such  calls  may  be  made  by  that 

caller on that line,  notwithstanding that the number allocated to that 

line is  listed in  the said register. 

(5)  Where  a  subscriber  has  given  a  caller  notification  pursuant  to 

paragraph ( 4) in  relation  to a  line of his-

(a)  the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at any 

time,  and 

(b)  where such notification is  withdrawn,  the caller shall not make 

such calls on  that line." 

7. 

Under regulation  26  of PECR,  the  Commissioner is  required  to  maintain 

a  register  of numbers  allocated  to  subscribers  who  have  notified  them 

that they do  not wish,  for the time  being, to receive  unsolicited  calls for 

direct  marketing  purposes  on  those  lines.  The  Telephone  Preference 

Service Limited  ("TPS")  is  a limited company which  operates the register 

on  the  Commissioner's  behalf.  Businesses  who  wish  to  carry  out  direct 

marketing  by telephone  can  subscribe  to  the  TPS  for a  fee  and  receive 

from  them  monthly a  list of numbers on  that register. 

8. 

Section  122(5)  of  the  DPA18  defines  direct  marketing  as  "the 

communication  (by  whatever  means)  of  advertising  material  or 

marketing  material  which  is  directed  to  particular  individuals".  This 

definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) PECR 

&  Schedule  19  paragraphs 430  &  432(6)  DPA18). 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

9. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as  "a  living  individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals". 

10.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic communications 

services for the supply of such services". 

11.  Section  SSA  of the DPA  (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to PECR, 

as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a  person  with  a  monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a  serious contravention  of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) 

Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a) 

knew  or ought to  have  known  that there  was  a  risk  that 

the contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) 

failed 

to 

take 

reasonable  steps 

to  prevent 

the 

contravention. 

12.  The  Commissioner has  issued  statutory guidance  under section  SSC  (1) 

of  the  DPA  about  the  issuing  of  monetary  penalties  that  has  been 

published  on 

the 

ICO's  website.  The  Data  Protection 

(Monetary 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty  and  Notices)  Regulations  2010  prescribe 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

that the  amount  of any  penalty determined  by the  Commissioner must 

not exceed  £500,000. 

13.  PECR  were  enacted  to  protect  the  individual's  fundamental  right  to 

privacy 

in 

the  electronic  communications  sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently  amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner  will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' overall 

aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy rights. 

14.  The  provisions  of  the  DPA  remain  in  force  for  the  purposes  of  PECR 

notwithstanding  the  introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

Background to the case 

15.  AUKL  is  an  appliance  repair  company,  incorporated  in  2018,  which 

provides  repairs  of home  and  kitchen  appliances.  AUKL  offer protection 

plans under which customers pay a premium in  exchange for repair cover 

in  case  of an  issue with their home/kitchen  appliances. 

16.  On  30  March  2021,  the  Commissioner  received  a  referral  from  the 

Financial  Conduct  Authority  ("FCA"),  which  had 

itself  received  a 

complaint from  an  individual  understood  to  be  aged  between  55  and  64 

years  old  (the "FCA  Complainant").  The  FCA  Complainant reported  that 

on  1 February 2021 they had received an  unsolicited call from a company 

regarding  the  renewal  of a  washing  machine  insurance  policy.  The  FCA 

Complainant  suggested  that  during  the  call  they  were  misled  by  the 

company, which  claimed that it was in  fact the individual's current policy 

provider,  when  it was  later discovered  that it was  not 1 .  During  the  call, 

1 AUKL strongly denies that it misleads individuals and has suggested in its representations to the Notice oflntent 
that this instance was likely a misunderstanding. 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

the  caller took a  sum  of money from  the  FCA  Complainant  alter taking 

their debit card  details, but did not provide a payment reference number. 

Later,  on  10  February  2021,  having  received  insurance  paperwork from 

this  company,  and  upon  realising  that  they  were  insured  by  another 

company  already,  the  FCA  Complainant  attempted  to  cancel  the  policy 

and  seek  a  refund.  They  called  the  company  back  using  the  number 

detailed on  the insurance documents - 0203 4413093. Those documents 

named  the  company  as  'All  Appliance  UK',  with  a  footnote  stating  that 

"All Appliance UK is  a  trading style of ALLAPPLIANCESERVICES UK Ltd". 

The  FCA  Complainant  was  told  that  his  policy  would  be  cancelled, 

however  despite  numerous  follow-up  calls  and  letters  from  the  FCA 

Complainant, by the time of their complaint to the FCA,  their money had 

not been  refunded. 

17.  Following  this  referral,  the  Commissioner  conducted  research  to  see 

whether any  complaints  had  been  logged  with  the TPS  which  identified 

AUKL  or  its  trading  style.  Two  such  complaints  were  located,  with  one 

providing  the  Calling  Line  Identifier ("CLI")  of 0203  4413093,  and  the 

second  identifying a CLI  of 0333  4438517. 

18.  An  initial  investigation  letter was  sent to AUKL on  28 June  2021,  setting 

out the Commissioner's concerns with AUKL's compliance with PECR,  and 

providing copies of the TPS  complaints logged. The letter requested inter 

alia  details  of  any  Clls  used  by  AUKL,  together  with  details  for  the 

volume  of calls  made/connected  over a particular period;  details of how 

data  used  for  those  calls  was  sourced;  copies  of  any  data  protection 

policies  and  contractual  arrangements  with  third-party  data  providers; 

evidence  that  the  recipients  of  its  calls  had  provided  valid  notification 

(i.e.  consent)  to receive  those calls,  etc. 

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

19.  The  Commissioner  also  sent  Third  Party  Information  Notices  ("3PINs") 

on  29  June  2021  to  the  relevant  Communications  Service  Providers 

("CSP's")  for  the  two  Clls  identified  as  being  linked  to  AUKL.  The 

relevant CSP  for the 0333 4438517 was 

and  the  relevant  CSP  for 0203  4413093  was 

(" 

20.  Regarding the enquiries undertaken w i th - :  

a. 

responded  on  29 June 2021 and  stated the CLI  0333 

4438517 was  allocated  to 

b.  The  Commissioner wrote to - on  30  June  2021  and  received 

a  response  on  6  July  2021,  identifying  the  subscriber  of 0333 

4438517  since  1  May  2021  as  AUKL,  although 
it  was 
subsequently confirmed by 1111 on  4 July 2022 that this CLI was 
in  fact  allocated  to  AUKL  from  5  January  2021.  This  response 

also  provided  two  further  Clls  which  had  been  allocated  to 

AUKL since  2018:  0203 6349887 and  0144 4642998. 

c.  From  the  Call  Dialler Records  ("CDRs")  provided  by., it has 

been  possible to establish that from the Clls allocated to AUKL, 

there  had  been  211,487  connected  calls  made  by  AUKL 

between  1  January  2021  and  28  June  2021,  of which  99,313 

were  to  subscribers  who  had  been  registered  with  the TPS  for 

not less than  28  days 2 • 

21.  Regarding the enquiries undertaken  with 

2  The total of 99,313 was deduced by the Commissioner in July 2022 after he had conducted a final check against the 
TPS register. Initially, owing to  an administrative issue with the TPS screening portal provided by the Data & 
Marketing Association, the total of connected calls made to TPS-registered subscribers had been believed to  be 
98,801. 

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

a. 

responded  on  29  June  2021  stating  the  CLI  0203 

4413093 was  allocated  to 

( ' ' - " ) .  

b.  The  Commissioner sent a  3PIN  to 

on  29  June  2021, 

with a response being received the same day stating that "[t]he 

number on  the  order [0203  4413093]  doesn't show  up  but it 

could be  a  DOI number [. .. ]  A  Direct Dial In  (DOI)  is  a  phone 

number which  is also referred to as a  virtual phone number". 

22.  The  Commissioner made separate enquiries with the individual  who  had 

complained  to  the  TPS,  on  behalf of her mother,  about  receiving  a  call 

from  0203  4413093  on  15  February  2021.  The  individual  responded  to 

advise  that  her  mother's,  i.e.  the  complainant's,  CSP  was 

(''-"), and  that a  separate  report  had  been  logged  regarding  the  call 

from  0203  4413093  with  Trading  Standards.  The  details  of  that 

complaint report were shared with the Commissioner, and  indicated that 

a  sum  of money  had  been  taken  by AUKL  from  the  complainant's  bank 

account,  with 

it  being  noted 

that  the  complainant  "didn't  really 

remember"  what the  payment  was  for,  and  that  she  "felt [AUKL]  were 

bothering  her,  so  gave  them  her credit card details  to  stop  them  from 

pestering  her".  The  Complainant's  daughter  contacted  AUKL  by  letter 

and  telephone  and  later  received  a  refund,  having  explained  that  her 

mother did  not  require  their services,  and  that  being  85  years  old  and 

after  having  recently  suffered  a  stroke  she  had  "struggled  with  these 

decisions".  The  Complainant's  daughter  advised  that  at  the  time  of 

speaking with AUKL,  she didn't realise that her mother had  been "signed 

up  to  the call preference service [i.e.  the  TPS]  for a  few  years",  and  so 

should  not  have  received  such  unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls  in  any 

event.  A  copy  of the  correspondence  to/from  AUKL  was  also  provided 

identifying  AUKL  and  the CLI  0203  4413093.  In  light of the  information 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

received  from 

and  the  suggestion  that 0203  4413093  was  a 

DDI  number,  it appears  likely that the  daughter reported  the  CLI  0203 

4413093  as  the  number  which  called  the  Complainant  as  it  was  the 

number shown  on  the  paperwork which  the  Complainant received  from 

AUKL following  the call. 

23.  The Commissioner duly issued  a 3PIN  to - on  15 July 2021 requesting 

details  of  any  Clls  which  had  called  the  Complainant  between  14 

February  2021  and  16  February  2021  and  a  response  was  received  on 

10 August 2021. This response indicated that the CLI  0333 4438517 had 

called the complainant on  15 February 2021 at 13: 53  for 6 minutes. This 

CLI  had  already been  identified  from  the Commissioner's  enquiries with 

-as being  allocated  to AUKL at the time of the  call. 

24.  AUKL  provided  a  response  to  the  Commissioner's  initial  investigation 

letter on  16 July 2021,  advising that it uses  three  Clls:  0203  6349887, 

0144 4642998 and 0333 4438517. It also stated that it obtains data  lists 

from a third-party data provider: 

("Ill") and that 

created  "bespoke  lists  for [AUKL],  based  on  [AUKL 's]  requests  for 
-
landlines/mobile  numbers  of homeowners  that have purchased  certain 

brands  of white  goods.  [. .. ]  As part of [AUKL 's]  initial due  diligence  on 

the  company  and  their  methods, 

provided  [AUKL] 

with  assurances  at  the  outset  that  the  databases  would  be  screened 

against the TPS register to ensure that no registered TPS members would 

be  included  within  the  database.  [AUKL]  are  disappointed  to  hear that 

this  may  not  have  been  the  case,  and  [. .. ]  have  separately  made  a 

complaint  to 

in  respect  of this.  [. .. ]  Upon  receiving  [the 

Commissioner's] letter and becoming aware that [AUKL 's] database may 

have  included registered  TPS  members,  [AUKL] are  now in  the process 

of signing up to the  TPS  list and will be screening all telephone numbers 

against the list to ensure that this does not happen again in  the future". 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The  implication  from  this  statement  is  that  AUKL  had  not  previously 

conducted  its  own  TPS  screening  on  the  numbers  which  it  used  for  its 

direct marketing campaign. 

25. 

In  response  to  the  Commissioner's  request  for  valid  notification  (i.e. 

consent)  for  AUKL  to  contact  subscribers,  AUKL  states  that "For GDPR 

purposes,  we rely on the legitimate interest ground (rather than consent) 

to  carry  out such  marketing  i.e.  on  the  basis  that we  have  reasonable 

grounds to believe that the individuals will be interested in  our products 

by  virtue  of  the  relevant  survey  they  participated  in  and  consent 

provided  to 

to  receive  marketing  of a  similar nature.  [. .. ] 

For PECR  purposes  (and,  in  particular in  line  with  PECR  and  the  ICO's 

guidance  on  direct  marketing),  we  understand  that specific  consent is 

not required on the basis that the numbers are not listed within the TPS". 

26.  The Commissioner had  asked for AUKL to provide information about any 

contractual  arrangements  with  its  third-party  data  provider(s),  and 

details of any due diligence carried out to ensure the veracity of the data 

being  purchased.  AUKL  replied  stating  that "[w]hilst there  is  no  formal 

contract in place,  in  terms of due diligence, 

provided 

[AUKL]  with  very  strong  verbal  assurances  at  the  outset  of  [its] 

relationship,  which  [AUKL]  relied  on,  that  the  lists  would  be  screened 

against the  TPS  list and would be compliant with all applicable laws." 

27.  The  Commissioner had  also  requested  copies  of any  internal  customer 

contact  training  policies,  or  indeed  any  policies/procedures  regarding 

AUKL's  responsibilities  under PECR.  AUKL  confirmed  in  response  that it 

held  no  existing  written  policies  regarding  these  areas. 

28.  To  explain  the  complaints  received  by  the  TPS,  AUKL  stated  that  the 

complaints  were  "due  to  individuals  being  contacted  that  were  on  the 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

TPS  list - [AUKL] entrusted a  third party provider to provide a database 

that had been screened of such individuals.  [. .. ]  The  issue that arose here 

is that [AUKL] entrusted a third party provider who unfortunately did not 

meet the  assurances  provided  to  [AUKL]  re  screening  their databases 

against  the  TPS  list.  [AUKL]  acknowledge  and  apologise  for  any  calls 

made  to  the  TPS  registered  individuals  as  a  result  and  are  very 

disappointed that this has happened". 

29.  AUKL  also  stated  that  it "sought at the  outset (and  continue  to  seek) 

legal advice  to  ensure  that [its]  business  and practices are  compliant", 

however  no  further  evidence  or  details  have  been  provided  regarding 

what type of legal  advice was  sought. 

30.  AUKL  concluded  by  stating  that it would  be  terminating  its  relationship 

and  that  for  future  data  providers  it  will  "ensure  that 
with  -
comprehensive due diligence is carried out[. .. ]  and that a formal contract 

is  implemented. 

[. .. ]  [It]  will  also  ensure  that all  telephone  numbers 

provided are screened against the TPS  list". 

31.  The  Commissioner  sent  further  queries  to  AUKL  on  20  July  2021 

requesting  inter  alia  details  of  the  criteria  for  the  data  purchased  by 

AUKL,  and  received  a response  on  2 August 2021.  In its response,  AUKL 

confirmed that its criteria for data was homeowners with  landline/mobile 

numbers,  whose  appliances matched  particular brands. 

32.  On  19  August  2021,  the  Commissioner  sent  an  'end  of  investigation' 

letter to AUKL. 

33.  The  Commissioner  sent  a  final  email  to  AUKL  on  21  December  2021 

stating that he  had  evidence of a significant number of calls  being  made 

to  TPS-registered  subscribers  during 

the 

relevant  period.  AUKL 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

responded  on  5 January 2022 reiterating  its earlier position, but offering 

no  significant further information. 

34.  The  Commissioner's  investigation  has  found  that  between  1  January 

2021  and  28  June  2021,  AUKL  made  211,487  connected  unsolicited 

direct marketing calls,  of which 99,313 were to individuals who had been 

registered  with  the  TPS  for  not  less  than  28  days.  AUKL  had  relied  on 

verbal  assurances from  its third-party data  provider that the data  it had 

purchased had been  screened against the TPS  register.  It did not conduct 

its  own  screening,  or seek  to  obtain  evidence  of valid  notification  from 

the subscribers it intended to call  that they did not object to receiving  its 

direct marketing calls. 

35.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the 99,313 calls were all  made for the 

purposes of direct marketing  as  defined  by section  122(5) DPA18. 

36.  The  Commissioner  has  made  the  above 

findings  of  fact  on 

the 

balance  of probabilities. 

37.  The  Commissioner  has  considered  whether  those  facts  constitute  a 

contravention  of regulation  21  of PECR  by AUKL  and,  if so,  whether the 

conditions of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

The contravention 

38.  The  Commissioner finds  that AUKL  contravened  regulation  21  of PECR. 

39.  The  Commissioner finds that the  contravention  was  as  follows: 

40.  Between  1  January  2021  and  28  June  2021,  AUKL  used  a  public 

telecommunications  service 

for 

the  purposes  of  making  99,313 

12 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

unsolicited  calls  for direct marketing  purposes  to  subscribers  where  the 

number  allocated  to  the  subscriber  in  respect  of the  called  line  was  a 

number listed  on  the  register of numbers  kept  by the  Commissioner in 

accordance  with  regulation  26,  contrary to regulation  2l(l)(b) of PECR. 

41.  The Commissioner is  also satisfied for the purposes of regulation  21  that 

these 99,313 unsolicited direct marketing calls were made to subscribers 

who  had  registered  with  the TPS  at least  28  days  prior to  receiving  the 

calls,  and who for the purposes of regulation  21( 4) had not notified AUKL 

that they did  not object to receiving  such  calls. 

42.  For  such  notification  to  be  valid  under  regulation  21(4),  the  individual 

must  have  taken  a  clear  and  positive  action  to  override  their  TPS 

registration and  indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls from 

the company. The notification should reflect the individual's choice about 

whether  or  not  they  are  willing  to  receive  marketing  calls.  Therefore, 

where signing up to use a product or service is conditional upon receiving 

marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate how this constitutes 

a  clear and  positive  notification  of the  individual's willingness to  receive 

such  calls. 

43.  The  notification  must  clearly  indicate  the  individual's  willingness  to 

receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on  individuals 

opting  in  to  marketing  communications  generally,  unless  it is  clear that 

this will  include telephone calls. 

44.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual's willingness to 

receive  marketing  calls  from  that company specifically.  Notifications will 

not be  valid  for the purposes of regulation  21( 4)  if individuals are  asked 

to  agree  to  receive  marketing  calls 

from  "similar  organisations", 

"partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

13 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

45. 

In this instance, AUKL  relied  wholly on  verbal  assurances from  its third 

party  data  provider  that  the  data  being  acquired  had  been  screened 

against the TPS  register.  It did  not have in  place  a written  contract,  and 

did  not undertake any checks  against the TPS  register itself. 

46.  The  Commissioner's  Direct  Marketing  Guidance  is  clear  [at  Paragraph 

180] that when relying on  a marketing list, as AUKL has done, "[i]t would 

be prudent for a buyer to have a  written contract in place confirming the 

reliability of the list,  as  well as making its own checks.  It goes on  to say 

[at Paragraph  185] that "[b]ought-in call lists  must always be  screened 

against  the  TPS.  And  they  should  also  be  screened  against  the 

organisation's  own  in-house  suppression  (do  not call)  list,  to  ensure  it 

doesn't contact anyone  who  has already said they want to opt out of its 

marketing". 

47. 

In the  circumstances,  the  Commissioner is  satisfied  that there has  been 

a  contravention  of regulation  21  of PECR.  The  Commissioner  has  gone 

on  to consider whether the conditions  under section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

48.  The  Commissioner 

is  satisfied 

that 

the  contravention 

identified 

above was serious. This is because there have been  multiple breaches of 

regulation  21  by AUKL arising  from the organisation's activities between 

1  January  2021  and  28  June  2021,  and  this  led  to  99,313  unsolicited 

direct  marketing  calls  being  made  to  subscribers  who  were  registered 

with  the  TPS  and  who  had  not  notified  AUKL  that they  were  willing  to 

receive  such  calls. 

14 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

49.  The  Commissioner is  concerned  by the  apparent  pressure-tactics which 

appear  from  the  complaints  received  to  have  been  applied  to  older 

individuals  during  AUKL's  calls 3 •  For  instance,  one  of  the  complaints 

received  suggested  that AUKL  had  "insisted"  that the  recipient provided 

their card details to it, and the second complaint stated that the recipient 

of the  call  ''just  wanted  [AUKL]  to  go  away"  and  so  handed  over their 

credit card  details. Of the  complainants,  the  Commissioner understands 

that  one  had  recently  suffered  a  stroke  and  had  reduced  capacity  as  a 

result,  with  a second  suffering  from  dementia. 

50.  The  Commissioner 

is 

therefore  satisfied 

that  condition 

(a) 

from 

section  SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

51.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above  was  deliberate.  The  Commissioner  does  not  consider  that  AUKL 

deliberately set out to contravene  PECR  in  this instance. 

52.  The  Commissioner  has  gone  on  to  consider  whether the  contravention 

identified  above  was  negligent.  This  consideration  comprises  two 

elements: 

53.  Firstly,  he  has  considered  whether AUKL  knew  or  ought  reasonably  to 

have  known  that there  was  a  risk  that this  contravention  would  occur. 

He  is  satisfied  that  this  condition  is  met.  AUKL  stated  during  the 

investigation  that  "[it is] fully aware of the  GDPR  and PECR  issues  that 

heavily  govern  this  area.  [AUKL]  understand  that  the  telemarketing 

3 It is noted that AUKL has objected in its representations to the Commissioner's finding that pressure-tactics were 
applied, citing its previously-provided script as  evidence, however the Commissioner is content to  maintain this 
finding in light of the content of the complaints received. 

15 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

industry has gained a bad reputation in recent years for disregarding the 

regulations  and  taking  advantage  of  individuals,  however,  [AUKL 's] 

compliance  with  the privacy regulations and the  reputation  of [AUKL 's] 

business is  extremely important to [AUKL]". 

54.  AUKL  also  made 

reference  during 

the 

investigation 

to 

the 

Commissioner's  guidance  in  relation  to  the  requirements  under  PECR, 

demonstrating at least an  awareness of both the relevant legislation  and 

the  Commissioner's  role  in  overseeing that legislation. 

55.  The  Commissioner's Direct Marketing  Guidance,  as  referenced  by AUKL, 

includes  detailed  advice 

for  companies  carrying  out  marketing, 

explaining 

their  legal 

requirements  under  PECR. 

It  explains 

the 

circumstances under which organisations are able to carry out marketing 

over the phone, by text, by email, by post or by fax.  Specifically, it states 

that  live  calls  must  not  be  made  to  any  subscriber  registered  with  the 

TPS,  unless the subscriber has specifically notified the company that they 

do  not  object  to  receiving  such  calls.  In  case  organisations  remain 

unclear on  their obligations, the ICO  operates a telephone  helpline.  ICO 

communications  about  previous  enforcement  action  where  businesses 

have  not complied  with  PECR  are  also  readily available. 

56.  Furthermore, the Commissioner has evidence that the TPS  wrote to AUKL 

at its registered  office  address for one  of the two complaints  referred  to 

in  this  Notice  (i.e.  regarding  the  unsolicited  call  made  on  15  February 

2021). That the TPS  had  written to AUKL regarding  a complaint over the 

period  of the  contravention  should  have  made  AUKL  aware  of the  risk 

that such  contraventions may occur and  had  indeed  occurred. 

57. 

It is therefore reasonable to suppose that AUKL were,  or at least should 

have  been  aware of its responsibilities in  this area. 

16 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

58.  Secondly,  the  Commissioner  has  gone  on  to  consider  whether  AUKL 

failed  to  take  reasonable  steps  to  prevent the  contravention.  Again,  he 

is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

59.  The  Commissioner's  direct  marketing  guidance  makes  clear  that 

organisations  acquiring  marketing 

lists 

from  a 

third  party  must 

undertake  rigorous  checks  to  satisfy themselves that the  personal  data 

was obtained fairly and  lawfully, that their details would be  passed  along 

for direct marketing to the specifically named organisation  in  the case  of 

live calls,  and that they have the necessary notifications for the purposes 

of regulation  21(4).  It  is  not acceptable  to  rely  on  assurances  given  by 

third  party  suppliers  without  undertaking  proper  due  diligence.  In  this 

instance  AUKL  relied  wholly  on  verbal  assurances,  and 

failed 

to 

undertake  any  checks  of its  own  against  the  TPS  register.  This  cannot 

constitute reasonable  due diligence. 

60.  Reasonable  steps 

in 

these  circumstances  may  have 

included 

the 

implementation  of  an  appropriate  contract  with  its  third-party  data 

provider,  with  a  view  to  protecting  both  itself and  the  privacy  rights  of 

the individuals whose data was being purchased;  and conducting its own 

TPS  checks  regardless  of any  assurances  given  by the  third-party  data 

provider. 

61.  Given  the volume  of calls  made  in  contravention  of regulation  21  PECR, 

it is  clear that AUKL failed  to take those,  or any,  reasonable  steps. 

62.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

17 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

63.  Taking  into  account  the  volume  of  unsolicited  direct  marketing  calls 

made 

in  contravention  of 

the 

legislation, 

the  duration  of 

the 

contravention,  and  the  negligent  nature  of  the  contravention,  when 

examined  against  comparator cases  the  Commissioner has  determined 

that an  appropriate  starting  point for the  penalty in  this  case  should  be 

£85,000. 

64.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  following  aggravating 

features of this case: 

•  AUKL conducted  its business,  in  contravention  of PECR,  with  a view 

to maximising  its turnover and  potential  profits. 

65.  Despite the above aggravating feature, the Commissioner considers that 

the penalty amount should  remain  at £85,000. 

66.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  following  mitigating 

feature of this case: 

• 

In 

light  of 

the  Commissioner's 

investigation,  AUKL  has 

acknowledged the importance of undertaking its own TPS  screening 

in  future.  It  has  stated  that  it will  undertake  necessary  measures 

to address the Commissioner's concerns and  put in  place  adequate 

policies  in  order to  prevent  further  contraventions.  However,  it  is 

noted  that the  Commissioner  has  not yet  been  provided  with  any 

evidence that such  steps  have  been  taken. 

67.  Having  considered  the  above  aggravating  and  mitigating  features,  the 

Commissioner is  minded to maintain  a penalty of £85,000. 

18 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

68.  For the reasons  explained  above,  the Commissioner is  satisfied that the 

conditions from  section  SSA  (1)  DPA  have  been  met in  this case.  He  is 

also  satisfied  that the procedural  rights under section  SSB  have  been 

complied  with. 

69.  The  latter has  included the issuing  of a  Notice of Intent, in  which  the 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking.  In  reaching  his final 

view, the Commissioner has taken  into account the  representations 

made by AUKL on  this matter. 

70.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty 

in  this case. 

71.  The  Commissioner  has  considered  whether,  in  the  circumstances,  he 

should  exercise  his  discretion  so  as  to issue  a monetary penalty 

72.  The  Commissioner  has  considered  the  likely  impact  of  a  monetary 

penalty on  AUKL.  He  has  decided  on  the  information that is  available to 

him  that  a  penalty  remains  the  appropriate  course  of  action  in  the 

circumstances of this case. 

73.  The  Commissioner's  underlying  objective 

in 

imposing  a  monetary 

penalty  notice  is  to  promote  compliance  with  PECR.  The  making  of 

unsolicited direct marketing calls is a matter of significant public concern. 

A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general  encouragement 

towards compliance with the law,  or at least as  a deterrent against non 

compliance,  on  the  part  of  all  persons  running  businesses  currently 

engaging  in  these  practices.  This  is  an  opportunity to reinforce the need 

for businesses to ensure  that they are  only telephoning  consumers who 

are  not registered  with  the TPS  and/or specifically  indicate that they do 

not object to receiving these calls. 

19 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

74. 

In  making  his  decision, the Commissioner has  had  regard  to the factors 

set out in  s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015;  including:  the nature 

and  level  of risks  associated  with  non-compliance,  including  the  risks  to 

economic growth; the steps taken by the business to achieve compliance 

and  reasons  for its failure;  the willingness  and  ability of the  business to 

address  non-compliance;  the  likely  impact of the  proposed  intervention 

on  the  business,  and  the  likely  impact  of the  proposed  intervention  on 

the  wider  business  community,  both 

in 

terms  of  deterring  non 

compliance  and  economic benefits to  legitimate businesses. 

75.  For  these  reasons,  the  Commissioner  has  decided  to  issue  a  monetary 

penalty in  this case. 

The amount of the penalty 

76.  Taking  into account all  of the above, the Commissioner has decided that 

a  penalty  in  the  sum  of £85,000  (eighty-five thousand  pounds)  is 

reasonable  and  proportionate  given  the  particular facts  of the  case  and 

the  underlying  objective in  imposing the penalty. 

Conclusion 

77.  The  monetary  penalty  must  be  paid  to  the  Commissioner's  office  by 

BACS transfer or cheque by 5 January 2023 at the latest. The monetary 

penalty  is  not  kept  by  the  Commissioner  but  will  be  paid  into  the 

Consolidated  Fund  which  is  the  Government's  general  bank  account  at 

the  Bank of England. 

78. 

If the Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 4 

January  2023 the  Commissioner will  reduce  the  monetary  penalty  by 

20 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

20%  to  £68,000  (sixty-eight  thousand  pounds).  However,  you 

should  be  aware  that the  early  payment discount is  not available  if you 

decide to exercise your right of appeal. 

79.  There  is  a  right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

(a) the  imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b)  the  amount  of  the  penalty  specified 

in  the  monetary  penalty 

notice. 

80.  Any  notice  of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28  days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 

81. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  Annex  1. 

82.  The  Commissioner  will  not  take  action  to  enforce  a  monetary  penalty 

unless: 

•  the  period  specified  within  the  notice  within  which  a  monetary 

penalty  must be  paid  has  expired  and  all  or any  of the  monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant  appeals  against the  monetary  penalty  notice  and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

•  the  period  for  appealing  against  the  monetary  penalty  and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

21 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

83. 

In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland,  the  monetary  penalty  is 

recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High Court.  In Scotland, 

the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in  the same manner as  an  extract 

registered  decree  arbitral  bearing  a warrant for execution  issued  by the 

sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

Dated  the  28th  day of November 2022. 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

22 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS  OF  APPEAL  AGAINST  DECISIONS  OF  THE  COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998  gives  any  person 

upon whom a monetary penalty notice has been  served a right of appeal 

to the First-tier Tribunal  (Information Rights)  (the 'Tribunal') against the 

notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the  notice  against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the  law;  or 

b) 

to  the  extent  that  the  notice  involved  an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the  Commissioner,  that he  ought to  have  exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the  Tribunal  will  allow  the  appeal  or  substitute  such  other  decision  as 

could  have  been  made  by  the  Commissioner.  In  any  other  case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may  bring  an  appeal  by  serving  a  notice  of  appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 

23 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

LEl  8DJ 

Telephone:  0300  123 4504 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice  of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the notice. 

b) 

If your notice  of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has  extended the time for complying  with  this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your  name  and  address/name  and  address  of  your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address  where  documents  may  be  sent or delivered  to 

you; 

c) 

the name and  address  of the Information Commissioner; 

d) 

details  of  the  decision  to  which  the  proceedings  relate; 

e) 

the 

result 

that 

you 

are 

seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must  provide  with  the  notice  of  appeal  a  copy  of  the 

monetary 

penalty 

notice 

or 

variation 

notice; 

24 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

h) 

if you  have  exceeded  the  time  limit  mentioned  above  the 

notice  of appeal  must  include  a  request  for  an  extension  of time 

and the reason  why the notice of appeal  was not provided  in  time. 

5. 

Before  deciding whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an  appeal a party may 

conduct his case  himself or may be  represented  by any person  whom  he 

may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory  provisions  concerning  appeals  to  the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are  contained  in  section  55B(S)  of,  and 

Schedule  6  to,  the  Data  Protection  Act  1998,  and  Tribunal  Procedure 

(First-tier  Tribunal) 

(General  Regulatory  Chamber)  Rules  2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

25 

