                                                                  
                                                   

 

Press release from the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments from November 13, 2020

 
 
 
 

 

 

Data protection when using video conferencing systems

 
 
The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and
Länder (DSK) has published an “orientation guide for video conferencing systems”. In this
the data protection requirements for the implementation of video conferencing
by companies, authorities and other organizations. pro-
chen are both responsible persons who operate a video conferencing service themselves or
operated by service providers as well as users of video conferencing systems who
offered as an online service. In addition to the guidance, the
DSK a checklist in which the legal and technical requirements for video con-
reference systems are summarized in a clear form.

The reason for the creation of the orientation guide and the associated checklist
increasing uncertainties among users and those responsible in
related to the use of video conferencing systems. The guidance describes
which technical and organizational measures are to be implemented. at the Nut-
video conferencing systems, personal data of the participating
processed by the persons and, where applicable, by third parties, including their
ments in sound and image. This data processing requires the implementation
the video conference controller has a legal basis. Will a video conference
service provider used, the personal data for their own purposes or
purposes of third parties is a legal basis for the associated disclosure
regularly difficult to justify. Compared to a contract
It must therefore be ensured in the order processing contract that this includes the personal
personal data of the participating persons only on the instructions of the person responsible
chen and not processed for own purposes.

In addition, those responsible are obliged to data economy. Only they are allowed
personal data are processed that are necessary to achieve the purpose
are. This principle is already in the selection, but also in the setup and operation
of a video conferencing system.

 

 

