
The Agency for Personal Data Protection, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, continues with a series of free online workshops for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The interactive workshop "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)" was held today, December 1, for entrepreneurs from the Karlovac and Lika-Senj counties. Thus, about two hundred participants had the opportunity to acquire the necessary knowledge for the adequate implementation of the provisions of the GDPR, which is mandatory for all companies in the European Union, as well as for those companies that have data from European citizens.
During the opening of the workshop, in his welcome speech, the director of the Agency for Personal Data Protection Zdravko Vukić thanked the Croatian Chamber of Commerce for their cooperation and wished all entrepreneurs success in their future work. "Our aim is to help and facilitate entrepreneurs in aligning their business with the provisions of the General Regulation. Although we are in a pandemic, we have found an effective model to help micro, small and medium enterprises to understand that investing in personal data protection and information security is not an administrative burden, but an investment that will pay off, "said Zdravko Vukic.
"It is extremely important to raise the awareness of entrepreneurs about the importance of data protection because more and more businesses are moving to the digital sphere. Therefore, in cooperation with AZOP, we organize these workshops through which we primarily present to small and medium-sized companies their obligations in this regard, and today's participants will have the opportunity to get answers to all specific questions that bother them in practice, "said Drazen Lucic. Head of the Information Security Department of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, announcing that the cycle of workshops will continue next year.
In addition to lectures on the legislative framework on personal data protection, the interactive workshop also consists of practical exercises, but also provides an opportunity for entrepreneurs to ask questions during the workshop to clarify any concerns.
During the workshop, everything that entrepreneurs need to know about data protection in their business was explained in detail, from training of managers and executors of processing, through keeping records of processing activities, rights of respondents and privacy policy, to processing personal data via cookies, technical and organizational measures for the protection of personal data and reporting of personal data breaches.
They were also explained the principles that must be followed when processing personal data. Thus, it is not possible to process data outside the purpose for which it was collected. They must be appropriate, limited in purpose, to what is necessary and kept only for as long as is necessary for the purpose for which they are processed.
The workshops are conducted within the EU project ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for Small and Medium Enterprises) co-financed by the European Union Program for Rights, Equality and Citizenship, and coordinated by the Personal Data Protection Agency, in partnership with the Data Protection Commission. the Irish Data Protection Supervisor and the Vrije University of Brussels.
The next workshop will be held on December 8, and will be intended for micro, small and medium entrepreneurs from Krapina-Zagorje County.
