 
 
 
 
 
 

711.448.1

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

October 19, 2021

"Time of upheaval": Maja Smoltczyk's term of office as BlnBDI ends

 
Maja Smoltczyk's 5-year term as Berliner ends on October 27, 2021
Commissioner for data protection and freedom of information (BlnBDI) after almost six
years. Since Parliament also during the 9-month period permitted by law
Extension of Mrs. Smoltczyk's term of office could not agree on a successor,
From October 28th until a new election, her deputy Volker Brozio will take over
authority management.
 
Maja Smoltczyk's tenure was marked by fundamental upheavals in data protection:
The entry into force of the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
immediately applicable in all European member states immediately after their appointment
ushered in a new era – with significant challenges for everyone
data-processing offices in business and administration as well as for the supervisory authorities.
These now found themselves in a Europe-wide network of cooperation, for
the completely new process had to be developed.
 
“The Europeanization of data protection law is the answer to a cross-border
digitized world to protect citizens and their fundamental rights,” says
Smoltczyk. With this in mind, the Berlin supervisory authority at national and
at the European level very intensively in the process of practical implementation of the new
introduced European rules. Numerous interpretations that are binding throughout Europe have been made
Written with the significant participation of the Berlin authorities. Just as an example here is the
intensive participation in the development of recommendations for the implementation of
European Court of Justice defined in its Schrems II judgment
Requirements for the transfer of data to third countries mentioned in support
data-exporting companies are intended.
 
“It should be noted that the GDPR has public awareness of the need for protection
of personal data has been strengthened enormously," says Maja Smoltczyk, head of the agency. This is
not least in the significant and lasting increase in entries and inquiries
of the Berlin supervisory authority since the GDPR came into effect in May 2018. Around
The work processes of the authority had to meet these new requirements
comprehensively modernized and adapted to the new requirements. "It is gratifying
that, after intensive negotiations, it was possible to find an urgently needed personnel
and financial reinforcement of the agency to meet these challenges through the
to reach the Berlin House of Representatives,” says Smoltczyk.
 
Thematically, the time was mainly characterized by questions of data protection in the course of the
Digitization of public administration and schools, the processing of data in the

 
Responsible: Simon Rebiger

Office: Kerstin Stein

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

Berlin hospitals and in the public health administration, through advice
of business and administration with regard to the implementation of the DS-GVO, the support
countless legislative projects and in the past two years by a wide range of questions
in connection with measures to combat the pandemic.
 
Under Maja Smoltczyk, the authority set up a start-up consultation hour to encourage young
To advise commercial companies on how to comply with data protection requirements from the outset
can be implemented in the respective company concept. Were also developed
Teaching materials and a website especially for elementary school students and their parents
and teachers so that even the youngest are familiar with the secure handling of their data on the Internet
and parents and teachers in teaching this complex subject
support. These offers are enjoying enormous popularity and are now more solid
Part of the work of the Berlin authority.
 
With its testing of video conferencing systems, which has received attention far beyond the Berlin area
the authority not only provided orientation during and after the pandemic, but also a
significantly expanded range of data protection-compliant products. In addition, they created
new powers of the data protection supervisory authorities to sanction data protection
Violators also have new ways of enforcing European rules. At the
Development of a German and subsequently a European fine concept
the authority played a key role. A multi-sectoral economy
Review of cookie banners has started and will be in authority for some time
claim.
 
The extremely accelerated digitization of
Society and working life pointed through a magnifying glass to comprehensive
Backlog in the implementation of fundamental data protection requirements. here
have meanwhile been able to set an important course and have also achieved pleasing successes
be, however, for the successor to Maja Smoltczyk in this context
there is an enormous need for action.
 
In the field of freedom of information, Ms. Smoltczyk not only opted for a modern
Transparency Act in Berlin, but also intensively for the formulation of demands for
Transparency of algorithmic procedures used in public administration, which
ultimately also the International Conference of Freedom of Information Officers
has made.
 
Maja Smoltczyk at the end of her term:
 
"It was a very exciting and challenging time and I am grateful that I was able to take part in the
allowed to help shape these far-reaching changes. In an increasing
digitized world are the responsible handling of personal data and
the right to informational self-determination is essential so that people do not go to the pure
become the object of economic or political interests. Sovereign people need
a protected space where they are not observed so that they can develop freely
be able. Ultimately, data protection is the fundamental legal corrective to digitization.
 
I very much regret that, despite announcements to the contrary, no evaluation of the
Berlin Data Protection Act has taken place. Working towards it will be just as much as working for
a transparency law worthy of its name will be the task of my successor. Of the
I therefore wish the future leadership in this important office a lot of energy, fortune and forward

 



- 3 -

above all steadfastness. She or he will focus on an outstandingly qualified authority
who can leave ready to face future challenges with a lot
Commitment and creative joy to master. I thank my employees
employees for their exemplary work. Without their expertise, their enthusiasm and their
Idealism, the successes of the past few years would not have been achievable.”

 

