

Bonn, May 11, 2022


Press release 8/2022


  BfDI welcomes the commitment of the G7 digital ministers to democratic values in international data traffic
The BfDI, Professor Ulrich Kelber, welcomes the declaration and the action plan to strengthen free and trusting data traffic (Data Free Flow with Trust / DFFT) adopted today by the digital ministers under the German G7 presidency.



Source: BPA/BfDI

Professor Kelber emphasizes the importance of DFFT: We all want the benefits of a global data space. However, this is only possible in accordance with democratic principles and the rule of law. I therefore welcome the fact that the G7 digital ministers underlined the importance of democratic values for DFFT in their statement today and that the G7 action plan on DFFT will be continued under the German G7 presidency. The data protection authorities of the G7 countries will play a constructive role in this process. To this end, a roundtable of the G7 data protection authorities will take place in September, which I will chair.
The DFFT action plan is intended to contribute to more interoperability and increased cooperation between the supervisory authorities at international level in the future.
The data protection authorities of the G7 regularly exchange information on technological issues and the enforcement of data protection. The BfDI is organizing this year's roundtable of the G7 data protection authorities in Bonn.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











