


Press release 9/2023


  5 years GDPR - General Data Protection Regulation as a benchmark in the digital landscape
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection (BayLfD) and the European Data Protection Commissioner (EDPS) organized a joint discussion event on May 23 in Brussels to mark the fifth anniversary of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).



Source: BfDI - DH

The data protection officers, together with high-ranking representatives of the legislative institutions of the EU and the European Court of Justice, drew up an interim assessment of the practical application of the GDPR.
BayLfD Professor Dr. Thomas Petri: The data subject rights of the GDPR have proven their worth for five years. They must continue to show their full potential in the future. Because in its declaration on digital rights and principles for the digital decade, the European Union has placed people at the center of digital change and wants to fully respect their fundamental rights in this context as well.
BfDI Professor Ulrich Kelber emphasizes the challenges of further legislation: The EU proposals as part of the EU data strategy are all important. From a fundamental rights and data protection point of view, it is crucial that the EU legislator now finds the right balance between the interests of the public, science and business and the interests of the individual in protecting privacy. This is particularly relevant in the area of sensitive health data.
All speakers emphasized the milestone character of the GDPR, which is internationally regarded as the "gold standard" of data protection legislation. There was consensus that enforcement of the GDPR has worked well over the past five years, but further steps are needed to ensure broad and effective enforcement. The plans presented by EU Justice Commissioner Reynders for an EU regulation to harmonize cross-border cases therefore found support. The relationship between the GDPR and the legislative projects within the framework of the EU digital strategy was also discussed, in particular the proposal for a regulation on artificial intelligence (AI-Act) and the proposal for a European Health Data Space (EHDS). There were mixed views as to whether this was accompanied by a shift in the meaning of data protection from a personal to a market-oriented approach.

To the event video
Video recording of the event "5th Anniversary of the GDPR: Still a benchmark in the EU digital landscape?"




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          Pursue

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











