 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidelines 3/2019 on processing of personal data 

through video devices 

 

Version 2.0 

Adopted on 29 January 2020 

 

 

1 

Adopted 

Version history 

Version 2.1 

26 February 2020 

Amending material mistake 

Version 2.0 

29 January 2020 

Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation 

Version 1.0 

10 July 2019 

Adoption of the Guidelines for public consultation 

 

 

 

Adopted 

 

2 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 5 

Scope of application ......................................................................................................................... 7 

2.1 

2.2 

2.3 

Personal Data ........................................................................................................................... 7 

Application of the Law Enforcement Directive, LED (EU2016/680) ........................................ 7 

Household exemption .............................................................................................................. 7 

3 

Lawfulness of processing ................................................................................................................. 9 

3.1 

Legitimate interest, Article 6 (1) (f) .......................................................................................... 9 

3.1.1 

3.1.2 

3.1.3 

Existence of legitimate interests ...................................................................................... 9 

Necessity of processing .................................................................................................. 10 

Balancing of interests ..................................................................................................... 11 

Necessity to perform a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official 

3.2 
authority vested in the controller, Article 6 (1) (e) ............................................................................ 13 

3.3 

Consent, Article 6 (1) (a) ........................................................................................................ 14 

4 

Disclosure of video footage to third parties .................................................................................. 15 

4.1 

4.2 

Disclosure of video footage to third parties in general ......................................................... 15 

Disclosure of video footage to law enforcement agencies.................................................... 15 

5 

Processing of special categories of data ........................................................................................ 17 

5.1 

5.2 

General considerations when processing biometric data ..................................................... 18 

Suggested measures to minimize the risks when processing biometric data ....................... 21 

6 

Rights of the data subject .............................................................................................................. 22 

6.1 

6.2 

Right to access ........................................................................................................................ 22 

Right to erasure and right to object ....................................................................................... 23 

6.2.1 

6.2.2 

Right to erasure (Right to be forgotten) ........................................................................ 23 

Right to object ................................................................................................................ 24 

7 

Transparency and information obligations .................................................................................... 26 

7.1 

First layer information (warning sign) .................................................................................... 26 

7.1.1 

7.1.2 

Positioning of the warning sign ...................................................................................... 26 

Content of the first layer ................................................................................................ 26 

7.2 

Second layer information ....................................................................................................... 27 

Storage periods and obligation to erasure .................................................................................... 28 

Technical and organisational measures ......................................................................................... 28 

8 

9 

9.1 

9.2 

9.3 

Overview of video surveillance system .................................................................................. 29 

Data protection by design and by default ............................................................................. 30 

Concrete examples of relevant measures ............................................................................. 30 

Adopted 

 

3 

9.3.1 

9.3.2 

Organisational measures ............................................................................................... 31 

Technical measures ........................................................................................................ 31 

10 

Data protection impact assessment .......................................................................................... 33 

 

 

 

Adopted 

 

4 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter “GDPR”), 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 
 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES 

1 

INTRODUCTION 

1. 

The intensive use of video devices has an impact on citizen’s behaviour. Significant implementation of 
such tools in many spheres of the individuals’ life will put an additional pressure on the individual to 
prevent the detection of what might be perceived as anomalies. De facto, these technologies may limit 
the  possibilities  of  anonymous  movement  and  anonymous  use  of  services  and  generally  limit  the 
possibility of remaining unnoticed. Data protection implications are massive.  

2.  While individuals might be comfortable with video surveillance set up for a certain security purpose 
for  example,  guarantees  must  be  taken  to  avoid  any  misuse  for  totally  different  and  –  to  the  data 
subject – unexpected purposes (e.g. marketing purpose, employee performance monitoring etc.). In 
addition,  many  tools  are  now  implemented  to  exploit  the  images  captured  and  turn  traditional 
cameras into smart cameras. The amount of data generated by the video, combined with these tools 
and techniques increase the risks of secondary use (whether related or not to the purpose originally 
assigned to the system) or even the risks of misuse. The general principles in GDPR (Article 5), should 
always be carefully considered when dealing with video surveillance. 

3. 

Video surveillance systems in many ways change the way professionals from the private and public 
sector interact in private or public places for the purpose of enhancing security, obtaining audience 
analysis,  delivering  personalized  advertising,  etc.  Video  surveillance  has  become  high  performing 
through  the  growing  implementation  of  intelligent  video  analysis.  These  techniques  can  be  more 
intrusive  (e.g.  complex  biometric  technologies)  or  less  intrusive  (e.g.  simple  counting  algorithms). 
Remaining  anonymous  and  preserving  one’s  privacy  is  in  general  increasingly  difficult.  The  data 
protection issues raised in each situation may differ, so will the legal analysis when using one or the 
other of these technologies.  

4. 

In addition to privacy issues, there are also risks related to possible malfunctions of these devices and 
the biases they may induce. Researchers report that software used for facial identification, recognition, 
or analysis performs differently based on the age, gender, and ethnicity of the person it’s identifying. 

 

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 

Adopted 

 

5 

Algorithms would perform based on different demographics, thus, bias in facial recognition threatens 
to reinforce the prejudices of society. That is why, data controllers must also ensure that biometric 
data processing deriving from video surveillance be subject to regular assessment of its relevance and 
sufficiency of guarantees provided.  

Video surveillance is not by default a necessity when there are other means to achieve the underlying 
purpose. Otherwise we risk a change in cultural norms leading to the acceptance of lack of privacy as 
the general outset. 

These guidelines aim at giving guidance on how to apply the GDPR in relation to processing personal 
data through video devices. The examples are not exhaustive, the general reasoning can be applied to 
all potential areas of use.   

5. 

6. 

 

 

Adopted 

 

6 

2  SCOPE OF APPLICATION2 

7. 

2.1  Personal Data 
Systematic  automated  monitoring  of  a  specific  space  by  optical  or  audio-visual  means,  mostly  for 
property  protection  purposes,  or  to  protect  individual´s  life  and  health,  has  become  a  significant 
phenomenon of our days. This activity brings about collection and retention of pictorial or audio-visual 
information on all persons entering the monitored space that are identifiable on basis of their looks or 
other specific elements. Identity of these persons may be established on grounds of these details. It 
also enables further processing of personal data as to the persons´ presence and behaviour in the given 
space. The potential risk of misuse of these data grows in relation to the dimension of the monitored 
space as well as to the number of persons frequenting the space. This fact is reflected by the General 
Data Protection Regulation in the Article 35 (3) (c) which requires the carrying out of a data protection 
impact assessment in case of a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale, as 
well  as  in  Article  37  (1)  (b)  which  requires  processors  to  designate  a  data  protection  officer,  if  the 
processing operation by its nature entails regular and systematic monitoring of data subjects.  

8. 

However, the Regulation does not apply to processing of data that has no reference to a person, e.g. 
if an individual cannot be identified, directly or indirectly. 

Example: The GDPR is not applicable for fake cameras (i.e. any camera that is not functioning 
as a camera and thereby is not processing any personal data). However, in some Member States 
it might be subject to other legislation.  

Example: Recordings from a high altitude only fall under the scope of the GDPR if under the 
circumstances the data processed can be related to a specific person. 

Example: A video camera is integrated in a car for providing parking assistance. If the camera is 
constructed  or  adjusted  in  such  a  way  that  it  does  not collect  any  information  relating  to  a 
natural person (such as licence plates or information which could identify passers-by) the GDPR 
does not apply. 

9. 

 

2.2  Application of the Law Enforcement Directive, LED (EU2016/680) 

10.  Notably  processing  of  personal  data  by  competent  authorities  for  the  purposes  of  prevention, 
investigation,  detection  or  prosecution  of  criminal  offences  or  the  execution  of  criminal  penalties, 
including  the  safeguarding  against  and  the  prevention  of  threats  to  public  security,  falls  under  the 
directive EU2016/680. 

2.3  Household exemption 

11.  Pursuant to Article 2 (2)  (c), the processing of  personal  data by a natural person in the course of a 
purely personal or household activity, which can also include online activity, is out of the scope of the 
GDPR.3 

12. 

This  provision  –  the  so-called  household  exemption  –  in  the  context  of  video  surveillance  must  be 
narrowly construed. Hence, as considered by the European Court of Justice, the so called “household 

 

2 The EDPB notes that where the GDPR so allows, specific requirements in national legislation might apply. 

3 See also Recital 18. 

Adopted 

 

7 

exemption” must “be interpreted as relating only to activities which are carried out in the course of 
private or family life of individuals, which is clearly not the case with the processing of personal data 
consisting in publication on the internet so that those data are made accessible to an indefinite number 
of  people”.4  Furthermore,  if  a  video  surveillance  system,  to  the  extent  it  involves  the  constant 
recording and storage of personal data and covers, “even partially, a public space and is accordingly 
directed outwards from the private setting of the person processing the data in that manner, it cannot 
be regarded as an activity which is a purely ‘personal or household’ activity for the purposes of the 
second indent of Article 3(2) of Directive 95/46”5. 

13.  What  regards  video  devices  operated  inside  a  private  person’s  premises,  it  may  fall  under  the 
household exemption. It will depend on several factors, which all have to be considered in order to 
reach a conclusion. Besides the above mentioned elements identified by ECJ rulings, the user of video 
surveillance at home needs to look at whether he has some kind of personal relationship with the data 
subject, whether the scale or frequency of the surveillance suggests some kind of professional activity 
on his side, and of the surveillance’s potential adverse impact on the data subjects. The presence of 
any single one of the aforementioned elements does not necessarily suggest that the processing is 
outside  the  scope  of  the  household  exemption,  an  overall  assessment  is  needed  for  that 
determination. 

Example: A tourist is recording videos both through his mobile phone and through a camcorder 
to document his holidays.  He shows the  footage to friends and  family but  does not make it 
accessible for an indefinite number of people. This would fall under the household exemption. 

Example:  A  downhill  mountain  biker  wants  to  record  her  descent  with  an  actioncam.  She  is 
riding in a remote area and only plans to use the recordings for her personal entertainment at 
home. This would fall under the household exemption even if to some extent personal data is 
processed. 

Example: Somebody is monitoring and recording his own garden. The property is fenced and 
only the controller himself and his family are entering the garden on a regular basis. This would 
fall under the household exemption, provided that the video surveillance does not extend even 
partially to a public space or neighbouring property.  

 

 

 

14. 

 

4 European Court of Justice, Judgment in Case C-101/01, Bodil Lindqvist case, 6th November 2003, para 47.  

5 European Court of Justice, Judgment in Case C-212/13, František Ryneš v Úřad pro ochranu osobních údajů, 11 
December 2014, para. 33.  

Adopted 

 

8 

3  LAWFULNESS OF PROCESSING 

15.  Before  use,  the  purposes  of  processing  have  to  be  specified  in  detail  (Article  5  (1)  (b)).  Video 
surveillance can serve many purposes, e.g.  supporting the protection of property and other assets, 
supporting  the  protection  of  life  and  physical  integrity  of  individuals,  collecting  evidence  for  civil 
claims.6 These monitoring purposes should be documented in writing (Article 5 (2)) and need to be 
specified for every surveillance camera in use. Cameras that are used for the same purpose by a single 
controller  can  be  documented  together.  Furthermore,  data  subjects  must  be  informed  of  the 
purpose(s) of the processing in accordance with Article 13 (see section 7, Transparency and information 
obligations).  Video  surveillance  based  on  the  mere  purpose  of  “safety”  or  “for  your  safety”  is  not 
sufficiently specific (Article 5 (1) (b)). It is furthermore contrary to the principle that personal data shall 
be processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject (see Article 5 
(1) (a)). 

16. 

In  principle,  every  legal  ground  under  Article  6  (1)  can  provide  a  legal  basis  for  processing  video 
surveillance data. For example, Article 6 (1) (c) applies where national law stipulates an obligation to 
carry out video surveillance.7 However in practice, the provisions most likely to be used are  

•  Article 6 (1) (f) (legitimate interest), 

•  Article 6 (1) (e) (necessity to perform a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise 

of official authority).  

In rather exceptional cases Article 6 (1) (a) (consent) might be used as a legal basis by the controller. 

17. 

3.1  Legitimate interest, Article 6 (1) (f) 
The legal assessment of Article 6 (1) (f) should be based on the following criteria in compliance with 
Recital 47. 

3.1.1  Existence of legitimate interests 

18.  Video  surveillance  is  lawful  if  it  is  necessary  in  order  to  meet  the  purpose  of  a  legitimate  interest 
pursued by a controller or a third party, unless such interests are overridden  by the data  subject’s 
interests  or  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  (Article  6  (1)  (f)).  Legitimate  interests  pursued  by  a 
controller or a third party can be legal8, economic or non-material interests.9 However, the controller 
should consider that if the data subject objects to the surveillance in accordance with Article 21 the 
controller  can  only  proceed  with  the  video  surveillance  of  that  data  subject  if  it  is  a  compelling 
legitimate interest which overrides the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject or for the 
establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.  

19.  Given  a  real  and  hazardous  situation,  the  purpose  to  protect  property  against  burglary,  theft  or 

vandalism can constitute a legitimate interest for video surveillance.  

6 Rules on collecting evidence for civil claims varies in Member States. 

 

7 These guidelines do not analyse or go into details of national law that might differ between Member States. 

8 European Court of Justice, Judgment in Case C-13/16, Rīgas satiksme case, 4 may 2017 
9 see WP217, Article 29 Working Party. 

Adopted 

 

9 

20. 

The legitimate interest needs to be of real existence and has to be a present issue (i.e. it must not be 
fictional or speculative)10. A real-life situation of distress needs to be at hand – such as damages or 
serious incidents in the past – before starting the surveillance. In light of the principle of accountability, 
controllers would be well advised to document relevant incidents (date, manner, financial loss) and 
related criminal charges. Those documented incidents can be a strong evidence for the existence of a 
legitimate interest.  The existence of a legitimate interest as well as the necessity of the  monitoring 
should be reassessed in periodic intervals (e. g. once a year, depending on the circumstances). 

Example: A shop owner wants to  open a new  shop and wants to install a video  surveillance 
system  to  prevent  vandalism.  He  can  show,  by  presenting  statistics,  that  there  is  a  high 
expectation of vandalism in the near neighbourhood. Also, experience from neighbouring shops 
is useful. It is not necessary that a damage to the controller in question must have occurred. As 
long  as  damages  in  the  neighbourhood  suggest  a  danger  or  similar,  and  thus  can  be  an 
indication of a legitimate interest. It is however not sufficient to present national or general 
crime statistic without analysing the area in question or the dangers for this specific shop. 

 

Imminent  danger  situations  may  constitute  a  legitimate  interest,  such  as  banks  or  shops  selling 
precious goods (e.g. jewellers), or areas that are known to be typical crime scenes for property offences 
(e. g. petrol stations). 

21. 

22. 

23. 

 The GDPR also clearly states that public authorities cannot rely their  processing on the grounds of 
legitimate interest, as long as they are carrying out their tasks, Article 6 (1) sentence 2.  

3.1.2  Necessity of processing 

24.  Personal data should be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes 
for  which  they  are  processed  (‘data  minimisation’),  see  Article  5  (1)  (c).  Before  installing  a  video-
surveillance system the controller should always critically examine if this measure is firstly suitable to 
attain  the  desired  goal,  and  secondly  adequate  and  necessary  for  its  purposes.  Video  surveillance 
measures should only be chosen if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be fulfilled by 
other means which are less intrusive to the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject. 

25.  Given the situation that a controller wants to prevent property related crimes, instead of installing a 
video surveillance system the controller could also take alternative security measures such as fencing 
the  property,  installing  regular  patrols  of  security  personnel,  using  gatekeepers,  providing  better 
lighting, installing security locks, tamper-proof windows and doors or applying anti-graffiti coating or 
foils to walls. Those measures can be as effective as video surveillance systems against burglary, theft 
and vandalism. The controller has to assess on a case-by-case basis whether such measures can be a 
reasonable solution.  

26.  Before  operating  a  camera  system,  the  controller  is  obliged  to  assess  where  and  when  video 
surveillance measures are strictly necessary. Usually a surveillance system operating at night-time as 
well as outside the regular working hours will meet the needs of the controller to prevent any dangers 
to his property. 

10 see WP217, Article 29 Working Party, p. 24 seq. See also ECJ Case C-708/18 p.44 

 

Adopted 

 

10 

27. 

In  general,  the  necessity  to  use  video  surveillance  to  protect  the  controllers’  premises  ends  at  the 
property  boundaries.11  However,  there  are  cases  where  the  surveillance  of  the  property  is  not 
sufficient for an effective protection. In some individual cases it might be necessary to exceed the video 
surveillance  to  the  immediate  surroundings  of  the  premises.  In  this  context,  the  controller  should 
consider physical and technical means, for example blocking out or pixelating not relevant areas. 

Example:  A  bookshop  wants  to  protect  its  premises  against  vandalism.  In  general,  cameras 
should only be filming the premises itself because it is not necessary to watch neighbouring 
premises or public areas in the surrounding of the bookshop premises for that purpose.  

28. 

 

29.  Questions concerning the processing’s necessity also arise regarding the way evidence is preserved. In 
some cases it might be necessary to use black box solutions where the footage is automatically deleted 
after a certain storage period and only accessed in case of an incident. In other situations, it might not 
be  necessary  to  record  the  video  material  at  all  but  more  appropriate  to  use  real-time  monitoring 
instead. The decision between black box solutions and real-time monitoring should also be based on 
the purpose pursued. If for example the purpose of video surveillance is the preservation of evidence, 
real-time  methods  are  usually  not  suitable.  Sometimes  real-time  monitoring  may  also  be  more 
intrusive than storing and automatically deleting material after a limited timeframe (e. g. if someone 
is  constantly  viewing  the  monitor  it  might  be  more  intrusive  than  if  there  is  no  monitor  at  all  and 
material is directly stored in a black box). The data minimisation principle must be regarded in this 
context (Article 5 (1) (c)). It should also be kept in mind that it might be possible that the controller 
could  use  security  personnel  instead  of  video  surveillance  that  are  able  to  react  and  intervene 
immediately.  

3.1.3  Balancing of interests 

30.  Presuming  that  video  surveillance  is  necessary  to  protect  the  legitimate  interests  of  a  controller,  a 
video surveillance system may only be put in operation, if the legitimate interests of the controller or 
those  of  a  third  party  (e.g.  protection  of  property  or  physical  integrity)  are  not  overridden  by  the 
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject. The controller needs to consider 1) 
to what extent the monitoring affects interests, fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and 2) 
if  this  causes  violations  or  negative  consequences  with  regard  to  the  data  subject’s  rights.  In  fact, 
balancing  the  interests  is  mandatory.  Fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  on  one  hand  and  the 
controller’s legitimate interests on the other hand have to be evaluated and balanced carefully.  

11 This might also be subject to national legislation in some Member States. 

 

Adopted 

 

11 

Example: A private parking company has documented reoccurring problems with thefts in the 
cars parked. The parking area is an open space and can be easily accessed by anyone, but is 
clearly marked with signs and road blockers surrounding the space. The parking company have 
a legitimate interest (preventing thefts in the customers’ cars) to monitor the area during the 
time  of  day  that  they  are  experiencing  problems.  Data  subjects  are  monitored  in  a  limited 
timeframe, they are not in the area for recreational purposes and it is also in their own interest 
that thefts are prevented. The interest of the data subjects not to be monitored is in this case 
overridden by the controller’s legitimate interest. 

Example: A restaurant decides to install video cameras in the restrooms to control the tidiness 
of the sanitary facilities. In this case the rights of the data subjects clearly overrides the interest 
of the controller, therefore cameras cannot be installed there. 

31. 

3.1.3.1  Making case-by-case decisions 

 

32.  As the balancing of interests is mandatory according to the regulation, the decision has to be made on 
a case-by-case basis (see Article 6 (1) (f)). Referencing abstract situations or comparing similar cases to 
one another is insufficient. The controller has to evaluate the risks of the intrusion of the data subject’s 
rights; here the decisive criterion is the intensity of intervention for the rights and freedoms of the 
individual. 

33. 

34. 

1. 

35. 

Intensity can inter alia be defined by the type of information that is gathered (information content), 
the  scope  (information  density,  spatial  and  geographical  extent),  the  number  of  data  subjects 
concerned, either as a specific number or as a proportion of the relevant population, the situation in 
question, the actual interests of the group of data subjects, alternative means, as well as by the nature 
and scope of the data assessment.  

Important balancing factors can be the size of the area, which is under surveillance and the amount of 
data subjects under surveillance. The use of video surveillance in a remote area (e. g. to watch wildlife 
or  to  protect  critical  infrastructure  such  as  a  privately  owned  radio  antenna)  has  to  be  assessed 
differently than video surveillance in a pedestrian zone or a shopping mall. 

Example: If a dash cam is installed (e. g. for the purpose of collecting evidence in case of an 
accident), it is important to ensure that this camera is not constantly recording traffic, as well 
as persons who are near a road. Otherwise the interest in having video recordings as evidence 
in the more theoretical case of a road accident cannot justify this serious interference with data 
subjects’ rights.11 

  

3.1.3.2  Data subjects’ reasonable expectations 

36.  According  to  Recital  47,  the  existence  of  a  legitimate  interest  needs  careful  assessment.  Here  the 
reasonable expectations  of the data subject at the time and in the context of the processing of its 
personal data have to be included. Concerning systematic monitoring, the relationship between data 
subject and controller may vary significantly and may affect what reasonable expectations the data 
subject might have. The interpretation of the concept of reasonable expectations should not only be 
based on the subjective expectations in question. Rather, the decisive criterion has to be if an objective 
third party could reasonably expect and conclude to be subject to monitoring in this specific situation. 

Adopted 

 

12 

37. 

For instance, an employee in his/her workplace is in most cases not likely expecting to be monitored 
by his or her employer.12 Furthermore, monitoring is not to be expected in one’s private garden, in 
living areas, or in examination and treatment rooms. In the same vein, it is not reasonable to expect 
monitoring in sanitary or sauna facilities – monitoring such areas is an intense intrusion into the rights 
of the data subject. The reasonable expectations of data subjects are that no video surveillance will 
take  place  in  those  areas.  On  the  other  hand,  the  customer  of  a  bank  might  expect  that  he/she  is 
monitored inside the bank or by the ATM. 

38.  Data subjects can also expect to be  free of monitoring  within publicly accessible  areas especially if 
those  areas  are  typically  used  for  recovery,  regeneration,  and  leisure  activities  as  well  as  in  places 
where individuals stay and/or communicate, such as sitting areas, tables in restaurants, parks, cinemas 
and fitness facilities. Here the  interests or rights and freedoms of the data subject will often override 
the controller’s legitimate interests. 

39. 

40. 

Example: In toilets data subjects expect not to be monitored. Video surveillance for example to 
prevent accidents is not proportional.  

 

Signs informing the  data subject about the video surveillance have no relevance when determining 
what a data subject objectively can expect. This means that e.g. a shop owner cannot rely on customers 
objectively having reasonable expectations to be monitored just because a sign informs the individual 
at the entrance about the surveillance. 

3.2  Necessity to perform a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of 

official authority vested in the controller, Article 6 (1) (e) 

41.  Personal data could be processed through video surveillance under Article 6 (1) (e) if it is necessary to 
perform a task carried out in the public interest or in in the exercise of official authority.13 It may be 
that the exercise of official authority does not allow for such processing, but other legislative bases 
such as “health and safety” for the protection of visitors and employees may provide limited scope for 
processing, while still having regard for GDPR obligations and data subject rights. 

42.  Member States may maintain or introduce specific national legislation for video surveillance to adapt 
the  application  of  the  rules  of  the  GDPR  by  determining  more  precisely  specific  requirements  for 
processing  as  long  as  it  is  in  accordance  with  the  principles  laid  down  by  the  GDPR  (e.g.  storage 
limitation, proportionality). 

 

 

 

12 See also: Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 2/2017 on data processing at work, WP249, adopted on 8 June 
2017. 

13 The basis for the processing referred shall be laid down by Union law or Member State law» and «shall be 
necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority 
vested in the controller (Article 6 (3)). 

Adopted 

 

13 

3.3  Consent, Article 6 (1) (a) 

43.  Consent has to be freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous as described in the guidelines on 

consent.14 

44.  Regarding  systematic  monitoring,  the  data  subject’s  consent  can  only  serve  as  a  legal  basis  in 
accordance with Article 7 (see Recital 43) in exceptional cases. It is in the surveillance’s nature that this 
technology monitors an unknown number of people at once. The controller will hardly be able to prove 
that the data subject has given consent prior to processing of its personal data (Article 7 (1)). Assumed 
that the data subject withdraws its consent it will be difficult for the controller to prove that personal 
data is no longer processed (Article 7 (3)).  

45. 

46. 

Example: Athletes may request monitoring during individual exercises in order to analyse their 
techniques and performance. On the other hand, where a sports club takes the initiative to 
monitor a whole team for the same purpose, consent will often not be valid, as the individual 
athletes  may  feel  pressured  into  giving  consent  so  that  their  refusal  of  consent  does  not 
adversely affect teammates. 

 

If the controller wishes to rely on consent it is his duty to make sure that every data subject who enters 
the area which is under video surveillance has given her or his consent. This consent has to meet the 
conditions  of  Article  7.  Entering  a  marked  monitored  area  (e.g.  people  are  invited  to  go through  a 
specific  hallway  or  gate  to  enter  a  monitored  area),  does  not  constitute  a  statement  or  a  clear 
affirmative action needed for consent, unless it meets the criteria of Article 4 and 7 as described in the 
guidelines on consent.15 

47.  Given the imbalance of power between employers and employees, in most cases employers should 
not rely on consent when processing personal data, as it is unlikely to be freely given. The guidelines 
on consent should be taken into consideration in this context.  

48.  Member State law or collective agreements, including ‘works agreements’, may provide for specific 

rules on the processing of employees' personal data in the employment context (see Article 88).  

 

 

 

14 Article 29 Working Party (Art. 29 WP) „Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679“ (WP 259 rev. 01). - 
endorsed by the EDPB 

15 Article 29 Working Party (Art. 29 WP) „Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679“ (WP 259) - 
endorsed by the EDPB - which should be taken in account.  

Adopted 

 

14 

4  DISCLOSURE OF VIDEO FOOTAGE TO THIRD PARTIES 

49. 

In principle, the general regulations of the GDPR apply to the disclosure of video recordings to third 
parties. 

4.1  Disclosure of video footage to third parties in general 

50.  Disclosure  is  defined  in  Article  4  (2)  as  transmission  (e.g.  individual  communication),  dissemination 
(e.g. publishing online) or otherwise making available. Third parties are defined in Article 4 (10). Where 
disclosure is made to third countries or international organisations, the special provisions of Article 44 
et seq. also apply. 

51.  Any  disclosure  of  personal  data  is  a  separate  kind  of  processing  of  personal  data  for  which  the 

controller needs to have a legal basis in Article 6. 

Example: A controller who wishes to upload a recording to the Internet needs to rely on a legal 
basis for that processing, for instance by obtaining consent from the data subject according to 
Article 6 (1) (a). 

 

The transmission of video footage to third parties for the purpose other than that for which the data 
has been collected is possible under the rules of Article 6 (4). 

Example: Video surveillance of a barrier (at a parking lot) is installed for the purpose of resolving 
damages. A damage occurs and the recording is transferred to a lawyer to pursue a case. In this 
case the purpose for recording is the same as the one for transferring. 

Example: Video surveillance of a barrier (at a parking lot) is installed for the purpose of resolving 
damages.  The  recording  is  published  online  for  pure  amusement  reasons.  In  this  case  the 
purpose has changed and is not compatible with the initial purpose. It would furthermore be 
problematic to identify a legal basis for that processing (publishing). 

 

52. 

53. 

54. 

55.  A third party recipient will have to make its own legal analysis, in particular identifying its legal basis 

under Article 6 for his processing (e.g. receiving the material). 

56. 

4.2  Disclosure of video footage to law enforcement agencies 
The disclosure of video recordings to law enforcement agencies is also an independent process, which 
requires a separate justification for the controller.  

57.  According to Article 6 (1) (c), processing is legal if it is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation 
to which the controller is subject. Although the applicable police law is an affair under the sole control 
of the Member States, there are most likely general rules that regulate the transfer of evidence to law 
enforcement agencies in every Member State. The processing of the controller handing over the data 
is  regulated  by  the  GDPR.  If  national  legislation  requires  the  controller  to  cooperate  with  law 
enforcement (e. g. investigation), the legal basis for handing over the data is legal obligation under 
Article 6 (1) (c). 

58. 

The purpose limitation in Article 6 (4) is then often unproblematic, since the disclosure explicitly goes 
back to Member State law.  A consideration of the special requirements for a change of purpose in the 
sense of lit. a - e is therefore not necessary. 

Adopted 

 

15 

Example: A shop owner records footage at its entrance. The footage shows a person stealing 
another person’s wallet. The police asks the controller to hand over the material in order to 
assist in their investigation. In that case the shop owner would use the legal basis under Article 
6 (1) (c) (legal obligation) read in conjunction with the relevant national law for the transfer 
processing. 

Example: A camera is installed in a shop for security reasons. The shop owner believes he has 
recorded something suspicious in his footage and decides to send the material to the police 
(without any indication that there is an ongoing investigation of some kind). In this case the 
shop owner has to assess whether the conditions under, in most cases, Article 6 (1) (f) are met. 
This is usually the case if the shop owner has a reasonable suspicion of that a crime has been 
committed. 

 

 

The processing of the personal data by the law enforcement agencies themselves does not follow the 
GDPR (see Article 2 (2) (d)), but follows instead the Law Enforcement Directive (EU2016/680). 

 

 

59. 

60. 

61. 

Adopted 

 

16 

5  PROCESSING OF SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF DATA 

62.  Video surveillance systems usually collect massive amounts of personal data which may reveal data of 
a highly personal nature and even special categories of data. Indeed, apparently non-significant data 
originally collected through video can be used to infer other information to achieve a different purpose 
(e.g.  to  map  an  individual’s  habits).  However,  video  surveillance  is  not  always  considered  to  be 
processing of special categories of personal data. 

Example: Video footage showing a data subject wearing glasses or using a wheel chair are not 
per se considered to be special categories of personal data. 

63. 

64.  However, if the video footage is processed to deduce special categories of data Article 9 applies. 

1. 

Example:  Political  opinions  could  for  example  be  deduced  from  images  showing  identifiable 
data subjects taking part in an event, engaging in a strike, etc. This would fall under Article 9. 

Example: A hospital installing a video camera in order to monitor a patient’s health condition 
would be considered as processing of special categories of personal data (Article 9). 

 

 

65. 

66. 

67. 

68. 

69. 

70. 

In general, as a principle, whenever installing a video surveillance system careful consideration should 
be given to the data minimization principle. Hence, even in cases where Article 9 (1) does not apply, 
the data controller should always try to minimize the risk of capturing footage revealing other sensitive 
data (beyond Article 9), regardless of the aim.  

Example: Video surveillance capturing a church does not per se fall under Article 9. However, 
the controller has to conduct an especially careful assessment under Article 6 (1) (f) taken into 
account the nature of the data as well as the  risk of capturing other sensitive data (beyond 
Article 9) when assessing the interests of the data subject. 

  

If a video surveillance system is used in order to process special categories of data, the data controller 
must  identify  both  an  exception  for  processing  special  categories  of  data  under  Article  9  (i.e.  an 
exemption from the general rule that one should not process special categories of data) and a legal 
basis under Article 6.  

For  instance,  Article  9  (2)  (c)  (“[…]  processing  is necessary  to  protect the vital  interests of  the data 
subject or of another natural person […]”) could – in theory and exceptionally – be used, but the data 
controller would have to justify it as an absolute necessity to safeguard the vital interests of a person 
and  prove  that  this  “[…]  data  subject  is  physically  or  legally  incapable  of  giving  his  consent.".  In 
addition, the data controller won’t be allowed to use the system for any other reason.  

It is important to note here that every exemption listed in Article 9 is not likely to be usable to justify 
processing of special categories of data through video surveillance. More specifically, data controllers 
processing those data in the context of video surveillance cannot rely on Article 9 (2) (e), which allows 
processing that relates to personal data that are manifestly made public by the data subject. The mere 
fact of entering into the range of the camera does not imply that the data subject intends to make 
public special categories of data relating to him or her.   

Adopted 

 

17 

71. 

Furthermore, processing of special categories of data requires a heightened and continued vigilance 
to certain obligations; for example high level of security and data protection impact assessment where 
necessary.  

72. 

73. 

74. 

Example: An employer must not use video surveillance recordings showing a demonstration in 
order to identify strikers. 

  

5.1  General considerations when processing biometric data 
The use of biometric data and in particular facial recognition entail heightened risks for data subjects’ 
rights. It is crucial that recourse to such technologies takes place with due respect to the principles of 
lawfulness, necessity, proportionality and data minimisation as set forth in the GDPR. Whereas the use 
of these technologies can be perceived as particularly effective, controllers should first of all assess the 
impact  on  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and  consider  less  intrusive  means  to  achieve  their 
legitimate purpose of the processing.  

To  qualify  as  biometric  data  as  defined  in  the  GDPR,  processing  of  raw  data,  such  as  the  physical, 
physiological  or  behavioural  characteristics  of  a  natural  person,  must  imply  a  measurement  of  this 
characteristics. Since biometric data is the result of such measurements, the GDPR states in its Article 
4.14 that it is “[…] resulting from specific technical processing relating to the physical, physiological or 
behavioural characteristics of a natural person, which allow or confirm the unique identification of that 
natural  person  […]”.  The  video  footage  of  an  individual  cannot  however  in  itself  be  considered  as 
biometric data under Article 9, if it has not been specifically technically processed in order to contribute 
to the identification of an individual. 16 

75. 

In order for it to be considered as processing of special categories of personal data (Article 9) it requires 
that biometric data is processed “for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person”.  

76. 

To sum up, in light of Article 4.14 and 9, three criteria must be considered:  

-  Nature  of  data  :  data  relating  to  physical,  physiological  or  behavioural  characteristics  of  a 

natural person,  

-  Means and way of processing : data “resulting from a specific technical processing”,  

-  Purpose of processing: data must be used for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural 

person.  

77. 

The use of video surveillance including biometric recognition functionality installed by private entities 
for their own purposes (e.g. marketing, statistical, or even security) will, in most cases, require explicit 
consent from all data subjects (Article 9 (2) (a)), however another suitable exception in Article 9 could 
also be applicable. 

 

16  Recital  51  GDPR  supports  this  analysis,  stating  that  “[…]  The  processing  of  photographs  should  not 
systematically be considered to be processing of special categories of personal data as they are covered by the 
definition  of  biometric  data  only  when  processed  through  a  specific  technical  means  allowing  the  unique 
identification or authentication of a natural person. […]”.  

Adopted 

 

18 

2. 

3. 

78. 

79. 

Example:  To  improve  its  service  a  private  company  replaces  passenger  identification  check 
points within an airport (luggage drop-off, boarding) with video surveillance systems that use 
facial  recognition  techniques  to  verify  the  identity  of  the  passengers  that  have  chosen  to 
consent to such a procedure. Since the processing falls under Article 9, the passengers, who will 
have previously given their explicit and informed consent, will have to enlist themselves at for 
example an automatic terminal in order to create and register their facial template associated 
with their boarding pass and identity. The check points with facial recognition need to be clearly 
separated, e. g. the system must be installed within a gantry so that the biometric templates of 
non-consenting  person  will  not  be  captured.  Only  the  passengers,  who  will  have  previously 
given their consent and proceeded with their enrolment, will use the gantry equipped with the 
biometric system.  

Example: A controller manages access to his building using a facial recognition method. People 
can only use this way of access if they have given their explicitly informed consent (according 
to Article 9 (2) (a)) beforehand. However, in order to ensure that no one who has not previously 
given his or her consent is captured, the facial recognition method should be triggered by the 
data  subject  himself,  for  instance  by  pushing  a  button.  To  ensure  the  lawfulness  of  the 
processing, the controller must always offer an alternative way to access the building, without 
biometric processing, such as badges or keys. 

In this type of cases, where biometric templates are generated, controllers shall ensure that once a 
match or no-match result has been obtained, all the intermediate templates made on the fly (with the 
explicit and informed consent of the data subject) in order to be compared to the ones created by the 
data  subjects  at  the  time  of  the  enlistment,  are  immediately  and  securely  deleted.  The  templates 
created for the enlistment should only be retained for the realisation of the purpose of the processing 
and should not be stored or archived. 

  

80.  However, when the purpose of the processing is for example to distinguish one category of people 

from another but not to uniquely identify anyone the processing does not fall under Article 9.  

4. 

81. 

Example: A shop owner would like to customize its advertisement based on gender and age 
characteristics of the customer captured by a video surveillance system. If that system does not 
generate  biometric  templates  in  order  to  uniquely  identify  persons  but  instead  just  detects 
those physical characteristics in order to classify the person then the processing would not fall 
under Article 9 (as long as no other types of special categories of data are being processed). 

 

82.  However, Article 9 applies if the controller stores biometric data (most commonly through templates 
that  are  created  by the  extraction  of  key  features  from  the  raw  form  of  biometric  data  (e.g.  facial 
measurements from an image)) in order to uniquely identify a person. If a controller wishes to detect 
a data subject re-entering the area or entering another area (for example in order to project continued 
customized advertisement), the purpose would then be to uniquely identify a natural person, meaning 
that the operation would from the start fall under Article 9. This could be the case if a controller stores 
generated  templates  to  provide  further  tailored  advertisement  on  several  billboards  throughout 
different locations inside the shop. Since the system is using physical characteristics to detect specific 
individuals coming back in the range of the camera (like the visitors of a shopping mall) and tracking 
them, it would constitute a biometric identification method because it is aimed at recognition through 
the use of specific technical processing. 

Adopted 

 

19 

5. 

83. 

84. 

6. 

7. 

85. 

86. 

Example:  A  shop  owner  has  installed  a  facial  recognition  system  inside  his  shop  in  order  to 
customize its advertisement towards individuals. The data controller has to obtain the explicit 
and  informed  consent  of  all  data  subjects  before  using this  biometric  system  and  delivering 
tailored advertisement. The system would be unlawful if it captures visitors or passers-by who 
have not consented to the creation of their biometric template, even if their template is deleted 
within the shortest possible period. Indeed, these temporary templates constitute biometric 
data processed in order to uniquely identify a person who may not want to receive targeted 
advertisement.  

  

The EDPB observes that some biometric systems are installed in uncontrolled environments17, which 
means that the system involves capturing on the fly the faces of any individual passing in the range of 
the camera, including persons who have not consented to the biometric device, and thereby creating 
biometric templates. These templates are compared to the ones created of data subjects having given 
their prior consent during an enlistment process (i.e. a  biometric devise user) in order for the data 
controller to recognise whether the person is a biometric device user or not. In this case, the system is 
often designed to discriminate the individuals it wants to recognize from a database from those who 
are not enlisted. Since the purpose is to uniquely identify natural persons, an exception under Article 
9 (2) GDPR is still needed for anyone captured by the camera. 

Example: A hotel uses video surveillance to automatically alert the hotel manager that a VIP has 
arrived  when the face of the guest  is recognized. These VIPs have priory given their explicit 
consent to the use of facial recognition before being recorded in a database established for that 
purpose. These processing systems of biometric data would be unlawful unless all other guests 
monitored (in order to identify the VIPs) have consented to the processing according to Article 
9 (2) (a) GDPR.  

Example:  A controller installs a video surveillance system with facial recognition at the entrance 
of the concert hall he manages. The controller must set up clearly separated entrances; one 
with a biometric system and one without (where you instead for example scan a ticket). The 
entrances equipped with biometric devices, must be installed and made accessible in a way 
that prevents the system from capturing biometric templates of non-consenting spectators.  

  

Finally, when the consent is  required  by Article 9 GDPR, the data controller shall not condition the 
access to its services to the acceptance of the biometric processing. In other words and notably when 
the  biometric  processing  is  used  for  authentication  purpose,  the  data  controller  must  offer  an 
alternative solution that does not involve biometric processing – without restraints or additional cost 
for  the  data  subject.  This  alternative  solution  is  also  needed  for  persons  who  do  not  meet  the 
constraints of the biometric device (enrolment or reading of the biometric data impossible, disability 
situation making it difficult to use, etc.) and in anticipation of unavailability of the biometric device 
(such as a malfunction of the device), a "back-up solution" must be implemented to ensure continuity 
of the proposed service, limited however to exceptional use. In exceptional cases, there might be a 
situation where processing biometric data is the core activity of a service provided by contract, e.g. a 

 

17 It means that the biometric device is located in a space open to the public and is able to work on anyone 
passing by, as opposed to the biometric systems in controlled environments that can be used only by 
consenting person’s participation. 

Adopted 

 

20 

87. 

88. 

89. 

museum that sets up an exhibition to demonstrate the use of a facial recognition device, in which case 
the  data  subject  will  not  be  able  to  reject  the  processing  of  biometric  data  should  they  wish  to 
participate  in  the  exhibition.  In  such  case  the  consent  required  under  Article  9  is  still  valid  if  the 
requirements in Article 7 are met. 

5.2  Suggested measures to minimize the risks when processing biometric data  
In compliance with the data minimization principle, data controllers must ensure that data extracted 
from a digital image to build a template will not be excessive and will only contain the information 
required for the specified purpose, thereby avoiding any possible further processing. Measures should 
be put in place to guarantee that templates cannot be transferred across biometric systems.  

Identification and authentication/verification are likely to require the storage of the template for use 
in a later comparison. The data controller must consider the most appropriate location for storage of 
the  data.  In  an  environment  under  control  (delimited  hallways  or  checkpoints),  templates  shall  be 
stored on an individual device kept by the user and under his or her sole control (in a smartphone or 
the id card) or – when needed for specific purposes and in presence of objective needs – stored in a 
centralized  database  in  an  encrypted  form  with  a  key/secret  solely  in  the  hands  of  the  person  to 
prevent unauthorised access to the template or storage location. If the data controller cannot avoid 
having  access  to  the  templates,  he  must take  appropriate  steps  to  ensure  the  security  of  the  data 
stored. This may include encrypting the template using a cryptographic algorithm. 

In any case, the controller shall take all necessary precautions to preserve the availability, integrity and 
confidentiality  of  the  data  processed.  To  this  end,  the  controller  shall  notably  take  the  following 
measures: compartmentalize data during transmission and storage, store biometric templates and raw 
data or identity data on distinct databases, encrypt biometric data, notably biometric templates, and 
define a policy for encryption and key management, integrate an organisational and technical measure 
for  fraud  detection,  associate  an  integrity  code  with  the  data  (for  example  signature  or  hash)  and 
prohibit  any  external  access  to  the  biometric  data.  Such  measures  will  need  to  evolve  with  the 
advancement of technologies.  

90.  Besides, data controllers should proceed to the deletion of raw data (face images, speech signals, the 
gait,  etc.)  and  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  this  deletion.  If  there  is  no  longer  a  lawful  basis  for  the 
processing, the raw data has to be deleted. Indeed, insofar as biometric templates derives from such 
data, one can consider that the constitution of databases could represent an equal if not even bigger 
threat (because it may not always be easy to read a biometric template without the knowledge of how 
it was programmed, whereas raw data will be the building blocks of any template). In case the data 
controller  would  need  to  keep  such  data,  noise-additive  methods  (such  as  watermarking)  must  be 
explored, which would render the creation of the template ineffective. The controller must also delete 
biometric data and templates in the event of unauthorized access to the read-comparison terminal or 
storage server and delete any data not useful for further processing at the end of the biometric device's 
life. 

 

 

Adopted 

 

21 

6  RIGHTS OF THE DATA SUBJECT 

91.  Due to the character of data processing when using video surveillance some data subject’s rights under 
GDPR serves further clarification. This chapter is however not exhaustive, all rights  under the GDPR 
applies to processing of personal data through video surveillance.  

6.1  Right to access 

92.  A  data  subject  has  the  right  to  obtain  confirmation  from  the  controller  as  to  whether  or  not  their 
personal  data  are  being  processed.  For  video  surveillance  this  means  that  if  no  data  is  stored  or 
transferred in any way then once the real-time monitoring moment has passed the controller could 
only give the information that no personal data is any longer being processed (besides the general 
information obligations under Article 13, see section 7 – Transparency and information obligations). If 
however data is still being processed at the time of the request (i.e. if the data is stored or continuously 
processed in any other way), the data subject should receive access and information in accordance 
with Article 15.  

93. 

There are however, a number of limitations that may in some cases apply in relation to the right to 
access. 

94. 

95. 

96. 

•  Article 15 (4) GDPR, adversely affect the rights of others 

Given  that  any  number  of  data  subjects  may  be  recorded  in  the  same  sequence  of  video 
surveillance a screening would then cause additional processing of personal data of other data 
subjects. If the data subject wishes to receive a copy of the material (article 15 (3)), this could 
adversely affect the rights and freedoms of other data subject in the material. To prevent that 
effect the controller should therefore take into consideration that due to the intrusive nature of 
the video footage the controller should not in some cases hand out video footage where other 
data subjects can be identified. The protection of the rights of third parties should however not 
be used as an excuse to prevent legitimate claims of access by individuals, the controller should 
in  those  cases  implement  technical  measures  to  fulfil  the  access  request  (for  example,  image-
editing such as masking or scrambling).However, controllers are not obliged to implement such 
technical measures if they can otherwise ensure that they are able to react upon a request under 
Article 15 within the timeframe stipulated by Article 12 (3). 

•  Article 11 (2) GDPR, controller is unable to identify the data subject 

If the video footage is not searchable for personal data, (i.e. the controller would likely have to go 
through  a  large  amount  of  stored  material  in  order  to  find  the  data  subject  in  question)  the 
controller may be unable to identify the data subject.  

For  these  reasons  the  data  subject  should  (besides  identifying  themselves  including  with 
identification document  or in person) in its  request to the controller, specify when  – within a 
reasonable timeframe in proportion to the amount of data subjects recorded – he or she entered 
the  monitored  area.  The  controller  should  notify  the  data  subject  beforehand  on  what 
information is needed in order for the controller to comply with the request. If the controller is 
able to demonstrate that it is not in a position to identify the data subject, the controller must 
inform the data subject accordingly, if possible. In such a situation,  in its response to the  data 
subject  the  controller  should  inform  about  the  exact  area  for  the  monitoring,  verification  of 
cameras that were in use etc. so that the data subject will have the full understanding of what 
personal data of him/her may have been processed.  

Adopted 

 

22 

Example: If a data subject is requesting a copy of his or her personal data processed through 
video  surveillance  at  the  entrance  of  a  shopping  mall with  30 000  visitors  per  day,  the  data 
subject should specify when he or she passed the monitored area within approximately a one-
hour-timeframe. If the controller still processes the material a copy of the video footage should 
be provided. If other data subjects can be identified in the same material then that part of the 
material should be anonymised (for example by blurring the copy or parts thereof) before giving 
the copy to the data subject that filed the request. 

Example: If the controller is automatically erasing all footage for example within 2 days, the 
controller is not able to supply footage to the data subject after those 2 days. If the controller 
receives a request after those 2 days the data subject should be informed accordingly.  

  

•  Article 12 GDPR, excessive requests 

In case of excessive or manifestly unfounded  requests from a data subject, the controller may 
either charge a reasonable fee in accordance with Article 12 (5) (a) GDPR, or refuse to act on the 
request (Article 12 (5) (b) GDPR). The controller needs to be able to demonstrate the manifestly 
unfounded or excessive character of the request. 

97. 

98. 

6.2  Right to erasure and right to object 
6.2.1  Right to erasure (Right to be forgotten) 
If the controller continues to process personal data beyond real-time monitoring (e.g. storing) the data 
subject may request for the personal data to be erased under Article 17 GDPR.  

99. 

100.  Upon a request, the controller is obliged to erase the personal data without undue delay if one of the 
circumstances listed under Article 17 (1) GDPR applies (and none of the exceptions listed under Article 
17 (3) GDPR does). That includes the obligation to erase personal data when they are no longer needed 
for  the  purpose  for  which  they  were  initially  stored,  or  when  the  processing  is  unlawful  (see  also 
Section 8 – Storage periods and obligation to erasure). Furthermore, depending on the legal basis of 
processing, personal data should be erased: 

- 

for  consent  whenever  the  consent  is  withdrawn  (and  there  is  no  other  legal  basis  for  the 
processing) 

- 

for legitimate interest:  

o  whenever the data subject exercises the right to object (see Section 6.2.2) and there 

are no overriding compelling legitimate grounds for the processing, or  

o 

in case of direct marketing (including profiling) whenever the data subject objects to 
the processing. 

101.  If the controller has made the video footage public (e.g. broadcasting or streaming online), reasonable 
steps need to be taken in order to inform other controllers (that are now processing the personal data 
in  question)  of  the  request  pursuant  to  Article  17  (2)  GDPR.  The  reasonable  steps  should  include 
technical measures, taking into account available technology and the cost of implementation. To the 
extent possible, the controller should notify – upon erasure of personal data – anyone to which the 
personal data previously have been disclosed, in accordance with Article 19 GDPR. 

Adopted 

 

23 

102.  Besides  the  controller’s  obligation  to  erase  personal  data  upon  the  data  subject’s  request,  the 
controller is obliged under the general principles of the GDPR to limit the personal data stored (see 
Section 8).  

103.  For video surveillance it is worth noticing that by for instance blurring the picture with no retroactive 
ability  to  recover  the  personal  data  that  the  picture  previously  contained,  the  personal  data  are 
considered erased in accordance with GDPR. 

Example: A convenience store is having trouble with vandalism in particular on its exterior and 
is therefore using video surveillance outside of their entrance in direct connection to the walls. 
A passer-by requests to have his personal data erased from that very moment. The controller 
is obliged to respond to the request without undue delay and at the latest within one month. 
Since the footage in question does no longer meet the purpose for which it was initially stored 
(no vandalism occurred during the time the data subject passed by), there is at the time of the 
request, no legitimate interest to store the data that would override the interests of the data 
subjects. The controller needs to erase the personal data.  

104. 

6.2.2  Right to object 

 

105.  For video surveillance based on legitimate interest (Article 6 (1) (f) GDPR) or for the necessity when 
carrying out a task in the public interest (Article 6 (1) (e) GDPR) the data subject has the right – at any 
time – to object, on grounds relating to his or her particular situation, to the processing in accordance 
with Article 21 GDPR. Unless the controller demonstrates compelling legitimate grounds that overrides 
the rights and interests of the data subject, the processing of data of the individual who objected must 
then  stop.  The  controller  should  be  obliged  to  respond  to  requests  from  the  data  subject  without 
undue delay and at the latest within one month. 

106.  In the context of video surveillance this objection could be made either when entering, during the time 
in, or after leaving, the monitored area. In practice this means that unless the controller has compelling 
legitimate grounds, monitoring an area where natural persons could be identified is only lawful if either 

(1)  the controller is able to  immediately stop the camera  from processing personal data when 

requested, or  

(2)  the monitored area is in such detail restricted so that the controller can assure the approval 
from the data subject prior to entering the area and it is not an area that the data subject as a 
citizen is entitled to access. 

107.  These guidelines do not aim to identify what is considered a compelling legitimate interest (Article 21 

GDPR).  

108.  When using video surveillance for direct marketing purposes, the data subject has the right to object 
to the processing on a discretionary basis as the right to object is absolute in that context (Article 21 
(2) and (3) GDPR).  

Adopted 

 

24 

Example: A company is experiencing difficulties with security breaches in their public entrance 
and is using video surveillance on the grounds of legitimate interest, with the purpose to catch 
those  unlawfully  entering.  A  visitor  objects to  the  processing  of  his  or  her  data  through the 
video surveillance system on grounds relating to his or her particular situation. The company 
however in this case rejects the request with the explanation that the footage stored is needed 
due  to  an  ongoing  internal  investigation,  thereby  having  compelling  legitimate  grounds  to 
continue processing the personal data. 

109. 

 

 

 

Adopted 

 

25 

7  TRANSPARENCY AND INFORMATION OBLIGATIONS18 

110.  It has long been inherent in European data protection law that data subjects should be aware of the 
fact that video surveillance is in operation. They should be informed in a detailed manner as to the 
places monitored.19 Under the GDPR the general transparency and information obligations are set out 
in  Article  12  GDPR  and  following.  Article  29  Working  Party’s  “Guidelines  on  transparency  under 
Regulation 2016/679 (WP260)” which were endorsed by the EDPB on May 25th 2018 provide further 
details.  In  line  with  WP260  par.  26,  it  is  Article  13  GDPR,  which  is  applicable  if  personal  data  are 
collected “[…] from a data subject by observation (e.g. using automated data capturing devices or data 
capturing software such as cameras […].”. 

111.  In light of the volume of information, which is required to be provided to the data subject, a layered 
approach may be followed by data controllers where they opt to use a combination of methods to 
ensure transparency (WP260, par. 35; WP89, par. 22). Regarding video surveillance the most important 
information should be displayed on the warning sign itself (first layer) while the further mandatory 
details may be provided by other means (second layer). 

7.1  First layer information (warning sign) 

112.  The first layer concerns the primary way in which the controller first engages with the data subject. At 
this  stage,  controllers  may  use  a  warning  sign  showing  the  relevant  information.  The  displayed 
information  may  be  provided  in  combination  with  an  icon  in  order  to  give,  in  an  easily  visible, 
intelligible and clearly readable manner, a meaningful overview of the intended processing (Article 12 
(7) GDPR). The format of the information should be adjusted to the individual location (WP89 par. 22). 

7.1.1  Positioning of the warning sign 

113.  The  information  should  be  positioned  in  such  a  way  that  the  data  subject  can  easily  recognize  the 
circumstances of the surveillance before entering the monitored area (approximately at eye level). It 
is not necessary to reveal the position of the camera as long as there is no doubt as to which areas are 
subject to monitoring and the context of surveillance is clarified unambiguously (WP 89, par. 22).  The 
data subject must be able to estimate which area is captured by a camera so that he or she is able to 
avoid surveillance or adapt his or her behaviour if necessary.  

7.1.2  Content of the first layer 

114.  The first layer information (warning sign) should generally convey the most important information, e.g. 
the details of the purposes of processing, the identity of controller and the existence of the rights of 
the  data  subject,  together  with  information  on  the  greatest  impacts  of  the  processing.20  This  can 
include for example the legitimate interests pursued by the controller (or by a third party) and contact 
details of the data protection officer (if applicable). It also has to refer to the more detailed second 
layer of information and where and how to find it. 

115.  In addition the sign should also contain any information that could surprise the data subject (WP260, 
par.  38).  That  could  for  example  be  transmissions  to  third  parties,  particularly  if  they  are  located 

18 Specific requirements in national legislation might apply. 

 

19 See WP89, Opinion 4/2004 on the Processing of Personal Data by means of Video Surveillance by Article 29 
Working Party). 

20 See WP260, par. 38. 

Adopted 

 

26 

outside the EU, and the storage period. If this information is not indicated, the data subject should be 
able to trust that there is solely a live monitoring (without any data recording or transmission to third 
parties). 

Example (non-binding suggestion): 

116. 

7.2  Second layer information 

 

117.  The  second  layer  information  must  also  be  made  available  at  a  place  easily  accessible  to  the  data 
subject, for example as a complete information sheet available at a central location (e.g. information 
desk, reception or cashier) or displayed on an easy accessible poster. As mentioned above, the first 
layer warning sign has to refer clearly to the second layer information. In addition, it is best if the first 
layer information refers to a digital source (e.g. QR-code or a website address) of the second layer. 
However, the information should also be easily available non-digitally. It should be possible to access 
the  second  layer  information  without  entering  the  surveyed  area,  especially  if  the  information  is 
provided digitally (this can be achieved for example by a link). Other appropriate means could be a 
phone  number  that  can  be  called.  However  the  information  is  provided,  it  must  contain  all  that  is 
mandatory under Article 13 GDPR.  

118.  In addition to these options, and also to make them more effective, the EDPB promotes the use of 
technological  means  to  provide  information  to  data  subjects.  This  may  include  for  instance;  geo-
locating cameras and including information in mapping apps or websites so that individuals can easily, 
on the one hand, identify and specify the video sources related to the exercise of their rights, and on 
the other hand, obtain more detailed information on the processing operation. 

Example: A shop owner is monitoring his shop. To comply with Article 13 it is sufficient to place 
a warning sign at an easy visible point at the entrance of his shop, which contains the first layer 
information. In addition, he has to provide an information sheet containing the second layer 
information at the cashier or any other central and easy accessible location in his shop. 

119. 

Adopted 

 

 

27 

 Identity of the controller and, where applicable, of the controller’s representative:   Contact details, including of the data protection officer (where applicable):  Information on the processing that has the most impact on the data subject (e.g. retention period or live monitoring, publication or transmission of video footage to third parties):  Video surveillance! Purpose(s) of the video surveillance:    Further information is available: • via notice • at our reception/ customer information/ register • via internet (URL)… Data subjects rights: As a data subject you have several rights to exercise, in particular the right to request from the controller access to or erasure of your personal data.  For details on this video surveillance including your rights, see the full information provided by the controller through the options presented on the left.  8  STORAGE PERIODS AND OBLIGATION TO ERASURE 

120.  Personal data may not be stored longer than what is necessary for the purposes for which the personal 
data  is  processed  (Article  5  (1)  (c)  and  (e)  GDPR).  In  some  Member  States,  there  may  be  specific 
provisions for storage periods with regards to video surveillance in accordance with Article 6 (2) GDPR.  

121.  Whether the personal data is necessary to store or not should be controlled within a narrow timeline. 
In general, legitimate purposes for video surveillance are often property protection or preservation of 
evidence. Usually damages that occurred can be recognized within one or two days. To facilitate the 
demonstration of compliance with the data protection framework it is in the controller’s interest to 
make  organisational  arrangements  in  advance  (e.  g.  nominate,  if  necessary,  a  representative  for 
screening and securing video material). Taking into consideration the principles of Article 5 (1) (c) and 
(e) GDPR, namely data minimization and storage limitation, the personal data should in most cases 
(e.g. for the purpose of detecting vandalism) be erased, ideally automatically, after  a few days. The 
longer  the  storage  period  set  (especially  when  beyond  72  hours),  the  more  argumentation  for  the 
legitimacy of the purpose and the necessity of storage has to be provided. If the controller uses video 
surveillance not only for monitoring its premises but also intends to store the data, the controller must 
assure that the storage is actually necessary in order to achieve the purpose. If so, the storage period 
needs  to  be  clearly  defined  and  individually  set  for  each  particular  purpose.  It  is  the  controller’s 
responsibility  to  define  the  retention  period  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  necessity  and 
proportionality and to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of the GDPR. 

Example: An owner of a small shop would normally take notice of any vandalism the same day. 
In consequence, a regular storage period of 24 hours is sufficient. Closed weekends or longer 
holidays might however be reasons for a longer storage period.  If a damage is detected he may 
also need to store the video footage a longer period in order to take legal action against the 
offender.  

122. 

 

9  TECHNICAL AND ORGANISATIONAL MEASURES 

123.  As stated in Article 32 (1) GDPR, processing of personal data during video surveillance must not only 
be  legally  permissible  but  controllers  and  processors  must  also  adequately  secure  it.  Implemented 
organizational and technical measures must be proportional to the risks to rights and freedoms of 
natural  persons,  resulting  from  accidental  or  unlawful  destruction,  loss,  alteration,  unauthorized 
disclosure or access to video surveillance data. According to Article 24 and 25 GDPR, controllers need 
to  implement  technical  and  organisational  measures  also  in  order  to  safeguard  all  data-protection 
principles during processing, and to establish means for data subjects to exercise their rights as defined 
in Articles 15-22 GDPR. Data controllers should adopt internal framework and policies that ensure this 
implementation both at the time of the determination of the means for processing and at the time of 
the processing itself, including the performance of data protection impact assessments when needed.  

 

 

Adopted 

 

28 

9.1  Overview of video surveillance system 

124.  A video surveillance system (VSS)21 consists of analogue and digital devices as well as software for the 
purpose of capturing images of a scene, handling the images and displaying them to an operator.  Its 
components are grouped into the following categories:  

•  Video environment: image capture, interconnections and image handling: 

o 

o 

the purpose of image capture is the generation of an image of the real world in such 
format that it can be used by the rest of the system, 

interconnections describe all transmission of data within the video environment, i.e. 
connections  and  communications.  Examples  of  connections  are  cables,  digital 
networks, and wireless transmissions. Communications describe all video and control 
data signals, which could be digital or analogue, 

o 

image handling includes analysis, storage and presentation of an image or a sequence 
of images. 

•  From the system management perspective, a VSS has the following logical functions: 

o  data  management  and  activity  management,  which  includes  handling  operator 

commands and system generated activities (alarm procedures, alerting operators), 

o 

interfaces to other systems might include connection to other security (access control, 
fire  alarm)  and  non-security  systems  (building  management  systems,  automatic 
license plate recognition).  

•  VSS security consists of system and data confidentiality, integrity and availability: 

o  system  security  includes  physical  security  of  all  system  components  and  control  of 

access to the VSS,  

o  data security includes prevention of loss or manipulation of data. 

 

21 GDPR does not provide a definition for it, a technical description can for example be found in EN 62676-1-
1:2014 Video surveillance systems for use in security applications – Part 1-1: Video system requirements. 

Adopted 

 

29 

125. 

Figure 1- video surveillance system 

 

9.2  Data protection by design and by default 

126.  As stated in Article 25 GDPR, controllers need to implement appropriate data protection technical and 
organisational measures as soon as they plan for video surveillance – before they start the collection 
and processing of video footage. These principles emphasize the need for built-in privacy enhancing 
technologies, default settings that minimise the data processing, and the provision of the necessary 
tools that enable the highest possible protection of personal data22.  

127.  Controllers should build data protection and privacy safeguards not only into the design specifications 
of the technology but also into organisational practices. When it comes to organisational practices, the 
controller should adopt an appropriate management framework, establish and enforce policies and 
procedures related to video surveillance. From the technical point of view, system specification and 
design should include requirements for processing personal data in accordance with principles stated 
in Article 5 GDPR (lawfulness of processing, purpose and data limitation, data minimisation by default 
in the sense of Article 25 (2) GDPR, integrity and confidentiality, accountability etc.). In case a controller 
plans  to  acquire  a  commercial  video  surveillance  system,  the  controller  needs  to  include  these 
requirements  in  the  purchase  specification.  The  controller  needs  to  ensure  compliance  with  these 
requirements applying them to all components of the system and to all data processed by it, during 
their entire lifecycle. 

9.3  Concrete examples of relevant measures 

128.  Most of the measures that can be used to secure video surveillance, especially when digital equipment 
and software are used, will not differ from those used in other IT systems. However, regardless of the 
solution  selected,  the  controller  must  adequately  protect  all  components  of  a  video  surveillance 
system and data under all stages, i.e. during storage (data at rest), transmission (data in transit) and 

 

22 WP 168, Opinion on the "The Future of Privacy", joint contribution by the Article 29 Data Protection Working 
Party and the Working Party on Police and Justice to the Consultation of the European  Commission on the 
legal framework for the fundamental right to protection of personal data (adopted on 01 December 2009). 

Adopted 

 

30 

processing (data in use). For this, it is necessary that controllers and processors combine organisational 
and technical measures.  

129.  When selecting technical solutions, the controller should consider privacy-friendly technologies also 
because  they  enhance  security.  Examples  of  such  technologies  are  systems  that  allow  masking  or 
scrambling  areas  that  are  not  relevant  for  the  surveillance,  or  the  editing  out  of  images  of  third 
persons, when providing video footage to data subjects.23 On the other hand, the selected solutions 
should  not  provide  functions  that  are  not  necessary  (e.g.,  unlimited  movement  of  cameras,  zoom 
capability, radio transmission, analysis and audio recordings). Functions provided, but not necessary, 
must be deactivated.  

130.  There is a lot  of literature available on this subject, including international standards and technical 
specifications  on  the  physical  security  of  multimedia  systems24,  and  the  security  of  general  IT 
systems25. Therefore, this section provides only a high-level overview of this topic.  

9.3.1  Organisational measures 

131.  Apart from a potential DPIA needed (see Section 10), controllers  should consider the following topics 

when they create their own video surveillance policies and procedures:  

•  Who is responsible for management and operation of the video surveillance system. 
•  Purpose and scope of the video surveillance project. 
•  Appropriate and prohibited use (where and when video surveillance is allowed and where and 

when it is not; e.g. use of hidden cameras and audio in addition to video recording) 26.  

•  Transparency measures as referred to in Section 7 (Transparency and information obligations).  
•  How video is recorded and for what duration, including archival storage of video recordings 

related to security incidents. 

•  Who must undergo relevant training and when. 
•  Who has access to video recordings and for what purposes. 
•  Operational procedures (e.g. by whom and from where video surveillance is monitored, what 

to do in case of a data breach incident). 

•  What procedures external parties need to follow in order to request video recordings, and 

procedures for denying or granting such requests. 

•  Procedures for VSS procurement, installation and maintenance. 
• 

Incident management and recovery procedures. 

9.3.2  Technical measures 

132.  System security means physical security of all system components, and system integrity i.e. protection 
against and resilience under intentional and unintentional interference with its normal operations 
and  access  control.  Data  security  means  confidentiality  (data  is  accessible  only  to  those  who  are 
granted access), integrity (prevention against data loss or manipulation) and availability (data can be 
accessed when it is required).  

 

23 The use of such technologies may even be mandatory in some cases in order to comply with Article 5 (1) (c). 
In any case they can serve as best practice examples. 

24 IEC TS 62045 — Multimedia security - Guideline for privacy protection of equipment and systems in and out 
of use. 
25 ISO/IEC 27000 — Information security management systems series.  
26 This may depend on national laws and sector regulations. 

Adopted 

 

31 

133.  Physical security is a vital part of data protection and the first line of defence, because it protect VSS 
equipment  from  theft,  vandalism,  natural  disaster,  manmade  catastrophes  and  accidental  damage 
(e.g. from electrical surges, extreme temperatures and spilled coffee). In case of  an analogue based 
systems, physical security plays the main role in their protection. 

134.  System and data security, i.e. protection against intentional and unintentional interference with its 

normal operations may include: 

•  Protection  of  the  entire  VSS  infrastructure  (including  remote  cameras,  cabling  and  power 

supply) against physical tampering and theft. 

•  Protection of footage transmission with communication channels secure against interception 
•  Data encryption. 
•  Use  of  hardware  and  software  based  solutions  such  as  firewalls,  antivirus  or  intrusion 

detection systems against cyber attacks. 

•  Detection of failures of components, software and interconnections. 
•  Means to restore availability and access to the system in the event of a physical or technical 

incident. 

135.  Access control ensures that only authorized people can access the system and data, while others are 

prevented from doing it. Measures that support physical and logical access control include: 

•  Ensuring that all premises where monitoring  by video surveillance is done and where video 

footage is stored are secured against unsupervised access by third parties. 

•  Positioning monitors in such a way (especially when they are in open areas, like a reception) 

so that only authorized operators can view them.  

•  Procedures for granting, changing and revoking physical and logical access are defined and 

enforced. 

•  Methods and means of user authentication and authorization including e.g. passwords length 

and change frequency are implemented. 

•  User performed actions (both to the system and data) are recorded and regularly reviewed. 
•  Monitoring and detection of access failures is done continuously and identified weaknesses 

are addressed as soon as possible. 

 

 

Adopted 

 

32 

10 DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT 

136.  According  to  Article  35  (1)  GDPR  controllers  are  required  to  conduct  data  protection  impact 
assessments (DPIA) when a type of data processing is likely to result in a high risk to the  rights and 
freedoms of natural persons. Article 35 (3) (c) GDPR stipulates that controllers are required to carry 
out  data  protection  impact  assessments  if  the  processing  constitutes  a  systematic  monitoring  of  a 
publicly  accessible  area  on  a  large  scale.  Moreover,  according  to  Article  35  (3)  (b)  GDPR  a  data 
protection  impact  assessment  is  also  required  when  the  controller  intends  to  process  special 
categories of data on a large scale.  

137.  The  Guidelines  on  Data  Protection  Impact  Assessment27  provide  further  advice,  and  more  detailed 
examples  relevant  to  video  surveillance  (e.g.  concerning  the  “use  of  a  camera  system  to  monitor 
driving behaviour on highways”). Article 35 (4) GDPR requires that each supervisory authority publish 
a list of the kind of processing operations that are subject to mandatory DPIA within their country. 
These  lists  can  usually  be  found  on  the  authorities’  websites.  Given  the  typical  purposes  of  video 
surveillance  (protection  of  people  and  property,  detection,  prevention  and  control  of  offences, 
collection of evidence and biometric identification of suspects), it is reasonable to assume that many 
cases of video surveillance will require a DPIA.  Therefore, data controllers should carefully consult 
these  documents  in  order  to  determine  whether  such  an  assessment  is  required  and  conduct  it  if 
necessary.  The  outcome  of  the  performed  DPIA  should  determine  the  controller’s  choice  of 
implemented data protection measures.  

138.  It is also important to note that if the results of the DPIA indicate that processing would result in a high 
risk  despite  security  measures  planned  by  the  controller,  then  it  will  be  necessary  to  consult  the 
relevant supervisory authority prior to the processing. Details on prior consultations can be found in 
Article 36.  

 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

27 WP248 rev.01, Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether 
processing is "likely to result in a high risk" for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679. - endorsed by the EDPB  

Adopted 

 

33 

