 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 
 

PRESS RELEASE

July 14, 2020

 
 
 Suspend facial recognition in Europe!
“We need a social debate about critical tech
nologies"
 
Whether Clearview AI, PimEyes or FindFace – technical ones are emerging all over the world
Applications that use modern facial recognition on a large scale – and with it
remove our anonymity in public space. identification of demonstrators
ants, background research on new employees or spying
of the new swarm – the new image search engines make it possible.
 
For example, the Polish platform PimEyes analyzes according to current research by
netzpolitik.org. "Masses of faces on the Internet according to individual characteristics and
saves the biometric data". Any user can use this database to
upload a person's photo and view it anywhere on the web
this face is already found. This makes it possible for one person at all
to "catch" possible life circumstances and situations - at demonstrations or
Parties, at party conferences, on vacation or on dating sites. In fact, it is possible
every person you meet on the street and from whom you might
even takes a snapshot unnoticed, to have it checked by the database
senior
 
The facial recognition service advertises that it already has 900 million faces in its data
bank (in 2018 it was “only” 100 million faces). Will the photo
uploaded to the platform by a person, it will be linked to the database by
PimEyes matched and linked to similar faces. with the help of a
conventional image is linked there to other images, such as on the
Website of the data subject's place of work or on their social media
Accounts that determine the identity of that person. This works according to the research

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

from netzpolitik.org with frightening accuracy, including photos from
People who can only be seen in the background of a recording or from the side.
 
"This is an alarming development," says the state representative for the
Data Protection and Freedom of Information Baden-Württemberg (LfDI), Dr. Stefan Brink.
"We are dealing with blatant violations of the law here: even the recording of the
image and uploading it to such a platform constitutes a violation of the law
in the data subject's own image. And for further processing
images through the platform, there is no data protection-compliant legal basis - oh-
Without the consent of the person concerned, nothing can happen.”
 
According to DS-GVO it is forbidden to use biometric data for unique identification
use by natural persons. The LfDI Stefan Brink warns: "This service
urges you to encroach on someone else's rights - that becomes civil law
Claims for damages entail!” Loads a user the photo of another
person at PimEyes without their consent, he violates the right on
own picture.
 
“Facial recognition technology threatens the liberal democracy in which we live
live, any anonymity is abolished. Not anonymous in public space
Being able to move – think of demonstrations, for example – is massively restrictive
Fundamental rights such as freedom of expression or informational self-determination."
emphasizes Stefan Brink. For use of such services by security authorities
there is no independent legal regulation in Germany which would give rise to
Purpose and limitations of face matching area-specific, precise and standard-
clearly stipulates. But this border crossing is already being discussed and
tested in individual cases, for example after the G20 riots in Hamburg.
  
"It is particularly worrying that particularly sensitive biometric data is being stored in the
be collected on a large scale, which allow a clear identification of a person
possible and the potential for total social or state surveillance
remote. Any political, religious, sexual or other private peculiarity or behavior
tenweise will be recorded and associated with me as a person; this
constitutes a severe restriction of the personal freedom of the individual!”
warns the LfDI.
And that has clearly foreseeable consequences: people will be wary of dealing with personal
public attitudes or beliefs when they
always have to reckon with being photographed and identified. "This will

- 3 -

our freedom and democracy are under immediate threat!”
 
Brink therefore demands: "Apart from the consistent application of data protection
Basic Regulation DS-GVO, we as a society should also take action against these
development and the misuse of our immutable biometric
resolutely oppose characteristics. We need a social
n replacement with critical technologies that threaten our freedoms - and until
there a suspension of the use of such techniques – at least in Europe.”
 
 
The research by netzpolitik.org is available at:
https://netzpolitik.org/2020/faces-search-engine-pimeyes-schft-anonymitaet-ab/
 
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-23.
 
Further information on data protection and freedom of information can be found in the
Internet at www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at
www.datenschutz.de.
 
The press release is available on the Internet at http://www.baden-
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de.
 
 

