 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

711.402.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

June 27, 2019

Data Protection Adaptation Act – alleged reduction in bureaucracy is one

milkmaid bill

 

The Bundestag is planning the second in today's last session before the summer break
EU data protection adjustment and implementation law to be passed. With that more
than 150 German specialist laws to the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (DS-
GMO) to be adjusted. The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information,
Maja Smoltczyk warns against the extensive and in parts questionable draft law
to push through in the present version.
 
Among other things, the draft provides for raising the threshold above which companies are obliged
are to appoint a data protection officer. Previously, this threshold was 10
employees entrusted with the processing of personal data. In the future there should be one
There is no obligation to nominate employees for more than 20 employees.
 
Companies often feel left alone when it comes to implementing data protection regulations.
However, they are not helped by relaxing the obligation, of all things, to
ensure expertise in the company. Because even without the obligation to order from
Data protection officers must fully comply with the complex requirements of the GDPR
be implemented. Otherwise there is a risk of violations and sanctions. As head of
The supervisory authority of a start-up metropolis is the Berlin data protection officer
particular concern that companies are well advised on the subject of data protection. Especially
in this area where artificial intelligence and big data are of growing importance,
Small companies often process large amounts of highly sensitive data. Will data protection
If this is not taken into account from the beginning and continuously monitored, there is a risk of far-reaching
Violations of fundamental rights, but also high material and immaterial damage for the
affected companies. Data protection officers ensure competent legal and
technical advice. They help prevent violations in advance and reduce the risk of
to keep fines and administrative orders with serious consequences to a minimum. They act as mediators
between companies and the supervisory authority and are the first point of contact in the event of breakdowns,
so that action can be taken quickly and correctly. Those under severe lack of resources
Suffering regulators are unable to compensate for this important work. Out of
For these reasons, the concept of the company data protection officer, the one
German peculiarity, for decades and thus long before the entry into force of the
GDPR proven.
  
Maja Smoltczyk:
“The planned regulation suggests a decrease in bureaucracy for small companies, yes
this calculation will not add up. Without a regulated data protection management and that
The know-how of experts is the implementation of data protection regulations for companies
expected to be more labor intensive and expensive. I recommend affected companies and associations
therefore urgently, even without a legal obligation, continue to contact data protection officers
designate and appropriately equip.”

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 0
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   