1/14

 File No.: PS/00033/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated 04/20/2021 inter-
filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. the claim
is directed against the MINISTRY OF HEALTH with NIF S7800001E (hereinafter, the part
claimed you). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows: the claim
ment states that, in response to a complaint filed with the Service of
Patient Care of the CAM hospital, has received a response to the one attached
medical report relating to a third person.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 05/14/21 said claim was transferred to the claimant.
called, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform this Agency within a period of
month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the
data protection regulations. There is no record in this Agency of the claim's response.
do.

THIRD: On 09/06/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of con-
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Protection Regulation)
tion of Data, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following
extreme tips:

There is a document from the Ministry dated 09/23/2021, signed by the
Delegate Committee for Data Protection of the Ministry of Health of the Community
city of Madrid.

In relation to the transfer of the claim referred to in the background section
(carried out in the context of file E/05274/2021), indicates the claimant's brief
do that "it is not until last 09/27/2021 when this Committee has been aware
of the same, given that there have been incidents of different kinds in the Registry of en-
trada”.

In relation to the facts object of the claim, the defendant's brief provides the following:
following information:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

Chronology and nature of the incident:
A report made by the Hospital in relation to the facts claimed is attached.
(Appendix 1).

This report, dated 09/22/2021, includes the following description of facts:

“1.- On March 26, 2021, there was an entry in the registry of the Customer Service
tion to the Patient of the University Hospital of La Princesa, with number ***CLAIM-
TION.1, claim filed by Ms. A.A.A..

On the occasion of the aforementioned claim, on April 6, 2021, a written
of ***POSITION.1, attaching a copy of the report made by ***POSITION.2, where
He answered the questions planned by the patient.
It is important to note that this response to the now claimant before the AEPD was
correctly sent to the address provided by the patient herself in her letter, this
is, at ***ADDRESS.1. This can be seen in the claim and response.

2.- Subsequently, on the following March 30, 2021, it was entered in the registry of the
Patient Care Service, a claim filed by the patient Ms. B.-
B.B., with number ***CLAIM.2.

The response to this claim was sent on April 13, 2021, attached
presenting the report of the Service (...), where answers were given to the questions raised
given by the patient Ms. B.B.B..

However, effectively, due to an error in indicating the address and recipient of
the answer, it was sent to Ms. A.A.A., which is why she has presented
claim before the AEPD, expressing concern that his report has been re-
given to someone else. However, it should be noted that the reply addressed to Ms.
B.B.B., and received by the claimant Ms. A.A.A., was sent to the same address to the
that the letter of April 6, 2021 was sent that answered his claim.

Therefore, it should be noted that the personal data of the claimant, Ms. A.A.A.,
have not been affected by not having sent the answer to their claim to any
wrong address. This information is also stated in the claim and answer.
tion of Ms. B.B.B., which are attached as document 2.

3. This Management Department has not been aware of any claim filed
given in this sense by Ms. A.A.A. until last September 6, 2021,
when the claim and request for information from the
AEPD.”

In relation to the causes that would have led to the report being sent to the destination
incorrect natary, the Hospital points out in its report that it was due to "an error when preparing
the reply addressed to Ms. B.B.B., by transcribing an address and recipient that
were incorrect, so that it was wrongly sent to Ms.
A.A.A..” Likewise, the Ministry in its letter qualifies it as “specific human error”.

Documents 1 and 2 referred to in Annex 1 are attached to the petitioner's brief:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

-

Document 1 includes:

o The copy of the claim filed by the claimant with the Hospital with attestation
date of 03/26/2021. In it, the address recorded for the complaining party is ***DI-
RECTION.1.

o Written referral of the claim to the service (...) of the hospital from the service of

patient care.

o Letter addressed dated 04/06/2021 by the Hospital to the claimant with numbers
check-out number ***CLAMATION.1 indicating, in relation to the complaint
submitted previously, which sends a copy of the "report made by Dr. C.-
DC.".
either
to the claim of the complaining party.

Report dated 04/06/2021 signed by Dr. C.C.C. What does the answer refer to?

-

Document 2 includes:

o The copy of the claim filed by the third person (Mrs. B.B.B.) before the

Hospital dated 03/30/2021.

o Letter of referral of the claim of this third person to the service (...) of the hos-

from the patient care service.

o Letter addressed dated 04/13/2021 by the Hospital to the claimant party that-
points out, in relation to the previously filed complaint, that a copy of the “in-
Form performed by Dr. D.D.D.”

o Report dated 04/08/2021 signed by Dr. D.D.D. which includes the Hospital stamp and
refers to the response to a claim from a third party about a medical intervention related to
related to (...) carried out by Dr. The personal data of the third party that appears
in the report are your name and surnames, and detailed information about the medical technique.
indicator used in the intervention.

Number of affected parties, categories of exposed personal data and subsequent use:
The Hospital points out that the incidence has had only one affected (the third person
about which the report received by the complainant dealt with). Thus, express citation
mind that "only the personal data reflected in the
Report of Doña B.B.B. and they have been disclosed to a single person (Mrs.
A.A.A.)”. Likewise, it indicates that it has no evidence that this information has been
used by others.

Communication to those affected:

The Hospital states in its report that the affected person (Ms. B.B.B.) “was informed ver-
sure that the reply had been sent to another address when he went in person.
personally to the Hospital Patient Care Service.”

Information on the recurrence of these events and the number of similar events
events in time:

The Hospital states in its report that “it is the first time that there is knowledge
of a claim of this type, without the patient Ms. A.A.A. was directed in none
some time to the Hospital to report this incident.”

Incident reaction measures:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

The Hospital expresses in its report that “when the claim was received, independently
immediately, all the information related to the events was collected, in order to be able to identify
Identify the causes of the incident and prevent its recurrence in the future.
In addition, the staff will be reminded of the importance of taking the utmost care in
replies sent, having to verify on more than one occasion that the data
personal data entered are the correct ones, given the relevance and sensitivity of the
personal data of patients and their special protection.” He also cites his commitment
compliance with the regulations in accordance with the "Patients and Users of Health Guide" elaborated
approved by the AEPD.

The defendant in his writing also states that "the Department of Health of the Co-
community of Madrid has implemented measures to preserve the security of the
training and the rights and freedoms of citizens, including me-
measures of an organizational nature that include the regular and periodic training of the
staff of the assistance centers of the Madrid Health Service (SERMAS) that
It is considered as an ideal measure to prevent human errors such as the one that
do. Although this measure is considered appropriate, it does not prevent them from occurring, it does not
However, as can be seen and has been stated, it is the first error
of which there is evidence. In any case, this CRPD will proceed to review the plan
training center to assess whether additional training is required in your center.
other work."

Notification to the AEPD:

In relation to the non-notification to the AEPD, the respondent states that the facts
“They have not been assessed as a security breach, but as a security incident.
dad.”

In this regard, he adds the following explanation: “It is indisputable that the dimension of the
security associated with confidentiality has been violated, however they have been valued
parameters of data volume, type of incident and its impact, determining
determined that its risk has a limited damage for the purposes of considering it as a
security breach that must be notified to this Agency, since
does not pose a high risk to the rights of the only affected citizen, taking into account
The content of the reports sent due to human error also counts.
punctual.

However, despite not qualifying as a security breach that should be subject to
of communication to this Agency, in accordance with the provisions of article 33 RGPD, yes
HPRI activity can be considered as proactive in relation to what was planned
in art. 34 RGPD, since the affected party was informed that their data had been
forwarded to someone else by mistake.”

FIFTH: On 03/17/2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged infraction
tion of articles 32.1 and 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) and 83.5.a)
of the RGPD, with a warning.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the person claimed at the time of this resolution

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

tion has not submitted a brief of allegations, so what is indicated is applicable
in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, which in its section f) establishes that in case
of not making allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initial agreement
ciation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a pro-
precise statement about the imputed responsibility, so we proceed to
dictate Resolution.

SEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 04/20/2021 the affected party filed a claim with the Spanish Agency
Data Protection, stating that, in response to a complaint filed with
the Patient Care Service of a hospital belonging to the public system of the
CAM has received attached medical report relating to a third person.

SECOND: There is a written response to the claim filed by the
claimant before the Patient Care Service of the public hospital of the CAM of
04/13/2021.

THIRD: Report dated 04/08/2021 signed by Faculty is attached to the above letter.
vo specialist although corresponding to a third person.

FOURTH: The respondent in writing dated 09/23/202 has stated that:

  “On 03/30/2021 Mrs. …, (different person) filed a claim (No. ***RE-
CLAMATION.2) that was attended to on 04/13/2021 but that, due to a human error,
non-timely was forwarded to the claimant, …

The claimant's details have not been disclosed to any person…”

And that “..., only the personal data reflected in the In-
form of Doña … (person other than the claimant) and they have been disclosed to
a single person (the claimant), that is, the personal data that has been seen
affected correspond to the identification data of name, surnames and data
health of a single person.

In relation to the problem that caused the incident, the Hospital indicates in its report
which corresponds to an "error when preparing the answer addressed to the claimant,
by transcribing an address and recipient that were incorrect.”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each autho-
authority of control and according to what is established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
Data processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with
subsidiary character, by the general rules on administrative procedures
you."

II

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 “Initiation agreement in the procedures
sanctions of a punitive nature”, provides:

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the regulations

operators of the procedure so foresee it.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible qualification
tion and the sanctions that may correspond, without prejudice to what results from the
instruction.

c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with

express indication of the system of recusal of the same.

d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and rule that attributes it.
buy such competence, indicating the possibility that the alleged perpetrator may
voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the effects provided for in article
85.

e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the competent body.
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that may be
adopt during the same in accordance with article 56.

f) Indication of the right to make allegations and to be heard in the proceeding.
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in the event of
make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement,
this may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a pronouncement
precise statement about the imputed responsibility.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out at a later stage.
through the preparation of a List of Charges, which must be notified to the
interested”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no

side arguments to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

III

The facts denounced materialize in the access to third party data such as
consequence of the response offered to a complaint filed by the claimant before
the Patient Care Service of the hospital that is part of the public health system
of the CAM, to which is attached a medical report relating to a third person.
 
The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that must govern the treatment of
personal data and mentions among them that of integrity and confidentiality, pointing out
landau:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the personal data.
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)”

IV

The infraction that is attributed to the claimed is typified in the art.
Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, which considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the ar-
Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article.
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the apartments constitute infractions.
4, 5 and 6 of Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those resulting
are contrary to this organic law”.

And in its article 72, it considers for prescription purposes, which are: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
entail a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular,
ticular, the following:
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
two in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”.

v

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed, violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, by allowing

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

access to personal data belonging to a third person by ser-
referred to the claimant in the scope of a complaint medical report of said third party.

SAW

Second, it should be noted that the security of personal data

It is regulated in articles 32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD.

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of pro-
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons,
the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and organizational measures
appropriate channels to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which in its
case include, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-

permanent silence of treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore availability and access to personal data

promptly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness

of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
torized to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
feel article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee
warrant that any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge
do and have access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the
Union or of the Member States.

7th

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
greater amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 73, for prescription purposes, qualifies

of “Infringements considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following
following:

g) The breach, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence, of the
technical and organizational measures that have been implemented as required
by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

(…)

(…)”

viii

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as “all
all those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or illicit ration of personal data transmitted, conserved or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

From the documentation in the file, there are clear indications of
that the claimed party has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when an incident of
security when sent to the claimant as a result of a complaint filed
before the customer service of a hospital of the public health system of the
CAM medical report containing data from a third person, breaking the
technical and organizational measures.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned provision does not establish a list of
the security measures that are applicable according to the data that is
object of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
will apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk that
treatment entails, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of applying
cation, the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of
probability and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate.
to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the technical and
Organizational activities must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures
you give.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the security level, parti-
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
authorized to said data and that could cause physical, material and
them or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the processing from violating the
established in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the
risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption.
These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including confidentiality.
taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application with respect to
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data to be protected. To the
assess the risk in relation to data security, should be taken into account
the risks arising from the processing of personal data, such as the destruction
accidental or unlawful loss, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data, conservation
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such
data, susceptible in particular to cause physical, material or
immaterial”.

In the present case, as evidenced by the facts and within the framework of the
investigation tooth E/05274/2021 the AEPD transferred the claimed on 05/14/2021 the
claim submitted for analysis and reporting to this Agency
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations
tive of data protection, without responding to the aforementioned request.

However, the respondent has indicated in a document of (...) that "it is not until
past 09/27/2021 when this Committee was aware of it, since
there have been incidents of various kinds in the entry register”. in this writing
provides detailed information on the incidence produced and decisions adopted.

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the insurance bankruptcy.
evidenced by the claimant, since he is responsible for making decisions
tions aimed at effectively implementing the technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the
confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing access to the
in the event of a physical or technical incident. In this case, although the party claimed
states that it had security measures in place to prevent incidents like this,
the truth is that they were not fulfilled, leading to the security breach

In accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the respondent would be presumed
fully responsible for the infringement of article 32.1 of the RGPD, typified infringement
in its article 83.4.a).

IX

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories

responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions

tions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.

b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or de-

pending from the Public Administrations.

e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment

related to the exercise of powers of public law.

h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies

autonomous communities, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When the persons in charge or persons in charge listed in section 1
had any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will issue resolutions
tion sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish
as the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct the effects
cough of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
gain of which it depends hierarchically, in his case, and to those affected who had the
Interested party status, if any.

3. Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding section, the protection authority
tion of data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when
there are sufficient indications for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to
apply will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning system.
dor that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.
gives.

4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority.
tions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the
previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
tions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
ferred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infringement
tion.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In accordance with the available evidence, the conduct of the claimant

mado constitutes an infringement of the provisions of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD.

It should be noted that the LOPDGDD, consistent with what is established in its article
Article 83 RGPD, contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of resorting to the sanction of
warning to correct the processing of personal data that is not appropriate
to its forecasts, when those responsible or in charge listed in the section
1 committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law.

The Hospital belonging to the public health network belonging to the CAM where
incident occurred, has indicated in the report presented that “when the
received the claim, immediately all the information related to the
facts, in order to be able to identify the causes of the incident and prevent
see it repeated in the future. In addition, to remind staff of the importance of extreme
Take maximum care in the replies sent, having to check in
more than one occasion that the personal data entered is correct, given the
relevance and sensitivity of the personal data of patients and their special pro-
protection” It cites its commitment to the regulations in accordance with the “Guide for patients and
Users of Health" prepared by the AEPD and that everything was due to "an error in the ele-
Prepare the response addressed to the claimant, by transcribing an address and recipient
that were wrong…”

For his part, the defendant in his brief has indicated that everything was due to a
punctual human error and that “the Ministry of Health of the Community of Madrid has
measures have been implemented to preserve the security of the information and the rights
rights and freedoms of citizens, including measures of a
organization that include the regular and periodic training of the staff of the centers
care centers of the Madrid Health Service (SERMAS), which is considered as
an ideal measure to prevent human errors such as the one that occurred. Although this me-
measure is considered adequate, it does not prevent them from occurring, however, as
As can be seen and has been shown, it is the first error that we have
constancy. In any case, this CRPD will proceed to review the training plan
of the center to assess whether additional training is required in your workplace.

Therefore, it is considered that the respondent's response was reasonable,
correcting the incident that had affected a single person, not proceeding

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

urging the adoption of additional measures, having adopted ca-
technical and organizational nature in accordance with the regulations on protection
tion of data to prevent situations like the one that gave rise to
to the present claim, which is the main purpose of the procedures res-
aspect of those entities listed in article 77 of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH of the CAM, with NIF S7800001E
for infringement of articles 32.1 and 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) and
83.5.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF HEALTH of the
CAM.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-
CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following
Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPA-
CAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the city
tada Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
documentation that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
vo. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious appeal-
within a period of two months from the day following the notification of the
This resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

