11/1

 File No.: EXP202206481

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 6, 2022 A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party)
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against HERON CITY VALENCIA MANAGEMENT S.L. with
NIF-B83122937 (hereinafter, the claimed party).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the following: on June 6,
2022, by email that he provides along with his claim, he requested the party
claimed, after having tried to make your request in person at the
facilities of the claimed party, access to images from the system of
video surveillance located in its facilities, receiving a response that it provides, in the
that the claimed party indicates that such access is not possible, except when there is prior
complaint, being requested by the Police or authorized personnel, understanding the part
claimant that said response is not in accordance with the data protection regulations.

SECOND: On July 12, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

THIRD: On August 30, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 15 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

FOURTH: Notification of the aforementioned initiation agreement in accordance with the established norms
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the claimed party submitted a written
of allegations in which, in summary, he stated that among his duties he did not include
finds the video surveillance system and the processing of personal data
personnel recruited through said system.

It also states that it is not aware that the claimant appeared at its offices or
who communicated personally or by telephone their intention to exercise any right
(an issue, on the other hand, that the claimant does not prove in any way), if it is
true that you sent an electronic communication to the email address
marketing@heroncityvalencia.com announcing that if it does not provide "access
to recordings in which I am recorded in his mall” would put him in
knowledge of this Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

In this sense, it indicates that the email address to which the interested party
directed is not related to the processing of personal data or to the
means of contact enabled for the exercise of the rights of the interested parties in
the framework of the shopping center in question.

FIFTH: On September 21, 2022, the instructor of the procedure agreed
carry out the following tests, assuming they have been reproduced for probative purposes the
claim filed by A.A.A. and its documentation, the documents obtained and
generated during the phase of admission to processing of the claim, and the report of
previous investigation actions that are part of the procedure
AT/02740/2022.

Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the
initiation of the referenced sanctioning procedure, presented by HERON CITY
VALENCIA MANAGEMENT, S.L., and the accompanying documentation.

SIXTH: On September 26, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
penalize HERON CITY VALENCIA MANAGEMENT, S.L., with NIF B83122937, for
an infringement of article 15 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, with
a fine of €10,000 (ten thousand euros)

SEVENTH: On October 10, 2020, in response to the proposal of
resolution handed down, the defendant entity presented allegations stating that it has
contacted HERON CITY MEDITERRÁNEO, S.L., which claims to have a
contract for the provision of services with a company that manages the maintenance of the
installation of the CCTV (closed circuit television) equipment of the Center
Commercial of Heron City of Paterna.

By virtue of said contract, both HERON CITY MEDITERRÁNEO, S.L. -as
responsible for the treatment of the data obtained from the activity of video surveillance-
as the contracted company -as the person in charge of the treatment- are the only
entities with access to the personal data object of this file.

Despite the fact that both entities, HERON CITY VALENCIA MANAGEMENT, S.L., and
HERON CITY MEDITERRÁNEO, S.L., belong to the same business group, the
The requested entity states that it is not empowered to contribute to this procedure
copy of said contract.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On June 6, 2022, the claimant requests access to the images
from the video surveillance system located in its facilities, and the part
claimed
email from
marketing@heroncityvalencia.com as follows:

answers

his

you

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

"We indicate that the images from the video surveillance cameras can only be
required by authorized personnel or the police, and only in the event that there is a
prior complaint, so we recommend that you file the complaint.

However, we indicate that the cameras are not continuously recording, they record
for periods of time.

In case the police ask us, we would need to know the date, exact location
and time slot as close as possible to is if there is a recording in that
period.

We also indicate that the recordings self-destruct after 15 days if there is no
no police request.”

SECOND. As a consequence of the foregoing, this Agency considers that it was not
respecting the right of access of the complaining party to their personal data,
as established in article 15 of the GDPR.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

The physical image of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is data
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the GDPR defines the concept of "processing" of personal data.

The images generated by a system of cameras or camcorders are data of
personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the protection regulations
of data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the denounced video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

II

Article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes the assumptions that allow the use of
processing of personal data.

Regarding treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the treatment of images through systems of cameras or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
facilities.

Article 15 of the GDPR, recognizes the right of access stating the following:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain confirmation from the data controller
whether or not personal data concerning you is being processed and, if so,
right of access to personal data and the following information:

a) the purposes of the treatment;

b) the categories of personal data concerned;

c) the recipients or categories of recipients to whom they were communicated or will be
communicated personal data, in particular recipients in third parties or organizations
international tions;

d) if possible, the expected period of conservation of personal data or, if not
if possible, the criteria used to determine this term;

e) the existence of the right to request from the person in charge the rectification or deletion of
personal data or the limitation of the processing of personal data relating to the interest
data, or to oppose said treatment;

f) the right to file a claim with a control authority;

g) when the personal data has not been obtained from the interested party, any information
mation available on its origin;

h) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in Article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information
information about the logic applied, as well as the importance and the consequences foreseen
of said treatment for the interested party.

2. When personal data is transferred to a third country or to an international organization
national, the interested party shall have the right to be informed of the appropriate guarantees in
under article 46 relating to the transfer.

3. The data controller shall provide a copy of the personal data object of
treatment. The person in charge may receive for any other copy requested by the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

terested a reasonable fee based on administrative costs. When the interest
application is submitted by electronic means, and unless the latter requests that it be
otherwise provided, the information will be provided in a commonly used electronic format.
bad

4. The right to obtain a copy mentioned in section 3 will not negatively affect
to the rights and liberties of others.”

IV.

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
video surveillance, to comply with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. Personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by
other means, recital 39 of the GDPR.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a subsequent purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles
12 and 13 of the GDPR, and 22 of the LOPDGDD.

In this sense, article 22 of the LOPDGDD provides in relation to video surveillance
a “layered information” system.

The first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the treatment
(video surveillance), the identity of the person responsible, the possibility of exercising the rights
provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and where to obtain more information about the
processing of personal data.

This information will be contained in a device placed in a sufficiently
visible and must be provided in advance.

Second layer information should be easily available in one place
accessible to the affected person, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc…,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
other elements of article 13 of the GDPR.

4.- Images of the public thoroughfare cannot be captured, since the treatment of
images in public places, unless there is government authorization, only
It can be carried out by the Security Forces and Corps.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/6

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
cameras installed on facades or inside, may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public thoroughfare.

That is, cameras and camcorders installed for security purposes may not be
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for said purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in such a case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surroundings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those that access the space
guarded.

Images cannot be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties without the
consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them
find.

It is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such as
changing rooms, lockers or rest areas for workers.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, property or facilities.

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent authority within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
recording existence.

6.- The controller must keep a record of processing activities
carried out under his responsibility in which the information to which he makes
reference article 30.1 of the GDPR.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt security measures.
appropriate security.

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood to be the destruction, loss or accidental alteration or
unlawful transfer of personal data, stored or otherwise processed, or the
communication or unauthorized access to said data.

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a qualified private security company
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:







the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section "Reports and resolutions" / "regulations"),
the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available at the
section "Guides and tools").

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool Facilitates (in the "Guides and tools" section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
indicative security considered minimum.

V

In the present case, the right of access to the claimant is denied, stating that he
lack of competence or treatment of such data as expressed in the
allegations forwarded to this Agency, but it indicates to the claimant that they will be
denies access to them because according to the claimed entity they only have
right of access to recordings by authorized personnel or the police.

It follows from these statements that the respondent entity acknowledges that it leads to
carry out recordings and therefore is responsible for the processing of personal data, in
of the image, and that in this case the right of access to the
claimant.

Throughout the proceedings, the claimed entity claims not to be the responsible entity,
and affirms that he cannot provide the document that confirms it despite stating that the
responsible is another entity of the same business group.

In this sense, note that those in charge of treatment have the obligation to
assist the controller, taking into account the nature of the processing, through
appropriate technical and organizational measures, whenever possible, so that this
can comply with its obligation to respond to requests that have the purpose of
the exercise of the rights of the interested parties established in chapter III, according to
provides for article 28.3.e) of the GDPR. This obligation is incumbent on all managers
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

whether or not they are part of the manager's business group and the contract must
stipulate how the processor will provide that assistance to the controller.

In this case we do not know what type of assistance has been agreed or even the
claimed certifies that he acts as the person in charge of the treatment and even in the case of
act as data processor, the claimed entity should have at least transferred
the request for access to the person in charge, since the evaluation of whether the requests of the
Interested parties are admissible or if the requirements established by the GDPR are met
must be carried out by the data controller, as stated in the Guidelines
07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR. Version 2.0.
adopted on July 07, 2021.

Thus, even if the claimed entity were in charge, it would be responsible for the
infringement since it made the decision not to provide the claimant with access to the recording
instead of transferring it to the person in charge

Therefore, it is considered that the facts exposed, that is, not giving access to the
claimant to the recordings that were made about him and his vehicle in the
facilities of the defendant, and not being able to prove their lack of responsibility,
considers that article 15 of the GDPR has been violated, which implies the commission of
an infringement typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which provides the following:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22; (…)”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

k) The impediment or the obstruction or the reiterated non-attention of the exercise of the
rights established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR.

SAW

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

Therefore, it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed according to the criteria that
establishes article 83.2 of the GDPR, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 GDPR.

Article 83.2 of the GDPR establishes that:

"Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, as an addition to or substitute for the measures contemplated in article
Article 58, section 2, letters a) to h) and j).

When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case
dual will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

  j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

In the present case, the clear intentionality of
of the entity claimed for the commission of the acts object of this procedure
sanction, according to article 83.2 b) of the GDPR, since access is not allowed by
part of the claimed entity, to the recording images of the image of the
complainant and his vehicle, nor indicate to whom he could exercise such
rights, in the event that such services were entrusted to another company
belonging to the same business group, as it has indicated in its allegations.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the sanction that would correspond to be imposed would be 10,000
euro.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE HERON CITY VALENCIA MANAGEMENT, S.L., with NIF
B83122937, for a violation of article 15 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5
of the GDPR, a fine of 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to HERON CITY VALENCIA
MANAGEMENT, S.L.

THIRD: Warn the penalized person that they must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

