Press release: Data on the web – how do I tell my child? - LMS and UDZ hold online parents' evening on the subject of data protection
 
 01/27/2022
 
 
 
 
 privacy
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
Saarbrücken, January 27, 2022: On the occasion of the European Data Protection Day on tomorrow, Friday, January 28, 2022, the Saarland State Media Authority, in cooperation with the Saarland Independent Data Protection Center, organized an online parents' evening in advance on the subject of data protection - how do I tell my child? Online games, video platforms or social networks: Adolescents are using digital media earlier and earlier – even from kindergarten age. With the first clicks on the web, parents can sensitize their children to the topic of data protection, create a safe surfing environment and ensure that offers are trustworthy, or generally register and download apps together. The online parents' evening provided an overview of how parents can support children in learning to deal with their personal data consciously and critically on the Internet and provided tips and assistance for more data protection on the Internet. "The online parents' evening on the subject of data protection is an excellent introduction to the main topic of 2022 at the LMS: gaming. Because when using digital games, data protection is often overlooked or neglected. However, there are numerous stumbling blocks lurking there, from harassment in chat to the unconscious disclosure of personal data," says LMS Director Ruth Meyer. "I am therefore particularly pleased that we were able to raise awareness of this topic in cooperation with the independent data protection authority. An important start to the event year 2022!”. Saarland's data protection officer, Monika Grethel, adds: "The interests of children and adolescents in particular require special protection in view of the many dangers of digital space. Raising awareness as early as possible and accompanying guidance from parents and teachers are the guarantee that children and young people develop into mature and responsible participants in an increasingly digital reality of life. As part of the online parents' evening, the parents were able to receive helpful tips on how children can be given age-appropriate support in order to be able to use the Internet independently and independently." for the exchange with experts and other parents. In addition to parents, teachers and educators are also invited. Participation is free of charge. Further dates: 23. March 2022 (topic: gambling, daddling, gaming - digital games) and on June 02, 2022 (topic: My selfie & I - self-portrayal in social media). Contact for press inquiries: Julia Kaiser (press officer), email: kaiser (at) LMSaar.de, phone: 0681 38988-11
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 Press release: Data on the web – how do I tell my child? - LMS and UDZ hold online parents' evening on the subject of data protection
 
 (PDF document)
 566KB
 