Opinion 37/2021 on the  draft  decision  of  the  competent
supervisory authority of Malta regarding the approval of the
requirements  for  accreditation  of a  code  of  conduct
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR

Adopted on 30 November 2021

Adopted

Table of contents

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS................................................................................................................ 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4
Analysis of the MT SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring

bodies 5

GENERAL REMARKS......................................................................................................... 5
LEGAL STATUS ................................................................................................................. 6
INDEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................... 7
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 8
EXPERTISE........................................................................................................................ 9
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 9
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINTS HANDLING ........................................................................ 9
COMMUNICATION WITH THE COMPETENT SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY....................... 10
CODE REVIEW MECHANISM.......................................................................................... 10
REVOCATION OF A MONITORING BODY ....................................................................... 10
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS......................................................................................... 10
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................. 11

Adopted

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply
during the accreditation of a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does
promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the
competent SAs to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section 12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written
guidance explaining the accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach.

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes. They shall, however, apply the consistency
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result,
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR.

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term “accreditation”. However,
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body.
There  are  a  number  of  requirements, which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

Adopted

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2)
GDPR to obtain accreditation.

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should
take  into  consideration  the code’s sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of
conduct and their monitoring bodies.

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each
code.

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair,
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject
matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

The Office of the Information and Data Protection Commissioner of Malta (hereinafter “MT SA”) has
submitted  its  draft  decision  containing  the accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of  conduct
monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent
approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness of the file was taken on 5 October 2021.

ASSESSMENT

General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted draft  accreditation
requirements

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2)
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements

Adopted

4.

5.

6.

7.

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly
to ensure consistency.

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and
medium  sized  enterprises.” (Article  40  (1)  GDPR). Therefore, the  Board  recognises  that  the
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk.

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.

When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the
MT SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the MT SA, which are outside the scope of article
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.

Analysis of the MT SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s
monitoring bodies

8.

Taking into account that:

a. Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct.

the Board is of the opinion that:

GENERAL REMARKS

9.

10.

One of the tasks of the Board is to ensure consistency between requirements submitted by national
supervisory authorities. For the sake of clarity the Board considers that the overall structure of the
draft requirement submitted by MT SA should be improved. Therefore, with the aim to facilitate the
assessment  and  ensure  consistency,  the  Board encourages  MT  SA  to  follow  the  structure  of  the
Guidelines in the draft requirements and to adjust titles of the subsection and their order to it.

For  the  sake  of consistency,  the  Board encourages MT  SA  to  adjust terminology  used  in  the
requirements to the terminology used in the Guidelines, this applies in particular to the following
terms: ‘code owners’, “monitoring body”, ‘accreditation’. Also, clarification of what is meant by “legal
position” (section 3.2), “good repute”, “suitability in decision-making”, “beneficial owners” (section
4.1.vii), analytical accounting systems (section 4.3.ii), any logical separation raising barriers between

Adopted

the monitoring body and the code owners / members (section 4.3.iii) other relevant bodies (section
5), principle  of  natural  justice (section  7) and substantial  change (section  9) would  be  of  help.
Moreover, as throughout the text MT SA is using the term “undue” influence, the Board suggests to
delete the word “undue” as a monitoring body must be free not only from “undue” but from any
external influence.

11.

12.

The Board encourages MT SA to correct several typos in the opinion, such as non-for-profit in section
3.1. In the same section, the Board encourages MT SA, for the sake of consistency, to state that a
monitoring body must be “established” (not “incorporated”) in the European Union.

The Board is of the opinion that examples help in understanding the draft requirements. Therefore,
the  Board encourages MT SA  to  include in  the draft  accreditation  requirements some  additional
examples. In particular, the Board invites MT SA to add:

















example of what is meant by “good repute” (section 3.2);

examples of additional duties that may be performed by the monitoring body (section 3.5);

examples of monitoring body’s services to code members which could adversely affect its
independence (section 4.1);

examples regarding how to ensure the independence of the monitoring body in performing its
tasks and exercising its powers (section 4.3);

examples of situations where there is a conflict of interests and where there is no such conflict
(section 5);

examples of how the monitoring body may demonstrate expertise (section 6);

examples of sanctions that may be set out in the code of conduct (section 8);

examples  of substantial  changes that  may  affect  the  capacity  of  the  monitoring  body  to
monitor the code (section 9).

13.

For the sake of consistency, with respect to the application of the code, the Board encourages MT SA
to move section 3.4 to the “Introduction” part of the requirements, since it seems to connect to all
requirements and not just the legal status requirement. Moreover, the Board encourages MT SA to
further expand the section on application procedure. In particular, this section could state for example,
that accreditation as a monitoring body is only possible in relation to the subject matter of one or more
specific codes of conduct pursuant to Article 41 (1) of the GDPR, contain minimum requirements for
the application for an accreditation and state in which form applications for accreditation must be
submitted.

LEGAL STATUS

14.

As regards the provision stating that in the event that the monitoring body is established in an EEA
country other than Malta, the legal framework of such EEA country shall incorporate legal provisions
that are substantially equal to Maltese legislation regulating legal and natural persons, in particular
with  regards  to  their  liability  at  law,  the  Board encourages MT  SA  to  clarify the meaning of  this
provision, in particular the term “substantially equal”.

Adopted

15.

16.

In the same section in the sentence, “[t]he requirements indicated herein shall apply to both external
and internal proposed monitoring bodies, unless specified otherwise” the Board encourages MT SA to
clarify what it means by “unless specified otherwise”.

In section 3.2, the Board is of the opinion that it should be explicitly mentioned that the monitoring
body should have a legal capability of being fined. In the same section, the Board encourages the MT
SA to strengthen the wording when referring to evidence by stating that it “shall” not “may” include
evidences as listed by MT SA.

17.

In section 3.3, the Board encourages the MT SA to state that the monitoring body “have access” instead
of “shall have access” to necessary resources.

18. With  respect  to  section  3.5  “Other  functions”,  the  Board encourages MT  SA  to  move  it  to  the
“Independence” section instead, as this provision relates more to the independent functioning of the
monitoring body rather than its legal status.

19.

20.

21.

22.

In section 3.6 of the draft requirements, MT SA correctly states that the monitoring body may farm
out certain monitoring activities to other entities acting as sub-contractors. In the opinion of the Board,
to a limited extent and under certain conditions it is possible for the monitoring body to outsource
certain activities. However, it should be clear that the decision-making process cannot be outsourced.
Therefore, the Board encourages MT SA to clarify in the requirements whether "certain monitoring
activities" refer to the decision-making.

As regards section 3.6 the Board considers that the monitoring body, in addition to be the ultimate
responsible for the decision-making, is also responsible for compliance when it uses subcontractors.
The Board encourages MT SA to add a relevant reference. Moreover, the Board encourages MT SA to
include an explicit requirement for subcontractors to comply with their data protection obligations.

Additionally, the Board underlines the need to specify requirements relating to the termination of the
contract, in particular so as to ensure that the subcontractors fulfil their data protection obligations
related to such a termination, and encourages the MT SA to add such remark.

As regards the same section, the Board is of the opinion that the code of conduct itself needs to
demonstrate that the operation of the code’s monitoring mechanism is sustainable over time and
covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring body being unable to perform the monitoring
function. In this regard, a monitoring body should demonstrate that it can deliver the code of conduct’s
monitoring mechanism over a suitable period of time. Therefore, the Board recommends the MT SA
to explicitly require that monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over
time. Moreover, a clear indication that financial stability and resources need to be accompanied with
the necessary procedures to ensure the functioning of the code of conduct over time should be added.

23.

For the sake of consistency, the Board encourages MT SA to replace term “responsibilities at law” with
“ultimate responsibility”, as the monitoring body has responsibility not only according to law, but the
ultimate responsibility for decision-making and compliance when it uses subcontractors.

INDEPENDENCE

24. With respect to independence, the Board believes that it should be ensured at any time, not only
during the decision-making process, therefore in section 4 of MT SA’s draft requirements, the Board
recommends the MT SA to add the following wording “These rules and procedures shall therefore

Adopted

ensure  the  complete  autonomy  of  the  monitoring  body  from  any  direct  or  indirect  influence  or
pressure at any time”.

25.

26.

As regards legal and decision-making procedures and ensuring that the decision-making personnel of
the monitoring body has no convergent interests with the entities subject to monitoring, the Board is
of  the  opinion  that the  monitoring  body must  (and  not  “may”) bring  information  concerning  the
activities (gainful or not) in which its personnel is engaged (section 4.1.vi) to the code owner, thus
encourages MT SA to incorporate relevant clarification in its requirements.

As regards section 4.1.viii, the Board underlines that the duration or expiration of the mandate of the
monitoring body must be regulated in such a way to prevent overdependence on a renewal or fear of
losing  the  appointment,  to  an  extent  that  adversely  affects  the  independence  in  carrying  out  the
monitoring activities by the monitoring body. The Board encourages the MT SA to explicitly mention
this matter in its requirements and to provide examples regarding duration and expiration.

27. With respect to section 4.1 and requirements an internal body has to demonstrate, the Board notes
that  not  all  requirements  from point  65  of Guidelines  were  mentioned  by  MT  SA. The  Board
encourages the MT SA to add missing requirements.

28.

29.

30.

In the section 4.2 “Financial independence” a reference not only to financial resources but also to other
resources  should  be  mentioned,  thus  the  Board recommends that  the  MT  SA  require  that  the
monitoring body should have access to adequate financial and other resources to fulfil its monitoring
responsibilities, especially for the accreditation of a natural person.

Regarding section 4.2 on the financial independence of the monitoring body, the Board notes that the
elements to be taken into account in this assessment, have not been addressed. Such elements include
the size and complexity of the code members (as monitored entities), the nature and scope of their
activities  (as  the  subject  of  the  code) and  the  risk(s)  associated  with  the  processing  operation(s).
Therefore,  the  Board encourages MT SA  to  add these  elements to  the  relevant  section  of  the
requirements.

The  monitoring  body  shall  have  an  adequate  and  proportionate  number  of  staff  members. These
aspects could be demonstrated through the procedure to appoint the monitoring body personnel, the
remuneration of the said personnel, as well as the duration of the personnel’s mandate, contract or
other formal agreement with the monitoring body. Therefore, the Board recommends to MT SA to
provide suitable requirements for organisational aspects of the independence of the monitoring body
and  add  the  above-mentioned  references  regarding  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body  in
performing its tasks and exercising its powers, in accordance with the Guidelines.

31.

Finally, with  respect  to  internal  monitoring  bodies,  the  Board encourages the MT  SA  to  add  a
requirement to prove that a specific, separated budget is allocated to such bodies by the code owner.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

32. With respect to section 5 of the requirements, and the provision stating that “the monitoring body
must remain free from external or internal influence” the Board encourages the MT SA to clarify what
is meant by “internal influence” or use the term “direct or indirect” influence. In this context, it should
be underlined that the Guidelines in paragraph 68 only refer to “free from external influence, whether

Adopted

direct  or indirect,  and shall  neither  seek  nor  take  instructions  from  any  person,  organisation  or
association.”

33.

As regards Section 5 and the sentence “A monitoring body which is internal must be appropriately
protected from any sort of sanctions or interference (whether direct or indirect) by the code owner,
other relevant bodies, or code members as a consequence of the fulfilment of its tasks”, the Board
encourages the MT SA to delete the reference to “internal”, as this requirement shall apply also to
external monitoring bodies.

EXPERTISE

34.

The  Board  observes  that  in  the section  6  of  the draft requirements  the  MT  SA  makes  distinction
between legal and technical personnel. The Board encourages the MT SA to clarify that the technical
requirements of the personnel will depend on whether this is necessary for the code at stake or not.

35. Moreover, the Board recommends to clarify in this section that in order to demonstrate expertise of
the  staff  on  specific  personal  data  processing, different  interests  involved  and  the  risks  of  the
processing activities addressed by the code should also be taken into account.

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES

36.

37.

In section  7 of  the draft requirements,  MT  SA  stated  that  “The  monitoring  body  shall  remain
responsible  to  ensure  that  any  information entered  into  its  possession  whilst  carrying  out  its
monitoring functions remains confidential unless it is required to disclose such information or it is
exempt by law”. The Board encourages the MT SA to clarify what it meant by situations requiring
disclosure of information, different from exemption by law.

As regards section 7.2 “Monitoring of compliance”, the monitoring body must demonstrate that it has
a procedure for the investigation, identification and management of code member infringements to
the  code  and  additional  controls  to  ensure  that  appropriate  action  is  taken  to  remedy  such
infringements of the  code.  The  Board encourages the MT  SA to  include  relevant  reference  in  the
requirements.  Moreover,  as  there  are  also  other  ways  than  audit  to  monitor controllers’  and
processors’  compliance  with  the  code  the  Board encourages MT  SA  to make  clear  that review
procedures can include not only audits, but also inspections, reporting and the use of self-monitoring
reports or questionnaires.

38.

The  Board  encourages  MT  SA  to  avoid  using  the  term  “penalties”  and  use  “corrective  measures”
instead.

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINTS HANDLING

39.

In  Section  8  “Transparent  Complaints  Handling”,  MT  SA  mentioned  that  handling  complaints “is
organized  in  a  manner  that  a  dedicated  and  segregated  section  of  the  monitoring  body  oversees
complaints, when feasible”. The Board encourages MT SA to explain in which cases oversight by a
dedicated  and  segregated  section would  not  be  possible.  Moreover,  the  Board  suggests  adding  a
requirement that where it is not possible to have such a separated section, a justification should be
brought forward.

Adopted

40. With respect to the same section, the Board encourages MT SA to add provisions regarding publication
of the decisions - at least regarding publication of summaries or statistical data. Moreover, the Board
encourages MT SA to add procedural requirements regarding complaint-handling process, in particular
the right to be heard and duty to provide relevant information.

COMMUNICATION WITH THE COMPETENT SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY

41.

As  regards section 9  “Communication  with  the  competent  supervisory  authority”, for  the  sake  of
consistency  with  other  opinions, the  Board encourages MT  SA  to  replace  the  reference  to
“communication channels” with “reporting mechanism”.

CODE REVIEW MECHANISM

42.

43.

44.

As regards section 10 “Code review mechanism”, the Board encourages MT SA to align the wording of
this section with the wording of the Guidelines, and explicitly mention that the review mechanisms
should take into account any changes in the application and interpretation of the law or where there
are new technological developments which have impact upon the data processing carried out by the
code members or the provisions of the code.

In the same section, the Board encourages MT SA to ensure that not only the monitoring body but also
any other entity referred to in the code of conduct may, if appropriate, be granted an active and
participative role in the code review process.

REVOCATION OF A MONITORING BODY

In section 11 “Revocation of a monitoring body” in the sentence “In such a case, depending on the
circumstances, prior to the revocation, the competent supervisory authority may give the monitoring
body the opportunity to urgently address the issues encountered and remediate to its infringements
by  taking  the  necessary  corrective  actions.”  The  Board encourages MT  SA  to  replace “may”  with
“should”. In order to align the wording of the draft requirements with paragraph 87 of the Guidelines,
in the sentence “[i]n the case of transnational codes, the competent supervisory authority should
consult and seek the views of the CSAs and communicate that it intends to revoke the accreditation of
the monitoring body to all CSAs and to the Board” the Board encourages MT SA to replace word “CSAs”
with “concerned Supervisory Authorities”.

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

45.

The draft accreditation requirements of the Maltese Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made:

46.

Regarding ”legal status”the Board recommends that MT SA:

Adopted

-

explicitly  require  that  monitoring  bodies  must  demonstrate  continuity  of  the  monitoring
function over time;

47.

Regarding ”independence” the Board recommends that MT SA:

-

-

-

add a reference to the fact that independence is ensured at any time, not only during the decision-
making process;

require that the monitoring body should have access not only to financial but also other resources
necessary to fulfil its monitoring responsibilities;

provide suitable requirements for organisational aspects of the independence of the monitoring
body;

48.

Regarding ”expertise” the Board recommends that MT SA:

-

clarify that in order to demonstrate expertise of the staff on specific personal data processing,
different interests involved and the risks of the processing activities addressed by the code should
be taken into account.

FINAL REMARKS

49.

50.

This opinion is addressed to the Maltese supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the MT SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision.
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.

51.

The MT SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

