11/1

 Procedure No.: PS/00173/2022 (EXP202105347)

RESOLUTION OF THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the entity UNIQUEDESIGN & DECOR, S.L., with CIF.: B87754438 owner of the page
website https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com/, (hereinafter "the claimed party"), under
of the claim presented by Dª. A.A.A., for the alleged violation of the
data protection regulations: Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the Parliament
European Union and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Physical Persons
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Movement of
these Data (GDPR) and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of
Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), and against the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Information Society and Commerce
Electronic (LSSI), and attending to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 10/20/21, a document submitted by
the claimant, in which she indicated, among other things, the following:

“1) On October 22 at 4:45 p.m. it was published by the user
"***USER.1" on the website (***URL.1), presumably (…) of UNIQUE
DESIGN & DECOR S.L, B.B.B., a message accessible to the public in which
Said user published the name and surname "AAA.", claiming that the same
had made a previous publication "slandering" said entity, not
said publication having been made by my client, but by
part of some other user.

2) That additionally, the website of said company
(https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com) does not have a privacy policy
accessible in which the obligations set forth in article 13 are reported
GDPR,
online form
(https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com/contact) in which data is requested
personal (name, email, subject and message).

  to dispose

  of a

  despite

3) That the website of the aforementioned company installs a total of 5 cookies not
essential, without prior express consent and whose purposes are
tracking of accessing users.

A screenshot of the chat in question is provided to the claim document, where you can
read the following comments:

User comment “***USER.1”.- 2021-10-22 16:45 @C.C.C.:

"Good afternoon (deleted by administrator), first you hide your identity
and the second thing you write false things about the company because you do not publish the photo
of your finished pool to see what you think??? I will proceed to put
complaint for slander.

User response “A.A.A.”- 2021-10-22 17:30 @C.C.C.:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

“Good afternoon, ***USER.1. I will not allow you to use my name
about something I have nothing to do with. So go ahead and put the
demands that you consider, that I will be waiting for them. Let's see who is the one
slander whom."

SECOND: On 12/27/21, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4
of the LOPDGDD Law, said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

THIRD: On 01/23/22, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data, an agreement is issued to admit the processing of the claim
presented, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD Law, when assessing possible
rational indications of a violation of the rules in the field of competences
of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

FOURTH: On 01/27/22, the claimed entity presents before this Agency,
written response to the request made where, among others, it indicates the following:

"As responsible for data processing, once the facts have been analyzed
Given the claim of the aforementioned client, we have proceeded to request the
corresponding company the annulment of any personal data,
proceeding later to the verification it has been possible to verify that
Said data has been eliminated, informing the interested party via email of
said facts and issuing the corresponding documentation of information
and consent to the processing of personal data to return it
signed, since the invoice is pending.

The cause of said event was an error on the part of the company when issuing
response regarding an unfavorable comment about my company does not
neither respecting data protection by alluding to me and writing
my name on an unreliable page since it has multiple complaints
by companies in relation to false comments and in which it is possible to
It should be noted that the claimant answered me on that same page...

The company has the implementation of data protection of character
personal, also counting the web page with said implantation and the cookies
corresponding implementation is renewed annually and has its
corresponding quality controls.

FIFTH: On 06/08/22, this Agency accesses the website
www.gowork.com and https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com being aware of the
following extremes, with respect to the processing of personal data, its privacy policy
privacy and cookies policy:

a).- Regarding the publication of the personal data of the claimant without her
 www.gowork.com,
  by the defendant:
consent on the website,
 
 
 
 

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

When accessing the page: ***URL.1, in which the claimant indicates that they have published
your personal data without your consent dated 10/22/21, in a comment of the
chat, it can be checked as of today (05/20/22), the comments posted
by the defendant and by the claimant are the following:

***USER.1, 2021-10-22 16:45, @C.C.C.: Good afternoon (deleted by the
administrator), the first you hide your identity and the second you write things
false about the company because you do not post the photo of your finished pool to
see what you think ???, I will proceed to file a complaint for slander.

A.A.A., 2021-10-22 17:30 @C.C.C.: Good afternoon, ***USER.1. I'm not going
to consent that you use my name on something that I have nothing to do with.
So, go ahead, put the demands that you consider, I will be
expecting. Let's see who is slandering whom.

Therefore, in the comment that the user "***USER.1" makes at 4:45 p.m.
10/22/21, it can be verified as much, in the claim presented on the day
10/20/21, as in the verification carried out by this Agency on 05/20/22, the name
of the recipient of the comment has been deleted by the administrator (...Good afternoon,
(removed by administrator), first thing…).

b).- About the "Privacy Policy" on the claimed website
https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com
 
 :

1º.- When the indicated web page is accessed for the first time, at the bottom
A banner appears on the page with the following information:

We use cookies on our website to see how you interact with it. To the
If you accept them, you agree to our use of these cookies. <<Policy
privacy>>

If you try to access the "Privacy Policy" of the web, clicking on the option,
The website does not display any document that contains information on the privacy policy.
privacy. Only the contact form indicated in the section is displayed
former. There is no other link on the page to a possible "Policy of
Privacy".
 

c).- About
https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com
 
 :

the Cookies Policy in

the claimed web

1.- When entering the web for the first time, once the history terminal equipment has been cleaned
navigation and cookies, without accepting cookies or taking any action on the
web page has been verified, through the tool "inspectapplication
from the Google Chrome browser, which does not use any third-party cookies. The
Own cookies that are used on the web are: "svSession"; “hs” and “XSRF-TOKEN”, no
being able to detect if these cookies are technical and/or necessary or not.

2.- There is an information banner about cookies on the main page with the
following message: “We use cookies on our website to see how you interact

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

with her. By accepting them, you agree to our use of these cookies. Policy
privacy”: <<Options>>

<<Accept>>.

3.- If the cookies control panel is accessed through the link <<Options>>, the
web displays a page or control panel verifying that the groups of cookies
are pre-marked in the "NOT accepted" option:

- Essential Cookies:
-Marketing Cookies:
- Functional Cookies:
- Analytical Cookies:

Off  On.
Off  On.
Off  On.
Off  On.

<<Save>>

If you choose to "Save" the configuration without having accepted any group of cookies,
It is checked how the web continues without using third-party cookies.

4.- If you choose to "accept" all cookies in the banner on the main page, you will
Check how the web continues without using third-party cookies and continues using the
Same own cookies as at the beginning together with the new cookie: "consent".

SIXTH: On 06/08/22, by the Board of Directors of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, a sanctioning procedure is initiated against the claimed entity, at
assess reasonable evidence of violation of the provisions of article 13 of the
GDPR, lacking, on its website, a "Privacy Policy" in accordance with the
stipulated in the article indicated, with an initial penalty of 5,000 euros.

In turn, it was verified that the claimant's personal data had been
deleted by the administrator of the web page ***URL.1, so it could not be
to verify the existence of an illegal treatment of the same.

It was also verified that the own cookies used by the web, being
presumably technical or necessary, would be excluded from the scope of application
of article 22.2 of the LSSI, and, therefore, it would not be necessary to inform or obtain the
consent to its use, considering, therefore, that the "Cookies Policy", of
the website https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com, does not contradict what is stipulated
in article 22.2 of the LSSI.

SEVENTH: Once the start-up agreement has been notified to the claimed party, the latter in writing
dated 06/22/22 formulated, in summary, the following allegations:

"As *** POSITION 1 of the company Uniquehouse & Decor I am writing to you
in relation to the initiation of the Sanctioning procedure No: PS/00173/2022 where
The company is penalized for not having a privacy policy in its
Web page; As you could already see in the previous letter, what was claimed was
corrected everything correctly so the intention of the company is not
bad, please take this fact into consideration in the procedure since
we resorted to an internet platform called "WIX" that offered us the
creation of a web page by not having computer knowledge for the
realization of the same, with an annual payment of which I attach proof of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

payment for which I consider that the responsibility would correspond to the
wix platform for not having done it correctly and not warning me
of said fact , this sanction supposes a gap for our company as
how things are today and the work that is costing us to leave
forward we pay for all LDP, WEB PAGE hoping that everything is
correct and in the end they do not do things correctly and the responsibility is
referred to the company, in case of having to abide by said sanction, which I hope will not
Be it so, we pray for some kind of facility. I don't want to have any debt and we
it is impossible to cope with it, thanking them in advance”.

EIGHTH: On 07/14/22, this Agency accessed the website,
https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com
having knowledge of the following
ends, regarding the processing of personal data and its privacy policy:

If you try to access the "Privacy Policy" of the web, clicking on the option
indicated, the website does not display any document that contains information about the
Privacy Policy. Only the contact form is displayed. does not exist in
the page no other link to a possible "Privacy Policy".

NINTH: On 07/19/22, the respondent entity is notified of the proposed
resolution in which it was proposed that, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data proceed to sanction the entity, in accordance with the provisions of
Articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Administrative Committee of Public Administrations (LPACAP), a sanction of
5,000 euros for the non-existence, on its website, of a "Privacy Policy" and
that, order it, as a measure, in accordance with the provisions of art. 69 of
the LOPDGDD, the inclusion of the necessary information on its website, which must
provide to the users of the page, in accordance with the provisions of article 13
of the GDPR.

TENTH: Notified the proposed resolution to the complainant, dated 07/29/22,
receives in this Agency a written statement of allegations to the proposal, in which it is indicated:

"As *** POSITION 1 of the Uniquehouse & Decor company, I am writing to
you in relation to the initiation of the Sanctioning procedure No: PS/00173/202l
where the company is sanctioned for not having a privacy policy in its
Web page ; As you could already observe in the previous writing, an attempt has been made
correct everything correctly by requiring the Wix platform to correct it
not receiving a response from you or from the company in charge of the
data protection reiterating to me that the intention of the company is not
bad, we have proceeded to hire another company with the corresponding
disbursement that this takes committing to solve everything for me as soon as possible
Please take this fact into consideration as I already commented on it.
previous writing, this sanction supposes a gap for our company as
how things are today and the work that is costing us to leave
forward we pay for all LDP, WEB PAGE hoping that everything is
correct and in the end they do not do things correctly and the responsibility is
referred to the company, in case of having to abide by said sanction, which I hope will not
Be it like that, we pray for some kind of facility. I don't want to have any debt and it is

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/6

impossible to deal with it, otherwise we will be forced to close said
company, thanking you in advance, receive a cordial greeting”.

ELEVENTH: On 08/03/22, a new letter was received from the defendant
in which he states the following:

 

"As a result of the alarming requirements made by the AEPD, the
proceeded to hire a professional service in terms of data protection
as it is our intention to review and correct any possible incident not
detected by the former Data Protection company.

The website should have been supervised and updated by the company
which at the time was hired for aspects of data protection and
apparently they have not given the timely follow-up. In view of the
claim we have proceeded to hire a professional firm in this
matter through whose advice is proceeding to the revision and
Correction of any possible incident. We will be available shortly
to report on the new measures adopted to comply with the
General Data Protection Regulation on the website in particular and in
the company in general”.

TWELFTH: On 09/26/22, this Agency accessed the
Web page,
having knowledge of the
following extremes, with respect to its privacy policy:

 https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com

If you access the "Privacy Policy" of the web, clicking on the option located
At the top of the main page, the website displays a document that
contains the following information about the privacy policy:

“We receive, collect and store any information you enter on
our website or otherwise provide to us. In addition, we collect
Internet Protocol (IP) address used to connect your computer to
Internet; login details, email address, password,
computer and connection information and purchase history.
We may use software tools to measure and collect information from
session, including page response times, duration of
visits to certain pages, the information of interaction of the page and the
methods used to navigate away from the page. We also collect
personally identifiable information (including name, email,
password, communications), payment details (including account information,
credit card), comments, suggestions, product reviews,
recommendations and personal profile.

When you make a transaction on our website, as part of the
process, we collect personal information that you provide to us, such as your
name, physical address and email address. Your information
personal will be used only for the specific reasons indicated
previously.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

We collect such personal and non-personal information for the following
Purposes: To provide and operate the Services; To provide to
our users ongoing customer support and technical support; To
contact our visitors and users with general notices and
personalized service-related and promotional messages; For
create aggregated statistical data and other aggregated non-personal information or
deducted, that we or our business partners can use to
provide and improve our respective services; To comply with the
applicable laws and regulations

Our company is hosted on the Wix.com platform. wix.com us
provides the online platform that allows us to sell our products to you
products and services. Your data may be stored through the
Wix.com data storage, databases and applications
Wix.com overviews. They store your data on secure servers behind
from a firewallAll direct payment gateways offered by Wix.com and
used by our company adhere to the standards established by
PCI-DSS are administered by the PCI Security Standards Council, which is a
joint effort of brands such as Visa, MasterCard, American Express and
discover. PCI-DSS requirements help ensure the secure handling of
credit card information from our store and its
Service providers.

We may contact you to notify you about your account, to
troubleshoot your account, resolve a dispute, collect fees, or
money owed, to probe your opinions through surveys or
questionnaires, to send updates about our company, or when
as necessary to contact you to enforce our User Agreement,
applicable national laws and any agreements we may have
with you. For these purposes, we may contact you by email
email, phone, text messages and postal mail. If you don't want that
process your data, contact us at uddecor.sl@gmail.com or send us an
Mail to: C/ De la Dehesa Vecinal 6, 28694 Chapineria

We reserve the right to change this privacy policy at
any time, so check back often. The changes and
Clarifications will take effect immediately after their publication in the
Web page. If we make material changes to this policy, we will
we will notify you that it has been updated, so that you know what information
we collect, how we use it, and under what circumstances, if any, we use
or disclose the information.

If you want to: access, correct, modify or delete any information
information we have about you, you are invited to contact us at
uddecor.sl@gmail.com or send us an email to: C/ De la Dehesa Vecinal 6,
28694 Chapineria”.

PROVEN FACTS.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the information and
documentation presented, the following facts have been accredited:

First: In the checks carried out by this Agency on the website https://
www.uniquedesigndecor.com, both on 06/08/22 and on 07/14/22 after
that the person responsible for the page indicate to this Agency that they have corrected the
defects in it, it continues to be verified that if you try to access the "Policy of
Privacy" of the web, clicking on the option, the web does not display any document
containing information about the privacy policy. It only displays the
Contact Form. There is no other link on the page to a possible
"Privacy Policy".

Second: After notification of the resolution proposal and having received the written
of allegations of the claimed party indicating the rectification of the deficiencies in
the "Privacy Policy" of the web page, it was accessed by checking the
following irregularities: There is no identification of the person in charge of the web; No
there is information about the consent given by web users; No
there is information on the legitimacy of the processing of personal data; No
there is information about the possible recipients with whom they will share the data; No
there is information about the time of conservation of personal data; Does not exist
information on the possibility of filing a claim with the AEPD.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

I.- Competition:
 
The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure
of Data Protection, by virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR recognizes
each Control Authority and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
LOPDGDD.

II.- About the "Privacy Policy" of the web https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com:

Regarding the information that the person responsible for the processing of personal data
should be proportional to the users, recital 61) of the GDPR indicates that:

"Stakeholders must be provided with information on the treatment of their
personal data at the time it is obtained from them or, if obtained
from another source, within a reasonable time, depending on the circumstances of the
case. If the personal data can be legitimately communicated to another
addressee, the interested party must be informed at the time the
communicated to the recipient for the first time. The data controller who
plans to process the data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected
must provide the data subject, prior to such further processing,
information about that other purpose and other necessary information. when the origin
of personal data cannot be provided to the interested party because it has been used
various sources, general information should be provided.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

For its part, article 13 of the GDPR details the information that must be
provide the interested party when the data is collected directly from him,
establishing the following:

"1. When personal data relating to him or her is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time they are obtained,
will provide: a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate,
of his representative; b) the contact details of the data protection officer
data, if applicable; c) the purposes of the processing for which the data is intended
personal data and the legal basis of the treatment; d) when the treatment is based
in article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests of the controller or
a third; e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the data
personal, if applicable; f) where appropriate, the intention of the person responsible for transferring
personal data to a third country or international organization and the existence or
absence of an adequacy decision from the Commission, or, in the case of
transfers indicated in Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49(1),
second paragraph, reference to the adequate or appropriate guarantees and the
means to obtain a copy of these or the fact that they have been provided.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
processing will provide the interested party, at the time the data is obtained
personal data, the following information necessary to guarantee a
fair and transparent data processing: a) the period during which
will keep the personal data or, when this is not possible, the criteria
used to determine this term; b) the existence of the right to request the
responsible for the treatment access to personal data relating to the
interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its treatment, or to
oppose the treatment, as well as the right to data portability; c)
when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9(2)(a), the existence of the right to withdraw the
consent at any time, without affecting the legality of the
treatment based on consent prior to its withdrawal; d) the right to
file a claim with a control authority; e) if the communication
of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a requirement
necessary to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of
not provide such data; f) the existence of automated decisions, including the
elaboration of profiles, referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, when
least in such cases, significant information about the applied logic, as well
as well as the significance and expected consequences of such processing for the
interested".

Therefore, the fact that the website in question can obtain personal data from the
users and that there is NO, in its "Privacy Policy" the information that is
required, as established in article 13 of the GDPR, constitutes an infringement of the
same.

In this sense, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD, considers it very serious, for the purposes
of prescription, "the omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment
of your personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of a maximum of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the GDPR.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanction to
imposed in the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction according to
with the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR:

- Section a), the duration of the offence. Taking into account the time that the
claim is filed with this Agency on 10/20/21 and already then
denounced that the web page in question lacked a Privacy Policy.

Pursuant to the foregoing, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection,

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity UNIQUEDESIGN & DECOR, S.L., with CIF.:
B87754438, owner of the website https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com/, a
penalty of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros) for violation of article 13 of the GDPR,
regarding the lack of information provided to the interested parties at the time of
obtain your personal data through its website

SECOND: ORDER the entity UNIQUEDESIGN & DECOR, S.L to modify,
within a month, the information provided in the "Privacy Policy" of your
web page https://www.uniquedesigndecor.com adapting it to the provisions of the
article 13 of the RGPD, as well as to inform this Agency within the same period of
the measures taken.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity UNIQUEDESIGN &
DECOR, S.L.

FOURTH: Warn the penalized party that the sanction imposed must be made effective by
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, within the voluntary payment period indicated in the
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account No. ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the
Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in
executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reversal before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
within a month from the day following notification of this
resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of
contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to what
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the firm resolution may be temporarily suspended in administrative proceedings if
The interested party declares his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

