

Bonn/Berlin, March 13, 2020


Press release 07/2020


DSK provides information on data protection and Corona
The Data Protection Conference (DSK), the body of the independent German federal and state data protection supervisory authorities, publishes information for employers and employers on how to deal with data protection in connection with the corona pandemic. The data protection officers make it clear that the protection of personal data and measures to combat infection do not conflict with one another.

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) Professor Ulrich Kelber said: We have received questions as to how data protection can be implemented in a legally secure manner in this special situation. I am glad that the data protection supervisory authorities can now make a joint recommendation on this. Information about our health is very sensitive data. Anyone who collects or processes such data must be aware of their special responsibility. As long as the measures taken by employers and employers are proportionate, data protection does not stand in the way of infection control. Because the health of the citizens is now the focus.
Data can be collected and used in accordance with data protection regulations for various measures to contain the corona pandemic or to protect employees. For example, personal data may be collected from employees in order to prevent the virus from spreading among the workforce as best as possible. It is also possible to collect personal data from guests and visitors. You can find detailed information on how to deal with data protection during the corona pandemic on the BfDI website.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











