1/18

 Procedure No.: PS/00107/2022 (EXP202202837)

RESOLUTION SANCTION PROCEDURE

By Agreement dated 03/11/22, the sanctioning procedure was initiated,
PS/0107/2022, instructed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before D.
A.A.A., by virtue of the claim presented by D. B.B.B., on behalf of its
minor daughter, for the alleged violation of the regulations for the protection of
Data: Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of
04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Physical Persons with regard to the
Processing of Personal Data and the Free Movement of these Data (RGPD), and
violation of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal Rights and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), and based on
the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 03/02/22, you have an entry in this Agency, writing presented by
the claimant, in which he indicated, among other things, the following:

"In the court ruling it is described how the defendant threatened and blackmailed
my underage daughter to send her sensitive images via chat
Instagram and WhatsApp. Through Instagram communications begin on
10/15/19 at 23:20 and by WhatsApp the communications that are preserved
They are as of 01/02/20.”

Along with the claim document, provide the data and dates of the Instagram accounts
and WhatsApp and telephone numbers of the defendant and his underage daughter.

A copy of Judgment No. XX/02020 of Juvenile Court No.
(...).- Reform File number XXX/2020 (Prosecutor's Office number XXX/2020), where
The following is stated in the “Proven Facts” of the Judgment:

That the defendant, browsing the Instagram application, met the minor
of age (Claimant's daughter) aged 13, entering into such a close relationship
of confidence that the minor sent him videos and photos of an intimate nature,
both through the Instagram application and through WhatsApp.

That, after some time, the defendant demanded that the girl follow him
sending photos and videos, but since she refused, the defendant intimidated her
telling him that he would upload the photos and videos he already had to social media.

That the minor, fearful of her threats, sent (...).

SECOND: On 03/09/22, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Protection of Data, an agreement is issued to admit the processing of the claim
presented by the claimant, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD Law,
when assessing possible rational indications of a violation of the rules in the field
of the powers of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

THIRD: On 03/11/22, by the Board of Directors of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, sanctioning procedure begins when appreciating indications
reasonable violation of the provisions of article 6.1 of the GDPR, imposing
an initial penalty of 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros).

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified to the claimed person, the latter by means of
brief dated 04/06/22 made the following allegations:

"PREVIOUS. - Go ahead that at the time of the facts my
represented was a minor, and was 16 years old, without even
He will not even be forced to delete the videos that are the object of litigation because in his
statement stated that they had been deleted and that inferring to the minor that
send him more videos because if he didn't post them on the internet it was and was for what
has been sentenced, that is to say for that conditional threat requiring more
videos, insisting that they were deleted.

VIOLATION OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL PRINCIPLE "NON BIS IN IDEM”

The defendant was convicted criminally in the referenced File of
Reform as author of a crime of conditional threats, in accordance
between the parties the measure of four months maximum of socio-educational tasks,
oriented to a sexual affective program and gender perspective.

This fundamental right is recognized in art. 18.4 C.E. is the one
is violated. Said article provides that "The Law shall limit the use of the
information technology to guarantee the honor and personal and family privacy of the
citizens and the full exercise of their rights". According to repeated
jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, article 78.4 CE contains a
institute for the guarantee of the rights to privacy and honor, and to full
enjoy the remaining rights of citizens, and therefore also, "the
fundamental right to data protection, understood as the right to
freedom from potential attacks on the dignity and freedom of the
person from an illegitimate use of the automated treatment of
data, what the Constitution calls "informatics". (STC 290/2000 of 30
November, in its Fundamental'7"; SRC 743/7994' of May 9 in its
Foundation J"; STC 17/7998 of January 13, in its Foundation 4").

The constitutional and legal configuration of the fundamental right to protection
of data (specifically through the Organic Law on Data Protection)
confers on its holder a series of powers to guarantee its protection, and Ie
gives peculiarities in its content, which distinguishes it from others since
confers on its owner a series of powers consisting of imposing on third parties,
certain legal duties, which, for example, are contained in the law
fundamental to privacy, that is, "guarantees the person a power of
control over your personal data", which is only possible and effective
imposing on third parties certain duties to do (namely: the right to
that prior consent is required for the collection and use of data
personal information, the right to know and be informed about the destination and use of the
data, and the right to access, rectify and cancel said data. to avoid
this type of interference, the LOPD grants the Spanish Agency of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

Data Protection the protective and preventive nature of such rights, to
ensure, through its exercise, the safeguarding and ensuring the right
fundamental to the protection of said personal rights in relation to the
limits, to the use of computing.

The Spanish Data Protection Agency, after completing the proceedings
previous inspection carried out since the month of May, has given transfer
the final inspection report to the Investigating Court No. XX of Madrid, and
has launched a disciplinary procedure, which is suspended
until the resolution of the criminal judicial procedure given the pendency of the
same, as provided for in the Administrative Procedure legislation.

The criminal process will question the sanctioning reaction of the AEPD in its day,
since the judicial resolution that is definitively handed down in the criminal process
will condition its action as a consequence of respect for the non bis principle
in idem, included in article 25.7 of the Constitution, which constitutes a
true fundamental right of the citizen in our law.

The "non bis in idem" principle has a double dimension, as explained by the
STC 188/2005, of July 7:

a) Material or substitute that prevents sanctioning the same fact with the same
same disproportionate punitive.

b. The procedural or formal, which proscribes the duplication of procedures
sanctions in case there is a triple identity of subject, fact and
foundation, and which has as its first concretion "the rule of preference or
precedence of the criminal judicial authority over the Administration with respect to
its performance in disciplinary matters in those cases in which the facts
to sanction may be, not only constituting an administrative infraction, but also
also crime or misdemeanor according to the Penal Code. Therefore, it will be necessary
determine whether both in the criminal procedure and in the procedure
sanctioner there is total identity, or on the contrary, there is some element
novelty that excludes the application of the Principle.

The ECHR did not begin to consider the question of the criminal characterization of
a procedure with the first application of art. 4, but had already entered
to assess these disquisitions on the occasion of the application of the guarantees of the
art. 6 of the Convention relating to fair trial. First, you enter
to consider the classification of the offense and its sanction by law
national. In the event that domestic law classifies these as criminal or
criminals, will automatically be classified as such for the purposes of the convention.

TWO.- LACK OF PUBLICATION TO THIRD PARTIES OF ANY
THE VIDEOS THAT THE MINOR (14 YEARS OLD) SENT TO THE MINOR (16 YEARS OLD)
YEARS).

There is no evidence whatsoever, with which it can be determined that the data of
personal nature in terms of videos sent some voluntarily by the
minor through the INSTAGRAM and WHATSSAP applications, have been

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

disclosed to third parties and not only that there is no proof that said
personal data have not been disclosed to third parties, but rather
stated that said videos had been deleted and that those sent without
consent of the minor are exclusively due to criminal reproach
suffered with the Judgment that, according to the complainant, contributes to his
written complaint, in addition to the ignorance of the age of the minor, but
for whose acts he was sentenced for conditional threats, threats
that were based not on the own sending of said vices but on the demand
that could be carried out for the minor, regarding the person who was also a minor.

THIRD.- REGARDING THE CONSENT OF THE MINOR, THE
ILLEGITIMATE USE BY THE LESSER OF THE NETWORKS
SOCIAL, BREACH OF PARENTAL OBLIGATIONS OR
IMPLIED CONSENT FOR THE USE OF NETWORKS
SOCIAL COMPANIES THAT DO NOT REPORT THEIR APPS TO MINORS.

The Royal Decree 1720/2001, of December 27, which approves the
Regulations for the development of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
protection of personal data, literally says:

Section 1 Obtaining the consent of the affected party

Article 12. General principles.

1.- The data controller must obtain the consent of the
interested personal character unless required in accordance with the treatment
of your data itself from in no to those cases in which the Io provided in
laws. The request for consent must refer to a treatment or
series of specific treatments, with delimitation of the purpose for which they are
collects, as well as the remaining conditions that occur in the treatment
or series of treatments.

2.- When the consent of the affected party is requested for the assignment of their
data, he must be informed in such a way that he knows unequivocally the
the purpose for which the data will be used with respect to whose communication
requests the consent and the type of activity carried out by the assignee.
Otherwise. consent will be void.

3.- The person responsible for the treatment will be responsible for the existence of the
consent by any means of evidence admissible by law.

Article 13. Consent for the treatment of data of minors.

1.- The data of those over fourteen may be processed
years with your consent, except in those cases in which the Law requires
for its provision the assistance of the holders of parental authority or guardianship.
In the case of minors under fourteen years of age, the consent of
parents or guardians.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

2.- In no case may data be collected from the minor that allows obtaining
information about the other members of the family group, or about the
characteristics thereof, such as data relating to the professional activity of
parents, economic information, sociological data or any other
others. In no case may data be collected from the minor that allows obtaining
information about the other members of the family group, or about the
characteristics of the same, such as the data related to the professional activity of
parents, economic information, sociological data or any
others, without the consent of the owners of such data. However, they may
collect the identity and address data of the father, mother or guardian with the
sole purpose of obtaining the authorization provided for in the previous section.

3.- When the treatment refers to data of minors, the
information addressed to them must be expressed in a language that is
easily understandable by those, with express indication of the provisions
in this article.

4.- It will correspond to the person in charge of the file or joint treatment the
procedures to ensure that the correctness of the
age of the minor and the authenticity of the consent given in his case, for
parents, guardians or legal representatives.

Article 14. Form of obtaining consent.

1.- The controller may request the consent of the
interested party through the procedure established in this article, except
when the Law requires the same to obtain express consent for the
treatment.

2.- The person in charge may address the affected party, informing him in the terms
provided for in articles 5 of LO 15/1999, of December 13 and 12.2 of
this regulation and must grant them a period of thirty days to express
refusal to treatment, warning him that in case of ruling to such
effect, it will be understood that you consent to the processing of your personal data
staff.

In other words, in Instagram's own conditions of use you can
clearly read what is the minimum age to create a profile on Instagram
just like WhatsApp.

But of course, made the Law cheated. If a preteen under the age of 14
years old, you want to create a profile on Instagram, all you have to do is vary a few
numbers of your date of birth.

There is also the issue of parental control, that is, if our inferior son or daughter
14 year old wants an Instagram profile, we can create it with our
authorization and then activate parental control, which we understand that this must
be the case... right?... Without the existence of consent being controversial
express of a minor under 13 years of age from an Instagram and WhatsApp account.
Who has consented for the minor to have an account on Instagram and on

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

WhatsApp? Parents? , Who has bought the mobile to the minor? , the
parents? , because the parents do not report, activate or control what their
13 year old daughter with a mobile.

The defendant has responded with respect to criminal justice. Parents shouldn't
to answer anything regarding their parental obligations?

At the most favorable point for parents.... Consequently, is the
tacit consent? That is, that consent has been obtained by
writing and that this has not been expressly stated (although neither
YOUR opposition) what is understood that there is authorization for it, since it is not
there is evidence to the contrary that the parents were unaware that their daughter was not
had the Instagram or WhatsApp applications, or documented
that he fences without hesitation, the express opposition to his daughter having Instagram.

Is there that tacit consent of the person who holds parental authority, for
application of Article 14.2 of the Regulation?

Are parents responsible for non-compliance with Article 154 of the Code
Civil, insofar as this is defined as ... Parental authority, as
Parental responsibility will always be exercised in the interests of the sons and daughters, in
accordance with their personality, and with respect for their rights, their integrity
physical and mental... this is also being breached by the parents, they must
Does the Social Services have knowledge of said individual?

Instagram prevents adults from sending private messages to people
under 18 if they are not followed. In this way, if an adult pretends
write to a teenager, a notification will come that it is not possible to send him
a Direct Message.

As for WhatsApp, its security and privacy positioning is still
more severe and says: ...About the minimum age to use WhatsApp

If you reside in a country of the European Economic Area (including the Union
Union) or in any other country or territory that is part of it
(collectively referred to as the European Region), you must be at least 16 years of age (or
more, if required by the legislation of your country) to register in WhatsApp.

If you reside in a country that does not belong to the European Region, you must have at
least 13 years (or more, if required by the legislation of your country) to
register in WhatsApp and use the service.

For more information, see our Terms of Service.
Note:
Creating accounts with false information constitutes a breach of
our Conditions.

The registration of accounts on behalf of other minors also
constitutes a breach of our Conditions. report a minor
age

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

If a minor in your care created a WhatsApp account, you can show them
how to remove it For information on how to delete an account,
Check out our Help Center.

If you want to report an account that belongs to a minor, please,
send us an email. In your email, provide the
following documentation and delete or hide any personal information not
related:
Proof that the WhatsApp number belongs to you (for example, a copy of a
government-issued ID and a phone bill
with the same name) Proof that you are the minor's legal representative (for
example, copy of the child's birth or adoption certificate)

Proof of the minor's date of birth (for example, a copy of the certificate
of birth or adoption of the minor)

If we can verify that the WhatsApp account belongs to a minor
old, we will deactivate it immediately. You will not receive any confirmation of
this action. Our ability to review and take action
about a report is greatly improved if you provide us with all
information that we just requested.

If we cannot verify that the reported account belongs to a minor, it is
we may not be able to take action on it. case, if you are not
representative of the minor, we recommend that you encourage the person representing him to
that you contact us using the instructions described above.

A question that their own parents never did. The already claimed
responded regarding the more punitive justice such as criminal justice, should they
answer the parents of the minor regarding their obligations that typify the
parental authority of 154 of the Civil Code? Should an investigation be initiated into
through social services about whether parents do not comply with their
obligations and consequently the minor must be protected?

FOURTH.- SCOPE OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL OR MORAL DAMAGE SUFFERED BY
THE MINOR.

There is no accredited psychological or moral damage in the criminal procedure
nor is there evidence of civil liability attributable to the defendant. By
all of it,

I REQUEST THE DIRECTOR: That she consider this document presented, as
admit, so that, after the appropriate legal procedures, the ARCHIVE proceeds,
of this file for all the arguments put forward in the body of the
this document, and all this prior to the practice of the evidence requested
in the body of this document:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

- That, as means of proof, it is requested that the Court of
Minors (...) to send a complete and witnessed copy of the Record of
Reform No. XXX/20.

-That the company Instagram S.L. located in Finca la Vaqueria. crta
Belvis del Jarama k, MADRID, to provide supporting documents of the
privacy policy and also that it be provided, upon request to the
parents of the minor of the name of his Instagram profile as well as the
parental consent for use by the
minor, or if in his case the data was falsified in order to create a
Instagram at only 13 years old.

-That it be officiated at the company WhatsApp Inc, with smb email
web@support.whatsapp.com
 
      and tax address at 1601 Willow Road (MenIo
Park of California 94025 ), to provide supporting documents of the
privacy policy and also that it be provided, upon request to the
parents of the minor of the phone associated with WhatsApp as well as the
parental consent for use by the
minor, or if in his case the data was falsified in order to create a
Instagram at only 13 years old.

- That the parents of the minor are required to provide the invoice
Telephone purchase of the telephone or the telephone bill to which your
associated phone to open said apps and justify that they were
knowing that his daughter was the owner of said mobile phone.

.- That the parents of the minor be required to contribute a single
indication about the transmission to third parties of the videos of sexual content that
allegedly the defendant has spread on the Internet.

.- That the Juvenile Court of (...) be required to report on the
measures or socio-educational plan that my principal is studying and he barely
there are a few days left for compliance and consequently said report is not
has at disposal.

ANOTHER I SAY: This part anticipates the nullity of full-fledged Actions
for depriving my principal of the right of defense and not officiating or requesting or putting
implement the requested measures.

FIFTH: On 07/27/22, the claimant is notified of the proposed resolution in
which responded to the allegations raised and proposed that, due to the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency proceed, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP), to
impose a penalty of 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros) on the defendant, for the infringement
of article 6.1 of the GDPR and that it proceed to order, as a measure, the
suspension of all processing of personal data relating to the girl, minor and
deletion of said data, in accordance with the provisions of art. 69 of the LOPDGDD.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

SIXTH: Once the proposed resolution was notified to the claimant on 07/27/22, the
dated 08/12/22, in this Agency writing of allegations to the proposal of
Resolution that is an identical reproduction of the one presented against the initiation agreement
of the present proceeding and which is reproduced in its entirety above.

PROVEN FACTS.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the information and
documentation submitted, the following circumstances have been accredited:

First: As can be seen from Judgment No. XX/02020 of the Juvenile Court
Nº (…) (Reform File number XXX/2020), the defendant demanded from the girl,
underage, to continue sending her photos and videos, but since she
denied, he intimidated her by telling her that he would upload the photos and videos that he already had to the networks
social. Despite his opposition and refusal for the defendant to continue obtaining photos
and intimate videos of her, fearful of her threats, she sent (...) with
images of you to the claimant.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

YO-

Competence.

It is competent to initiate and resolve this Disciplinary Procedure, the Director of
the Spanish Data Protection Agency, by virtue of the powers that art 58.2
of the GDPR recognizes the control authority, as well as what is established in arts. 47,
64.2 and 68.1 of the Law, LOPDGDD.

On the allegations presented to the proposed resolution of the file

II.-

sanctioning.

As a preliminary matter, it is stated that for the Resolution of this
disciplinary proceedings have taken into account the allegations presented by the
claimed throughout the entire procedure and that, in order not to repeat itself, considers them
reproduced.

However, before assessing the offense committed in this case, it must be
make the following considerations regarding the allegations presented to the
resolution proposal:

On the concurrence of the principle "non bis in idem":

This principle, developed in article 31.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on
Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP), "Concurrence of sanctions", establishes:

"1. Acts that have been criminal or
administratively, in the cases in which the identity of the subject is appreciated,
fact and foundation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

And it has the task of guaranteeing the “favor libertatis”, that is, guaranteeing freedom by contributing
legal certainty to the process, through the prohibition, in our case, of the
application of an administrative sanction in those cases in which, to the same
subject, for carrying out a certain act, a criminal sanction could be imposed. EITHER
which is the same, the prohibition of the imposition of a double penal sanction-
administrative, in those cases in which there is identity of subject, fact and
basis.
                                                                             
Its application is subsequent to the sanction of a first event that has already been sanctioned,
worth the redundancy, in criminal proceedings. However, a problem arises when a
fact injures two different legally protected assets, in this case it is
administrative sanction together with the criminal one. Therefore, in order for you to operate this
In principle, the following elements must be present:

-

-

Subjective identity: in this case the affected subject always has to be the
itself, regardless of the nature, the body that has resolved, the
accuser or if there is concurrence or not of others affected.

                                                                                                                                 

The factual identity: this implies that the facts prosecuted must be the
themselves.

-

Causal identity: sanctioning measures cannot apply if
They respond to the same nature.

Well, in our case, regarding the Identity of subjects, we can verify
as in Judgment No. XX/2022 of the Juvenile Court (...) (Exp. De Reforma No.
XXX/2020.- Prosecutor's Office No. XXX/2020) dated 01/25/22, appears as the author of the facts
prosecuted, the defendant, and in this disciplinary file (PS/107/2022),
appears as responsible, the same person, so we can indicate that there is, in
In this case, identity of subjects.

Regarding the identity of the facts, if we read the Ruling of Judgment No. XX/2022 of the
Juvenile Court (...) (Reform Case No. XXX/2020.- Prosecutor's Office No. XXX/2020) of
dated 01/25/22, as a socio-educational measure is imposed on the claimant for a
crime of conditional threats, which occur when the evil with which
threat carries with it a condition, which may or may not be fulfilled and the
imposed condition may be legal or illegal and it may consist of the
claim of an amount or any other circumstance, as established in the
Article 169.1 of the Penal Code:

"Whoever threatens another with causing him, his family or other persons with
which is closely linked to an evil that constitutes crimes of homicide,
injuries, abortion, against freedom, torture and against moral integrity, the
sexual freedom, privacy, honor, heritage and socioeconomic order,
He will be punished:

1st With a prison sentence of one to five years, if the
threatens by demanding an amount or imposing any other condition,
even if it is not illegal, and the culprit has achieved his purpose. Not

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

achieve it, a prison sentence of six months to three years will be imposed. but
this must be possible (…)”,

While the present sanctioning procedure (PS/0107/2022), begins
for an alleged illegal treatment (without consent) of the personal data of the
girl, minor, contemplated in article 6.1 GDPR:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his data
personal for one or more specific purposes (…);

Therefore, in this case, as we could verify, there is no identity in the
facts to which the principle of "non bis in idem" obliges, since in criminal proceedings
sanctioned a conditional threat to the underage girl and in the present
sanctioning administrative procedure is sanctioning an illegal treatment of
the girl's personal information.

Lastly, the identity of the foundation occurs when the legal right protected
for the two (or more) infractions is the same, which brings us to the contest of laws and the
crime contest. Well, in our case, the legal right protected in a crime
of conditional threats, in criminal proceedings, we could define it as the right to
freedom of formation of the will of the threatened person, while the good
legal protection in administrative proceedings would be the protection of the person in relation to
with the processing of your personal data, in this case, the images of the girl.
Fundamental right protected by article 18.4 of the Spanish Constitution.

Therefore, after analyzing the elements that concur in the principle "non bis in
idem" we can determine that, in the present case, its application is not possible, since
identity in the facts or in the grounds, as required by article 31.1
LRJSP.

About the non-existence of the publication of images or videos

On this point we must start by remembering that recital (26) GDPR
indicates that: "The principles of data protection must be applied to the entire
information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (…)”.

Leaving the above established, article 4 GDPR, defines, among others, the following
concepts:

1) As "personal data": "all information about a natural person
identified or identifiable ("the data subject"); will be considered a natural person
identifiable any person whose identity can be determined, directly or
indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as a
name, an identification number, location data, an identifier in
line or one or several elements proper to the physical, physiological,
genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social of said person;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

2) As "data processing": any operation or set of operations
performed on personal data or sets of personal data, either by
automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration, organization,
structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation,
use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or
destruction; (…)

7) As "data controller": any natural or legal person,
authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the
purposes and means of processing (…)

While in article 1 of the GDPR, it is established that:

1. This Regulation establishes the rules relating to the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the
rules relating to the free movement of such data.

And article 2 GDPR:

1. This Regulation applies to the processing in whole or in part
automated processing of personal data, as well as the non-automated processing of
personal data contained or intended to be included in a file.

Therefore, at no time is it established that, in order for the GDPR to be applied
it is necessary that the person responsible for the processing of personal data has
assigned to a third party.

For the GDPR to be fully applicable, it is therefore necessary that the
processing of personal data carried out by the person responsible for them, be it
Apart from communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, any other operation or set of
operations carried out on them, be it the collection, registration,
organization, their structuring, their conservation, their adaptation or
modification, its extraction, its consultation, its use, or its limitation, deletion or
destruction.

Therefore, in the case at hand, the mere collection, registration and conservation of
the images of the girl, a minor, made by the defendant (responsible for the
treatment) are sufficient cause for the application of the GDPR.

On the consent of the minor and the illegitimate use by the
social media minor,

Reference is made at this point to Royal Decree 1720/2001, of December 27, by
which approves the Regulations for the development of Organic Law 15/1999, of 13 December
December, protection of personal data.

Well then, as can be seen from the claim, the communications and the sending of
images of the girl, begin between both minors on 10/15/19 at 11:20 p.m.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

Instagram and WhatsApp. However, the last ones that are conserved made by
this last means are from 01/02/20.

According to article 99 of the GDPR, the entry into force and application of the new GDPR was,
“twenty days after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, the
05/25/16”, being mandatory as of May 25, 2018”. By
Therefore, as of this date (05/25/18), Organic Law 15/1999 was repealed,
(LOPD), applying mandatorily, from that date, the current RGPD.

Regarding Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal Rights and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), published on 12/06/18
It is indicated, upon its entry into force, in its sixteenth final provision that: "The
This organic law will enter into force the day after its publication in the
Official State Gazette" so from 12/07/18 it is mandatory.

For its part, the sole repeal provision of the LOPDGDD establishes:

1. Without prejudice to the provisions of the fourteenth additional provision and the
fourth transitory provision, the Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December, Protection of Personal Data.

2. Royal Decree-Law 5/2018, of July 27, on measures
urgent for the adaptation of Spanish Law to the regulations of the Union
European Union on data protection.

3. Likewise, any provisions of equal or lower rank are repealed
contradict, oppose, or are incompatible with the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and in this organic law.

Therefore, in accordance with section 3 of the Sole Repealing Provision, the Royal Decree
1720/2007 was repealed as of 12/07/18 in those provisions that
"contradict, oppose, or are incompatible with the provisions of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 and in the LOPDGDD."

In the present case, for the processing of personal data to be carried out
legally, these must be processed with the consent of the interested party or on
some other legitimate basis established in accordance with Law, (Considering 40 GDPR),
Article 6.1 of the GDPR is therefore applicable and not RD 1720/2007
used by the defendant.

Thus, the aforementioned article 6.1 GDPR establishes that the processing of data
Personal information will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his data
personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the
interested party or for the application at the request of this of measures
pre-contractual;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
applicable to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or
of another natural person.

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the person responsible
of the treatment;

f) the processing is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that
such interests are not overridden by the interests or the rights and freedoms
of the interested party that require the protection of personal data,
in particular when the interested party is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the
first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment carried out by the
authorities in the exercise of their functions.

But, what's more, since the interested party is a minor, as is the case in our case,
We must bear in mind the provisions of art. 7 LOPDGDD:

"1. The processing of personal data of a minor only
may be based on your consent when you are over fourteen years of age. HE
Except for those cases in which the law requires the attendance of the holders of the
parental authority or guardianship for the celebration of the legal act or business in which
context the consent for the treatment is obtained.

2. The treatment of the data of minors under fourteen years of age, based on the
consent, it will only be lawful if that of the holder of parental authority or
guardianship, with the scope determined by the holders of parental authority or
guardianship." The minors whose data has been processed by the defendant are
perfectly identifiable and that their identity can be determined, directly or
indirectly.

Therefore, Articles 2, 13 and 14 of the Articles cannot be considered in the present case.
Royal Decree 1720/2001, of December 27, which approves the Regulation of
development of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, alleged by the party
claimed by being repealed by this LOPDGDD, and being applicable in this
case, articles 6 and 7 of the GDPR.

On the illegitimate use by the minor of social networks and
breach of parental obligations, it should be noted that, in the present
procedure is not assessing the degree of compliance of social networks
(WhatsApp or Instagram), in the parental control of the same. In this procedure
the degree of legality that has occurred in the treatment of the data has been assessed
of the girl, a minor, by the defendant.

Regarding the scope of the psychological or moral damage suffered by the minor

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

On this point, just indicate that this Agency is not competent to assess
the degree of psychological or moral damage suffered by the people they have treated
your personal data without your consent.

On the practice of proposed tests:

It is considered that the information and documentation provided to the procedure is sufficient
cient to be able to elucidate whether or not there is an infringement of the current regulations on
of data protection and this has been demonstrated throughout this proposal for
resolution, based on Judgment No. XX/02020 of the Juvenile Court (...).- Ex-
Reform request number XXX/2020 (Prosecutor's Office number XXX/2020), in the "Facts
Proven", in its "Fundamentals of Law" and in the "Failure" issued. This is so because-
that this administrative sanctioning procedure is initiated after having carried out
The AEPD has carried out intense previous work, which substitutes sufficient evidence for this instruction.
tion.
In this case, the information provided by the parties is assumed to be true. No
However, the foregoing, the already mentioned so many times, Article 24.2 of the EC, applicable
Also in this case, it recognizes the right of the claimed entity “to use all
the pertinent means of proof for his defense", leaving at his discretion to be able to present
take as many means of proof as it deems pertinent throughout the procedure.
Therefore, the testimonial evidence requested by the claimed party is considered to be
are not necessary in this case, in application of the principle of "procedural economy" to the
the attributable facts must already be sufficiently accredited, and, therefore, it must be re-
reject the request for the practice of evidence as unnecessary at this time, by
under the provisions of article 77.3 of the LPACAP.

Violation for the illegal treatment of the personal data of the minor.

III.-

In this case, according to the information and documentation presented in the
claim, the defendant, browsing the Instagram application, met the minor
of age (Claimant's daughter) aged 13 engaging in such a close relationship with her
confidence that the minor sent her videos and photos of an intimate nature, both by
the Instagram application as by WhatsApp.

After some time, the defendant demanded that the girl continue sending him photos and
videos, but since she refused, the defendant intimidated her by telling her that he would upload the
photos and videos that he already had on social networks, in the face of whose threats, the minor
shipment (…).

As we have explained in the previous section, for data processing
personal information can be carried out lawfully, they must be treated with the
consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established in accordance
a Law, (Recital 40 GDPR)

For its part, article 6.1 of the GDPR establishes that processing will only be lawful if
meets at least one of the following conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his data
personal for one or more specific purposes;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the
interested party or for the application at the request of this of measures
pre-contractual;

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation
applicable to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or
of another physical person.

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the person responsible
of the treatment;

f) the processing is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the data controller or by a third party, provided that
such interests are not overridden by the interests or the rights and freedoms
of the interested party that require the protection of personal data,
in particular when the interested party is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the
first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment carried out by the
authorities in the exercise of their functions.

But, what's more, since the interested party is a minor, as is the case in our case,
We must bear in mind the provisions of art. 7 LOPDGDD:

"1. The processing of personal data of a minor only
may be based on your consent when you are over fourteen years of age. HE
Except for those cases in which the law requires the attendance of the holders of the
parental authority or guardianship for the celebration of the legal act or business in which
context the consent for the treatment is obtained.

2. The treatment of the data of minors under fourteen years of age, based on the
consent, it will only be lawful if that of the holder of parental authority or
guardianship, with the scope determined by the holders of parental authority or
guardianship." The minors whose data has been processed by the defendant are
perfectly identifiable and that their identity can be determined, directly or
indirectly.

Therefore, according to the available evidence, it is considered that
the facts exposed do not comply with the provisions of articles 6.1 of the GDPR, by
unlawful processing of the personal data of the minor girl.

It is considered appropriate to apply the following aggravating criteria established by the
Article 83.2 of the GDPR:

a).- The scope or purpose of the data processing operation and the level of
the damages and losses caused, since it has been confirmed through
final court ruling that the defendant required the girl to follow him
sending photos and videos, but since she refused, the defendant intimidated her

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

telling him that he would upload the photos and videos that he already had to social networks and that
the minor, fearful of her threats, sent (...) to the
reclaimed. (section a).

b).- The intent of the offense, by the defendant, by intimidating
to the girl telling her that she would upload the photos and videos that she already had to the networks
achieving with it (...) of the girl. (section b).

It is also considered that the following aggravating criteria should be applied, which
Article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD establishes:

a).- The affectation of the rights of minors, since the victim is a girl
minor at the time of the facts (section f).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the present case, it is worth considering what is stipulated in the
Article 83.1 of the GDPR which establishes that: "Each control authority
ensure that the imposition of administrative fines under this
article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and
6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive”.

Therefore, taking into account the principle of proportionality and the individualization of the
sanction chosen in such a way that it represents an adequate response to illegality
of the fact and the guilt of the author, in the present case, it is considered reasonable
attend to what was stated by the defendant when he alleges that, in court, the
processing of personal data of the minor girl had ceased to exist
for having deleted the videos from his mobile.

Pursuant to the foregoing, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection,

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE D.A.A.A., a penalty of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros) for
the violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR, regarding the illegal processing of the
images of the girl, minor.

SECOND: ORDER D. A.A.A., the elimination of any personal data from the
girl that is in their power, as well as inform this Agency about the measures
adopted for it.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to D. A.A.A.

FOURTH: Warn the penalized party that the sanction imposed must be made effective by
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, within the voluntary payment period indicated in the
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account No. ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in
executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reversal before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
within a month from the day following notification of this
resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of
contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, within the period of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to what
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the firm resolution may be temporarily suspended in administrative proceedings if
The interested party declares his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

