1/11

 Procedure No.: PS/00144/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), dated December 18,
2019, filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the CITY COUNCIL OF ***CITY COUNCIL.1 with CIF
P3502000G (hereinafter the claimed one).

The reasons on which he bases his claim are, in short: that he filed a
demand for claim of amount against the claimed and indicates that, a
worker of this, has sent the sentence to several workers through WhatsApp
of the aforementioned judicial procedure in which your personal data is recorded. I know
Provides screen printing of the mobile terminal with a WhatsApp message on the
which is informed of the distribution of the sentence.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the claim was transferred on February 18, 2020.
information to the claimant, so that he could proceed with his analysis and inform this Agency in
within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The request for information was delivered on February 24, 2020, without

that a reply was received.

THIRD: On August 6, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to formally admit the claim submitted for processing
by the claimant, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts
of the claim, having knowledge of the following extremes:

- Notified to the respondent, dated September 11, 2020, request for
information on the facts claimed and the legitimacy of access to this type of
documents by the person who sent the WhatsApp message with the document
sentence, after four months this Agency has not received a letter of
allegations forwarded by the respondent.

- This request is reiterated, with a notification date of January 25, 2021, no

Respondent's response has been received.

FIFTH: On April 16, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD, Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: The initiation agreement was electronically notified to the respondent. so demands it
Article 14.2 of Law 39/2015 on Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public Administrations (LPACAP) according to which "In any case they will be obliged to
interact through electronic means with the Public Administrations for the
carrying out any procedure of an administrative procedure, at least, the following
following subjects: a) Legal persons”.

Works in the file the Certificate issued by the Notification Service
Electronic and Authorized Electronic Address of the FNMT-RCM, which records
the sending of the initiation agreement, notification of the AEPD addressed to the claimed, through
through that means being the date of availability in the electronic headquarters of the
agency on April 16, 2021 and the automatic rejection date on April 27,
2021.

 SEVENTH: In accordance with article 73.1 of the LPCAP, the term to formulate
allegations to the Home Agreement is ten days computed from the day following the
of the notification.

       Article 64.2. LPACAP, indicates that the defendant will be informed of the right to
formulate allegations, the "right to be heard in the procedure and the deadlines
for its exercise, as well as the indication that in case of not making allegations in
the term established on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered
proposed resolution proposal when it contains a precise pronouncement about
the imputed responsibility”. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

       The agreement to initiate the sanctioning file that concerns us contained a pro-
precise statement on the responsibility of the claimed entity: in the aforementioned
agreement specified what was infringing conduct, the sanctioning type in which it was
subsumable, the circumstances of the responsibility described and the sanction that in the judgment
of the AEPD proceeded to impose.
  
 In consideration of the foregoing and in accordance with the provisions of article
     
Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the initiation agreement of PS/00106/2021 is considered Pro-
Resolution: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of the
This resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

        

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

FACTS

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

FIRST: Mr. A.A.A., public employee on leave of absence from the CITY COUNCIL OF
***CITY COUNCIL.1 submitted a claim for the amount to that City Council.

SECOND: Sentence issued on the matter, a City Council worker en-
He saw the sentence through WhatsApp to several workers. In the Judgment there are
personal data of the claimant.

THIRD: It is accompanied by an image of a screen of a mobile phone in which a
person indicates to the respondent that they have received the aforementioned Judgment.

FOURTH: The requested City Council has not responded to the information requirements
information sent by the Data Inspection of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data relating to this claim, despite having received the electronic notification
requesting information on dates January 24 and September 11, 2020, and
January 2021. The initiation agreement notified in the same way as the requirements
information, and yet it was expired.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Directorate
tora of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation 2016/679 (EU) of
data protection (hereinafter RGPD) recognizes each control authority, and se-
According to what is established in articles 47 and 48.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Data Protection and Guarantees of digital rights (LOPDGDD),
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve
see this procedure.

II

The facts claimed are specified in a worker of the claimed sent to
through the social network WhatsApp to several workers of the consistory the sentence of the
judicial proceeding instituted by the claimant against the respondent in which the
your personal data.

The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that must preside over the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them those of "integrity and
confidentiality”. The provision provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

"1. The personal data will be:
 (…)
  f) Treated in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing,
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational (<<integrity and confidentiality>>)”.

Article 5.2. RGPD establishes: “The data controller will be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1 and capable of
demonstrate it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of confidentiality
referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

III

The documentation in the file, and which has not been distorted by
the claimed, proves that the claimed, violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles
related to treatment, in relation to article 5 of the LOPGDD, duty of confi-
confidentiality, by allowing the personal data of the claimant contained
in a judicial sentence were published, through the WhatsApp social network, by a
worker of the consistory referring to other workers violating the duty of
confidentiality.

This duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, must be understood
It should be noted that its purpose is to prevent leaks of the data not being carried out.
felt by their owners.

 
Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not
only to the person in charge and in charge of the treatment but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

IV

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
costs for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article.
Article 83 of the aforementioned RGPD, "with administrative fines of €20,000,000 maximum

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global annual total business lumen of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount”.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72 indicates:

“Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
entail a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular,
ticular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”

v

The principle of integrity established in article 5.1.f) RGPD is developed through
through articles 32 to 34 RGPD, framed in section II of chapter IV that
It bears the heading “Security of personal data”. Article 32, “Security of the
treatment," he says:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the na-
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of proba-
variable liability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the
responsible and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which in its case
include, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-
permanent silence of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to personal data
promptly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment
I lie.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
torized to such data.

3. (…)
4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee
warrant that any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge
do and have access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

Union or of the Member States. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

SAW

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
greater amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: “Consti-
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 are infractions
of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
this organic law”.

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as “Infringements considered

serious cracks”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following
following:

(…)
g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance
to what is required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
(…)”

7th

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as “all
all those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or illicit ration of personal data transmitted, conserved or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

From the documentation in the file, it is verified that the defendant,
through an employee of your organization, has violated article 32 of the RGPD, by
a security incident occurs in your system allowing access to third parties
personal data of another public employee, when displayed through the social network
social WhatsApp when a worker referred other workers of the consistory sent
court order requested by the claimant against the consistory allowing access to
your personal data with violation of technical measures and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

organizational.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned provision does not establish a list of
the security measures that are applicable according to the data that is
object of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
will apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk that
treatment entails, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of applying
cation, the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of
probability and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate.
to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the technical and
Organizational activities must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures
you give.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the security level, parti-
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
authorized to said data and that could cause physical, material and
them or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the processing from violating the
established in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the
risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption.
These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including confidentiality.
taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application with respect to
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data to be protected. To the
assess the risk in relation to data security, should be taken into account
the risks arising from the processing of personal data, such as the destruction
accidental or unlawful loss, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data, conservation
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such
data, susceptible in particular to cause physical, material or
immaterial”.

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the insurance bankruptcy.
evidenced by the claimant, since he is responsible for making decisions
tions aimed at effectively implementing the technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the
confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing access to the
in the event of a physical or technical incident. However, the entity has not only in-
fulfilled this obligation, but also transfers the claim so that it informs
to this Agency about the incidence produced and communicate about the decision adopted
in this regard, he ignored not answering anything.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

In accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the respondent is responsible
ble of the infraction of the RGPD: the violation of article 32, infraction typified in its
article 83.4.a).

Regarding the statute of limitations for this infraction, we will have to be at the
provisions of the (LOPDGDD). Article 73, f) LOPDGDD qualifies as a serious infringement
“The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that are appropriate
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of treatment in the
terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. Article 73
LOPDGDD provides that serious infractions will have a statute of limitations of
two years.

Article 83.7 of the RGPD affects the following:

viii

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to sanction with a fine those
public entities, as indicated in article 77 of the LOPDDGG, which establishes
ce the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will apply to the treatment of

who are responsible or in charge:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions
tions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or de-
pending from the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous communities, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When the persons in charge or persons in charge listed in section 1
had any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will issue resolutions
tion sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish
as the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct the effects

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/11

cough of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
gain of which it depends hierarchically, in his case, and to those affected who had the
Interested party status, if any.

3. Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding section, the protection authority
tion of data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when
there are sufficient indications for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to
apply will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning system.
dor that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.
gives.

4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority.
tions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the
previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
tions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
ferred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infringement
tion.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In the present case, it has been proven that the aforementioned conduct constitutes
asserts, on the part of the defendant, the infringement of the provisions of article 5.1.f) and 32.1
of the GDPR.

Likewise, the measures to be adopted will be established to stop the
conduct, correct the effects of the infraction that had been committed and its ade-
compliance with the requirements contemplated in articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, as well as
as the provision of means accrediting compliance with what is required.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/11

FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF ***CITY COUNCIL.1 with CIF
P3502000G, for a violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with the ar-
article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF ***CITY COUNCIL.1 with CIF
P3502000G, for an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, in accordance with article
Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD, a penalty of warning.

THIRD: In accordance with article 58.2. d) of the RGPD, the controller is ordered
ble of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions
of this Regulation, and must inform this AEPD of its execution within the period
of one month.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF ***CITY COUNCIL-
LYING.1.

FIFTH
 
with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-131120

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

