The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen

Bremerhaven, 05/23/2019

PRESS RELEASE
 A steep thesis for the first birthday of the GDPR: data protection awareness

in the state of Bremen has doubled since May 2018

The European General Data Protection Regulation is already one year after its first day of application
"GDPR" on everyone's lips. Very few abbreviations can assert themselves so rapidly. Since
Weeks later, the Bremen State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information will
Conclusion asked and should assess whether the level of data protection in the State of Bremen through the GDPR
increased.

dr Imke Sommer replies: "It is difficult to measure the level of data protection. In the ten
years in which I observe the status of informational self-determination in the state of Bremen,
There have been three events that have led to the awareness of the people
for this topic has increased abruptly in each case. These events are certainly also related to this
contributed to an increase in the level of data protection. It is the publication of
Street views of all Bremen houses
in November 2010 to the revelations
Edward Snowden on surveillance by the US National Security Agency
June 2013 and around the first day of application of the European General Data Protection Regulation on
May 25, 2018. To be more precise, they are the ones with the terms Streetview, GDPR and the name
Edward Snowden-related public discussions that are increasing data protection awareness
allowed. In the summer of 2010, there was an argument in the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen about whether it was stuffy
or it is legitimate to exclude the world from the virtual view of one's own front yard. In summer
In 2013, the public in Bremen also became concerned about the comprehensive and
Unprovoked surveillance of smartphones and Internet communication by a US American
national secret service. In the summer of 2018, the state of Bremen also discussed bell signs,
coerced consent, unwanted advertising and threats of fines. These public
Discussions caused everyone to think about what information unknown to their
information about them may and may not have. Each of these discussions caused an increase
awareness of the vulnerability of the right to decide for yourself who does what and when
knows about people."

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information • Arndtstraße 1 • 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Fax: 0421 - 496 - 18495 • e-mail address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

The state commissioner for data protection points out that in the course of the publication of
House fronts also felt people who had previously thought they had nothing to hide
developed that there are rooms that they do not want to be visible from all over the world. similar
One year after the revelations by Edward Snowden, 80% of the representative
correctly assigned and supported his name by the German citizens surveyed
82% his revelations. The changes in connection with the GDPR are also quantifiable
rateable: One year after the first day of application of the GDPR, the number of monthly
complaints about data protection violations received by the Bremen state commissioner
doubled
https://www.datenschutz.bremen.de/de-
tail.php?gsid=bremen236.c.15665.de).

to the registration form:

(here

link

the

The state representative: "The doubling of the complaints is certainly not an indication that
after May 25, 2018 so many more data breaches have happened in the state of Bremen than in
the time before. On the contrary, even the supervisory practice confirms the impression that many who
process personal data, reluctantly, enthusiastically or simply because it had to be,
have implemented the GDPR. However, the doubling shows very clearly that those affected
have become more sensitive. Perhaps the discussion about the GDPR even encouraged them to engage with
to report their complaint to the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information.
A sociologist would shy away from attributing the doubling of the number of complaints to the increase in
to convert data protection awareness. On the other hand, on the first birthday of the GDPR as
Speak to a lobbyist for fundamental rights. Therefore, I congratulate the GDPR with the steep thesis that
data protection awareness in the state of Bremen has doubled since the first day of application."

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

