 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

TO: Charnwood Borough Council  

OF: Southfields Road, Loughborough, LE11 2TU 

 

 

 

 

1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
reprimand to Charnwood Borough Council (the Council) in accordance 
with Article 58(2)(b) of the UK General Data Protection Regulation in 
respect of certain infringements of the UK GDPR. 
 
The reprimand 
 
1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to the Council in 
respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

• 

Article 5 (1)(f) of the UK GDPR which states that personal data 
shall be: “processed in a manner that ensures appropriate 
security of the personal data, including protection against 
unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, 
destruction or damage using appropriate technical or 
organisational measures (integrity and confidentiality).” 

 
The lack of a clear written process for address changes for staff to follow, 
and the fact that an alert was not put on the file which would have 
indicated the necessity to be extra vigilant when completing 
correspondence duties, is evidence that the Council had not done all that 
may be expected of an organisation that routinely deals with vulnerable 
service users. 
 
In conclusion, the Council failed to ensure the integrity and confidentiality 
of the personal data it held for the data subject. Therefore, the Council 
has allegedly infringed Article 5 (1)(f) of the UK GDPR. 
 
1.3 The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
The Council is a public authority that routinely deals with members of the 
public, many of whom will be vulnerable. It would, therefore, be expected 
that the Council is particularly vigilant when dealing with correspondence 
that relates to vulnerable service users. 
 
The incident occurred when the Council disclosed the new address of the 
data subject to her ex-partner. The Council was already aware of 

 

1 

allegations of domestic abuse made against the ex-partner by the data 
subject when she called to inform the Council of a move to a new 
address.  
 
A member of staff added the data subject’s new address to the notes on 
the system rather than updating the address field, and there was no 
evidence that the data subject was informed that she would have to 
update her 
 application herself by logging into it online. 
As such, the data subject believed her new address details to have been 
successfully updated. 
 
As this was not the case, the Council sent a letter to her previous address 
that she shared with her ex-partner, advising of the need to update her 
 address. This letter contained her new address and 
was subsequently confirmed to have been opened and read by her ex-
partner.  
 
Due to the previous allegations of domestic abuse, the disclosure of her 
new address has caused significant distress to the data subject and has 
the potential to result in harm to the data subject. 
 
In this case, the incident occurred as the process for changing her 
address was not made clear to the data subject, and through the use of 
her old address for correspondence, when the member of staff failed to 
manually transfer the correct address. The system did not have a relevant 
alert function in place to indicate the necessity for staff to be extra 
vigilant when dealing with vulnerable service users.  
 
Furthermore, there was an absence of a written and well communicated 
process for dealing with correspondence in these circumstances for staff 
to use. In addition, the Council had not ensured that all members of staff, 
involved in this incident had received data protection training in the 
twelve months prior to the incident. 
 
It is considered that this incident could have been avoided had there been 
a robust written process that staff were fully aware of, recent data 
protection training provided, and an appropriate alert system in place to 
highlight matters where extra vigilance and checking procedures would be 
required to ensure the protection of vulnerable service users. 
 
Mitigating factors 
 
1.4 In the course of our investigation we have noted that there are no 
mitigating factors in this case. 
 
Remedial steps taken by Charnwood Borough Council  
 

 

2 

1.5 The Commissioner has considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by the Council in the light of this incident.  
 
Remedial measures taken in the immediate aftermath of the incident were 
swift and appropriate. The remedial measures that are planned and set 
out in an Action Plan created by the Council should ensure that a similar 
incident is much less likely to occur in future.  
 
The examples given of actions noted as completed at the time of this 
reprimand includes guidance to staff regarding the importance of ensuring 
data is managed securely and the consequences of breaches, and the 
incorporation of data protection as a standard item in team meetings and 
staff one-to-one meetings. 
 
The Council should ensure that all other intended remedial measures are 
fully implemented. These include a letter creation feature with automatic 
correspondence address population, the addition of a relevant alert 
system, and a review of letter templates to ensure these reiterate the 
requirement for customers to update online applications following a 
change in address. 
 
When the measures stated by the Council are completed, they should 
help ensure that a reoccurrence of an incident of this nature is less likely 
to happen in the future. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
1.6 Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to the Council in relation to the alleged infringements 
of Article 5 (1)(f) of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
1.7 The Commissioner recommends that the Council should take certain 
steps to ensure its compliance with UK GDPR.  
 
1. 

In order to ensure compliance with Article 5 (1)(f) the Council should 
ensure that all remedial measures stated in its response to ICO 
enquiries and in the Action Plan are fully implemented as soon as 
possible. 
 
In particular, and in order to support compliance with Article 5 (1)(f), 
the Council should provide regular refresher training for staff to 
ensure staff knowledge of the need to be vigilant when processing 
the personal data of vulnerable service users. 
 

3 

2. 

 

In order to ensure compliance with Article 5 (1)(f), the Council 
should ensure that all staff who may deal with vulnerable service 
users are provided with robust guidance and training on the correct 
handling of personal data.  

3. 

 
 
 

 

4 

