1/15

Procedure No.: PS/00342/2018

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Dated 05/19/2018, you have entered this Agency (AEPD) in writing from A.A.A.
(hereinafter the claimant) reporting that the gym MKS SANTURTZI 16 SL, WITH
CIF: B-95866364, with address at calle las Viñas Nº16, bajo, in SANTURTZI, VIZCAYA, (in
forward the claimed) has video surveillance cameras installed and denounces a possible
infringement of the RGPD, motivated by the inadequacy of the information poster of the system
video surveillance of the gym. Indicates that the sign is in the reception area, but only
The literal “area monitored by cameras” appears.

Provide a photograph of the poster, located in a reception area, in the lower corner

right, containing only the literal "video surveillance area".

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced, in accordance with the evidence of
that is available, the Data Inspection of this AEPD initiated the investigation actions
following:

1) On 06/26/2018, the inspection service sent a letter to the claimant
with the verbatim:

“This Agency has received a communication in which it is shown
the existence of a video surveillance installation of its ownership, which presents some
deficiencies in compliance with the requirements set forth in the regulations for the protection of
data, which can be consulted on the website www.aepd.es, through the section
Areas of action (video surveillance).

So that the Agency can assess the actions carried out by you
for the adequacy of the system to the aforementioned requirements, I require that, within the maximum period
of one month from receipt of this notification, send to this Agency
detailed documentation that can prove that the aforementioned installation is in accordance with the
data protection regulations and that, in particular, is duly marked and has been
limited the capturing of images of adjoining land and houses or of any other
foreign space, providing recent graphic documents duly dated.

In view of all the documentation provided, the Agency may carry out the
actions that are appropriate, in application of the powers of investigation and
corrective measures established in article 57 of the RGPD. “

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

The shipment made by the telematic notification system notific@ was refused (no

accessed within ten days)

2) On 07/05/2018, the request is reiterated, this time delivered by post

On 08/03/2018, the respondent indicates that they have the system contracted with SECURITAS
DIRECT and states that it provides a copy of the contract although what it provides are two copies of the
“Data processing agreement” with SECURITAS DIRECT of 07/19/2018. Declares that:
“The camera we have does not record to the outside and is only activated if the camera is triggered.
alarm by collecting only images from our entrance without collecting those from the outside”. Does not make
reference nor does it provide any point about the informative poster, nor does it provide a photograph of
when the alarm is triggered to see the visual field it covers and assess whether it collects space
own or excessive public space, or where the camera is placed.

In the "data processing agreement" it is stated that the claimed party has contracted
security services provided by SECURITAS DIRECT, if you indicate the service that is
about.

The contract indicates that the purpose of the agreement is to regulate the relative aspects
to data protection between SECURITAS DIRECT (SC) and the client, differentiating different
scenarios based on:

a) If SC does not access and/or manage images or recordings of the security system
of the client, with the prohibition for the personnel of SC of access to the data when being
responsibility of the client, being this the person in charge of the treatment.

b) In the event that SC accesses or manages images or recordings of the
customer security- Depending on the different modalities that can provide
SC, the status of responsible and responsible would vary. So:

b.1-“Treatment and images by CS obtained on the occasion of a jump from
alarm”, SC would proceed to verify it by video, being the only
purpose of verifying the reality to communicate to the police service
corresponding, “holding SC necessarily the position of
responsible for the treatment”, without the treatment carried out
through the alarm receiving center is considered intrusion
illegitimate

b.2- Service outside of what is the verification of alarm jumps as
activity of photo request made by the client, is assumed by the
client, being responsible for the treatment of the video surveillance file
generated and in this case SC assumes the position of manager of
treatment limited to storage and making available to the
means for the client to access the images obtained by the
security system

3/15

Obligations for SC include:

- that the video verification process can only
begin when the alarm signal has been viewed by a
operator of the alarm center, so SC will not access the
images obtained unless the alarm signal occurs, or when
the client expressly authorizes said visualization.

-Locate informative signs that contain the warning legend of
video-monitored area and express mention of the person in charge before whom they can
exercise rights.

-The client will have at the disposal of the interested parties printed in which

the information provided for in article 14 of the RGPD is detailed.

-In exceptions to the application of data protection regulations,
section 3 indicates that the treatment of images and/or sound that
can be done through security systems with connection to
alarm center in a home or equivalent space, although not
generate obligations for the client in terms of data protection
generation of a file that can contain data information of
personal character would inexorably cause SC to be responsible for the
same.

A second page of the document "data processing agreement"
refers to the security measures to be applied by the person in charge of
treatment.

On 08/28/2018, the Inspection service sends the claimant the following

3)
written:

“In relation to the brief sent in response to the request for information
carried out by this Agency, you are informed that there are certain aspects that are necessary
clarify.

For this reason, within ten business days from the notification of this
application, you must complement the documentation initially sent by providing the
Next information:

- Photographs of the sign indicating the video-monitored area in which it is possible to see
both its location and the data recorded therein.

- Copy of the informative form available to the interested parties in which they are provided with the
information from the video surveillance system.

- Photographs and details of the installed cameras, indicating their exact location and sample
of the images they record.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

On 09/26/2018, a document from the respondent has been entered indicating "In
in relation to the letter sent by you in which you again requested information
about the security cameras, and after speaking with you, I inform you
again from the location of the cameras: The cameras only take pictures and
trigger if someone walks through the front door when the alarm is armed, this
it can only happen when the gym is closed, in no case does it capture images of the
outside of the center, since the cameras only focus on the lobby.”

It has not provided photographs of the space in which the cameras and the contract are located
with SECURITAS DIRECT does not certify that the service provided is exclusively for
alarm center.

THIRD: According to the available data, it has been confirmed that in the
establishment of the claimed figure at least one, camera, without stating the poster
information of the video surveillance system with all the requirements, and without the claimed
certify that you only have one camera installed and that it works exclusively when
close the installation and the photo you can capture when it is shot is of your establishment or
minimum part of public road if necessary. On 01/23/2019 it was agreed by the
director of the AEPD the initiation of a sanctioning procedure against MKS SANTURTZI 16 SL
for the infringement of article 12 of the RGPD, in relation to 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of
8/11, of the AEPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD indicating as sanction
proposal of warning

FOURTH: The shipment was made through the "notifica" platform, part of the Service of
Electronic Notifications (SNE) and Authorized Electronic Address, (DEH) in accordance with
Order PRE/878/2010 and Royal Decree 769/2017, of 07/28 for the Support service of the
Electronic Notification Service and Authorized Electronic Address, including a
certificate which means that:

-“Through said service the notification was sent:
Reference: 59990475c4adccfe48a0
Acting Administration: Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD)
Holder: - B95866364
Subject: "WRITTEN"
with the following result:
Availability date: 01/25/2019 10:54:24
Automatic rejection date: 02/05/2019 00:00:00
Automatic rejection generally occurs after ten days have elapsed.
from its availability for access according to paragraph 2, article 43, of
Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (LPCAP). And in a particular way, after the term established by the Administration
acting in accordance with the specific legal regulations that apply.”

The LPCAP adds in its article 14 "

electronically with the Public Administrations “

 Right and obligation to interact

2. In any case, they will be obliged to interact through electronic means with the
Public Administrations to carry out any process of a procedure
administrative, at least the following subjects:

5/15

a) Legal persons.”

And it is specified in article 41 "General conditions for the practice of
notifications “1. Notifications will preferably be made by electronic means
and, in any case, when the interested party is obliged to receive them by this means.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrations may make notifications by

non-electronic means in the following cases:

a) When the notification is made on the occasion of the spontaneous appearance of the
interested party or his representative at the registration assistance offices and request
communication or personal notification at that time.

b) When, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the administrative action, it is necessary
practice notification by direct delivery of a public employee of the Administration
notifier.

Regardless of the means used, notifications will be valid as long as
allow to have proof of its sending or making available, of the reception or access by
the interested party or his representative, their dates and times, the full content, and the
reliable identity of the sender and recipient thereof. The accreditation of the
notification made will be incorporated into the file.”

As a consequence, the notification of the agreement is understood to have been produced with all the

legal effects.

Although the initial agreement indicated that "if within the stipulated period it does not carry out
allegations to this initial agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution, as established in article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP).”, it is considered appropriate to submit this proposal to adjust the treatment to
the proceeding.

FIFTH: The Instructor issues a resolution proposal with the literal: That by the director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency declared that MKS SANTURTZI 16 SL, has
infringed article 12 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD, imposing
a sanction of warning, in accordance with article 58.2. b of the RGPD, and must
rectify the described infraction.

Faced with said proposal, the respondent indicates: "... a letter is received from the respondent
in which it indicates “after receiving your notification … where you request us again
information regarding the complaint”, although what he sent was the resolution proposal,
states:

1) The only cameras that exist are those of the alarm system contracted with
DIRECT SECURITIES They only take pictures in case the alarm is triggered and
detect the presence of intruders inside the premises. The photographs he takes are towards
inside the premises. There are only two cameras placed at the two entrances, one at
each access. They send a copy of photos of the two entrances looking at the cameras of
detection inside focusing on the inside, a sign outside the company
of security of alarm system in which it indicates notification to police.

2) They have withdrawn the poster whose only objective was its dissuasive character.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3) Provide a copy of the “service installation” contract with SECURITAS DIRECT. In the
same figure a sketch of the placement of two chambers, gym entrance and
consultation and a gym mg of 04/27/2012. In the general conditions of
service it is indicated that the object of the contract is the installation, maintenance and
operation of alarm center. The services that are contracted are those of the article
5.1 of the private security law 23/1992 of 07/30, specifically those of letter e) and
f), and the service of letter g) is excluded. It is specified that the contract includes
the installation and maintenance service, the connection service to central
alarm receiver when it jumps to alarm. In section 5 of obligations of
SC figure the f that points. “In your case, the activation of the services linked to the
video surveillance system or elements will occur through any element
detection installed to the client, SC will process the technical alarm signal and
will record the images and/or sounds received in local mode, as established
in the applicable private security and data protection regulations.” Between the
obligations of the client appears in point g: "will facilitate the placement and
visible maintenance of the deterrents delivered by SC for the
provision of the service”.

There is a privacy policy section in point 14, point C Treatment of
images and sounds obtained through the security system when the equipment
incorporate photo detection systems, assuming:

A) When verifying an alarm jump by SC. It is indicated that SC through the
CRA will capture and record images through installed security devices
in the places object of protection of the client, in accordance with article 48 of the
private security regulation, that is, verifying with all the means at your disposal
reach the received alarms and once said verification has been exhausted, if
proceeding, will transmit said images and/or sounds obtained on the occasion of the jump
of alarm treated to the police authority. “The client can only have access to the
information about any incident or the recording made on the occasion of a
alarm jump, sending written request”.

B) In customer obligations regarding image capture devices
and sounds for video surveillance purposes, it is indicated in point D that “of the treatment
of images and/or sounds indicated in point 14.C- can be derived
responsibility and obligations towards the client as data controller
in accordance with the provisions of the LOPD. The following obligations should be listed
regarding data protection:
Locate informative signs that suit the informative legend LOPD, zone
video surveillance and express mention of the identification of the person in charge before whom
can exercise rights. The client will have at the disposal of the interested parties
forms in which the information of article 5.1 of the LOPD is detailed.

PROVEN FACTS

7/15

 

1) On 05/19/2018, it is claimed that the MKS SANTURTZI 16 SL gym has
video surveillance cameras installed and an informative poster on data protection that does not
conforms to current regulations, since according to the photo it provides, it is in an area of
reception with the only notice "area monitored by cameras".
   It is not proven that the defendant has a video surveillance system but rather a
electronic intrusion detection system connected to an alarm receiving center,
contracted with SC, with remote access to the image in case of triggering the alarm. The system is
connects when the gym closes and its purpose is the security of the facilities.
The respondent indicates before the initiation agreement, that it has a system contracted with
SECURITAS DIRECT and provides a copy of the "data processing agreement" in the contract with
SC contains the section "data processing agreement" in which the claimed contracted
security services provided by SECURITAS DIRECT, and it is stated that its purpose is
regulate aspects related to data protection between SECURITAS DIRECT (SC) and the
client, differentiating different scenarios, contemplating the case that SC accesses or
manage images or recordings of the client's security system - in which SC
would proceed to verify it by video, the sole purpose being to verify the
reality to communicate to the corresponding police service, "holding SC necessarily
the position of data controller”, without the treatment carried out through
the alarm receiving center is considered illegitimate interference. It is also indicated that
are obligations for SC:

- that the video verification process can only
begin when the alarm signal has been viewed by a
operator of the alarm center, so SC will not access the
images obtained unless the alarm signal occurs, or when
the client expressly authorizes said visualization.

-Locate informative signs that contain the warning legend of
video-monitored area and express mention of the person in charge before whom they can
exercise rights.

-The client will have at the disposal of the interested parties printed in which

the information provided for in article 14 of the RGPD is detailed.

A second page of the document "data processing agreement"
refers to the security measures to be applied by the person in charge of
treatment.

Before the start agreement, the defendant did not provide accreditation of the specific system
installed, the cameras it had, where they were oriented and in what space
they were placed.

2) In allegations of the proposal, the respondent provides an installation sheet for two cameras
by SC, and general conditions of contract for photo detection system of entry and
alarm reception center (ARC). The respondent states that the two chambers only
capture images and are triggered if someone walks through the front door when the alarm

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

is connected, which is when the center is closed, adding that in no case does it capture
images of the exterior of the center, since the cameras only focus on the hall.

3) In allegations to the proposal, it is proven that the claimed one has two chambers that
apparently they are not video surveillance, but photo detection, and are located in the
interior of two entrances to the premises of the defendant, one of them the gym that was
object of the claim where the poster was located. The system is only triggered, when
detects someone inside the space that focuses or where the cameras point
lower.

4) The respondent states that they have withdrawn the poster whose sole objective was their
deterrent character.

5)
In the copy of the “service installation” contract with SECURITAS DIRECT that
contributed by the claimed in allegations to the proposal there is a sketch of the placement of
two chambers, gym entrance and consultation and a gym mg of 04/27/2012. In the
general conditions of the service it is indicated that the object of the contract is the installation,
maintenance and operation of central alarm. The contracted services are
of article 5.1 of the private security law 23/1992 of 07/30, specifically those of the
letter e) and f), and the service of letter g) is excluded. It is specified that the contract
includes the installation and maintenance service, the connection service to central
alarm receiver when it jumps to alarm. In section 5 of SC obligations
figure the f that points. “In your case, the activation of the services linked to the system or
video surveillance elements will occur through any detection element
installed to the client. SC will process the technical alarm signal and will record the images and/or
sounds received in local mode, as established in the security regulations
privacy and applicable data protection.”

When verifying an alarm jump by SC. It is indicated that SC through the
CRA will capture and record images through security devices installed in the
places subject to customer protection, in accordance with article 48 of the regulation
of private security, that is, verifying with all the means at its disposal the alarms
received and once said verification has been exhausted, if appropriate, it will transmit said
images and/or sounds obtained on the occasion of the jump of alarm treated to the authority
police. “The client may only have access to information on any incident or
to the recording made on the occasion of an alarm jump, sending a written request”.

6) The respondent has contributed in allegations to the proposal photographs of the space
where the cameras are located inside and focusing towards the interior of two entrances, one
of them coincides with that of the claim.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

9/15

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 on the protection of people
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these
data (hereinafter GDPR); recognizes each control authority, and as established
in art. 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the director of the AEPD is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

According to the available data, it has been recorded that in the gym
of the claimed one there is a video detection device that at a given moment is
capable of capturing images containing personal data, that is, according to the
GDPR definition, article 4.1: “any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person whose
identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of a
identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of physical identity,
physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

In the case of video detection when someone breaks into the installation, although
images are captured permanently, if there is a possibility that if accessed,
take images that identify or make identifiable the person, on which they have to
apply the legal guarantees of the RGPD, security measures, information or exercise of
rights, purpose, etc.

In accordance with Instruction 1/2006, of 8/11, of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data, on the processing of personal data for surveillance purposes through
camera or video camera systems, article 1, states:

"1. This Instruction applies to the processing of personal data from images of
identified or identifiable natural persons, for surveillance purposes through surveillance systems
cameras and camcorders.

The treatment object of this Instruction includes the recording, capturing, transmission,
conservation, and storage of images, including their reproduction or broadcast in time
real, as well as the treatment that results from the personal data related to them.
A person is considered identifiable when his identity can be determined
through the treatments referred to in this Instruction, without this requiring
disproportionate deadlines or activities.

The references contained in this Instruction to video cameras and cameras will be understood
also made to any analogous technical means and, in general, to any system that
allow the treatments provided for in it.”

As long as they meet the rest of the requirements, they could collect personal data.
personnel, in addition to the classic closed-circuit television camera systems, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

use of any fixed or mobile electronic system or element if it is capable of capturing data from
images, for example, portable cameras, webcams, or infrared cameras.

III

Law 5/2014, of 4/04 on Private Security indicates:

Article 5. Private security activities
"1. The following constitute private security activities:
f) The installation and maintenance of devices, equipment, devices and systems of
security connected to alarm reception centers or control centers or
video surveillance.

g) The operation of exchanges for the connection, reception, verification and, where appropriate,
response and transmission of alarm signals, as well as monitoring of
any signs of auxiliary devices for the safety of people, property
movable or immovable or compliance with imposed measures, and communication to the
Competent Security Forces and Bodies in these cases.”
Article 32. Security guards and their specialty

"1. The security guards will perform the following functions:
f) Carry out, in relation to the operation of alarm receiving centers, the
provision of personal verification services and response to alarm signals that
Occur.

In addition, they may also perform the functions of reception, non-personal verification and
transmission to the Security Forces and Bodies that article 47.1 recognizes to the
security operators.”
Article 42. Video surveillance services.

"1. Video surveillance services consist of the exercise of surveillance through
camera or video camera systems, fixed or mobile, capable of capturing and recording images
and sounds, including any technical means or system that allows the same treatments
what are you.

When the purpose of these services is to prevent infractions and avoid damage to the
persons or goods object of protection or prevent unauthorized access, will be provided
necessarily by security guards or, where appropriate, by rural guards.

The use of cameras or
video cameras whose main purpose is to check the status of installations or
goods, the control of access to car parks and garages, or the activities carried out
developed from the control centers and other points, zones or areas of the highways of
Toll. These functions may be performed by personnel other than private security personnel.

2. Cameras or video cameras may not be used for private security purposes to
take images and sounds of roads and public spaces or public access except in the
assumptions and in the terms and conditions provided for in its specific regulations, prior
administrative authorization by the competent body in each case. Its use in
interior of the homes will require the consent of the owner.

3. Video surveillance cameras that are part of mandatory security measures

11/15

or reception systems, verification and, where appropriate, response and transmission of alarms,
they will not require administrative authorization for their installation, employment or use.

4. The recordings made by video surveillance systems may not be used for
use other than its intended use. When they are related to
criminal acts or acts that affect citizen security, will be provided, on their own initiative
or at your request, to the competent Security Forces and Bodies, respecting the
criteria of conservation and custody of the same for their valid contribution as
evidence or proof in police or judicial investigations.

5. The monitoring, recording, processing and recording of images and sounds by
video surveillance systems will be subject to the provisions of the regulations on
protection of personal data, and especially to the principles of
proportionality, suitability and minimal intervention.

6. In matters not provided for in this law and in its implementing regulations, the provisions
provided in the regulations on video surveillance by the Forces and Bodies of
Security."

Article 46. Installation and maintenance services

"1. Installation and maintenance services for apparatus, equipment, devices and
security systems connected to alarm receiving centers, control centers or
of video surveillance, will consist of the execution, by accredited technicians, of all those
installation and maintenance operations of such devices, equipment, devices or
systems, which are necessary for its proper functioning and proper compliance
of its purpose, prior preparation, by accredited engineers, of the mandatory project of
installation, whose characteristics will be determined by regulation.

2. These systems must undergo preventive reviews with the frequency and form

to be determined by regulation."

Article 47. Alarm management services

"1. The alarm management services, in charge of security operators, will consist of
in the reception, non-personal verification and, where appropriate, transmission of the signals of
alarm, related to the security and protection of people and goods to the Forces and Bodies
competent security.

2. The alarm response services will be provided by security guards or, in

your case, by rural guards, and may include the following services:

a) The deposit and custody of the keys of the buildings or objects where they are installed
the security systems connected to the alarm center and, where appropriate, their transfer
to the place from which the verified alarm signal originates or the remote opening
controlled from the alarm center.

b) The movement of security guards or rural guards in order to proceed to

personal verification of the received alarm.

c) Facilitate access to police or emergency services when circumstances
require it, either through remote openings controlled from the alarm center or
with the means and access devices available.

3. When the services refer to the analysis and monitoring of security events

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

of information and communications, will be subject to the specifications that
regulations are determined. The warning signals related to these events
must be brought, when appropriate, to the attention of the competent body, by the
user himself or by the company with which he has contracted the security.”

 Order INT/316/2011, dated 02/01, on the operation of alarm systems in

the field of private security indicates:

Article 1. Material scope.

"1. Only authorized security companies may carry out security operations.
installation and maintenance of security and alarm devices, devices or systems,
when they intend to connect to an alarm center or the so-called centers
control or video surveillance that includes the first paragraph of article 39 of the
Private Security Regulation.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 46 of the Security Regulations
Private, to connect appliances, devices or security systems to central
alarms or control centers, it will be necessary that the installation has been carried out by a
security company registered in the corresponding Registry and conforms to the provisions of
Articles 40, 42 and 43 of the aforementioned Regulation and the provisions of this Order.
Article 8. Video verification.

"1. To consider an alarm validly verified by this technical method, the
video subsystem must be activated by means of an intrusion detector or a video
sensor, being necessary that the video coverage is equal to or greater than that of the detector or
associated detectors.

2. The video verification process can only start when the video signal is
alarm has been viewed by the operator of the alarm center. Started the
verification, the system must record a minimum of one image of the exact moment of the
alarm and two images after it, in a time window of five seconds, of
form that allows to identify the cause that has originated this.

3. The recording systems used for this type of verification will not allow
obtain images of the supervised place, if an alarm has not previously occurred,
unless there is express authorization from the user or the rule requires a recording
permanent."

IV

 The service provided by security companies and its implications in terms of
data protection, in this case for the installation and/or maintenance of the equipment and
intrusion detection systems with the use of equipment or access to images.
These are security companies that provide combined central alarm services
and video surveillance so that when the alarm is activated, the
images by security company personnel.

13/15

The RGPD defines “in charge of the treatment” or “in charge” as the natural person
or legal entity, authority, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the
responsible for the treatment. And "responsible for the treatment" or "responsible" is the person
physical or legal entity, authority, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines
the purposes and means of the treatment. In the present case, the personal data obtained by
the security company by signing the contract of the information provided by the
user are not processed “on behalf of” the user, but said personal data is used to
establish a direct legal relationship between the security company and the user. The
security company uses personal data for the establishment and fulfillment of
the provision to which it is obliged by means of the aforementioned service lease contract.
Ultimately, the security company determines the purposes and means of data processing.
said personal data for the provision of the service to which it is obliged.

In the fulfillment of the provision to which the company undertakes
security through the service lease contract does not act “on behalf of”
user, but rather provides the promised security service, which constitutes the object
security company's own social security." We are not, therefore, regarding
said personal data, before a person in charge of the treatment. This means that the company
of security will have all the obligations of the person in charge of the treatment in
relation to the personal data that it deals with for the provision of the security service to the
users of this. Among them, that personal data is processed only for
the specific, explicit, illegitimate purposes for which they were collected (art. 5.1.b) RGPD), and
not for purposes incompatible with them, and to inform through the poster of the zone of
video surveillance, without the use of the exterior sign because it does not refer to personal data.

v

Article 12.1 of the RGPD states: “The data controller will take the
appropriate measures to provide the interested party with all the information indicated in articles 13 and
14” The RGPD lists the categories of information that must be provided to a data subject
in relation to the processing of your personal data in the cases in which they are collected
of the same (article 13) or obtained from another source (article 14).

12.7 indicates: "The information that must be provided to the interested parties by virtue of
Articles 13 and 14 may be transmitted in combination with standardized icons that
allow to provide in an easily visible, intelligible and clearly legible form a
adequate overview of the planned treatment”.

So that not all the information is contained in the data processing notice of the
informative video surveillance poster, can be done in layers. The design and layout
of the first layer of the privacy statement or notice must be such that the interested party
have a clear view of the information available on the processing of your data
where and how you can find such detailed information within the layers
of the privacy statement or notice. It is recommended that the first layer or modality
inserted in the video surveillance area warning icon contains the most detailed information
important, the details of the purpose of the treatment, the identity of the person in charge and a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

description of the rights of the interested party, legal basis of the treatment and identification of the
responsible for the treatment and contact form. The importance of providing this
information in advance arises, in particular, from recital 39 of the RGPD, not being
necessary to specify the precise location of the surveillance equipment; however, you must
make the context of surveillance clear.

Second layer information should be readily available in one place
accessible to the interested party, be it an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc. or placed
in a visible public space, or refer to a web address with the rest of the elements
of article 13 of the RGPD.

In this sense, it is accredited that the aforementioned poster does not appear at the entrance of the gym,

regardless of the fact that images are only taken when it is closed.

In this sense, one of the requirements that the processing of images must meet
through a video surveillance system or photo detection in this case, to be in accordance
with current regulations is to inform, in accordance with article 12 of the RGPD in
accordance with article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of 8/11 of the AEPD, on the
processing of personal data for surveillance purposes through camera systems or
camcorders, BOE 12/12/2006, which specifies:

Those responsible who have video surveillance systems must comply with
the duty of information provided for in article 5 of Organic Law 15/1999, of 12/13. to such
purpose, they must:

a) Place, in video-monitored areas, at least one informative sign located in a place

sufficiently visible, both in open and closed spaces and

b) Have at the disposal of the interested parties printed in which the

information provided for in article 5.1 of Organic Law 15/1999.

The content and design of the informative badge will comply with the provisions of the Annex

of this Instruction.”

 According to the data in the file, it has been confirmed that
in the establishment of the claimed one there are at least two chambers capable of
shooting and capturing an image of a person, without the system's informative poster appearing
with all the requirements. Being the system implemented in terms of character data
personnel, responsible for the treatment, the security company would be in charge of
implement the interior sign with the warnings of the video-monitored areas, so
that the defendant bears no responsibility in this regard.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each control authority will have

of all the following corrective powers indicated below:

  “…d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a specified manner and within a specified time.

In this sense, it is considered appropriate to notify said entity of the obligation.

15/15

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE, in accordance with the provisions of article 90.1 of the LPCAP
the non-existence of infringement by MKS SANTURTZI 16 SL, of the infringement of article 12
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to MKS SANTURTZI 16 SL.

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned LPCAP. You will also need to transfer
the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the notification
of this resolution, would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

