 
 

Enforcement Notice issued by the Information 
Commissioner concerning contraventions  
of Article 5(2) and Article 35 UK GDPR  
by the Home Office 

  

 
ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 
 HOME OFFICE 

28 February 2024 
 

Enforcement Notice 
 

 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 

ENFORCEMENT POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER  

 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 

 

 

To: The Secretary of State for the Home Department. 

 

Of: The Home Office, Peel Building, 2 Marsham Street, London, SW1P 4DF. 

PART I:  INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY 

 

1. 

The Home Office is a “controller” as variously defined in sections 

3(6), 5 and 6 of the Data Protection Act 2018 (“DPA”) and Article 

4(7) of the UK General Data Protection Regulation (“UK GDPR”).  

2. 

Unless otherwise stated, references to “Articles” are to articles of 

UK GDPR, and “Sections” to sections of the DPA.  

3. 

The Home Office processes personal data  for the purposes of its 

management of immigration, including individuals entering or 

leaving the UK, securing the border, leave, settlement, citizenship 

or other immigration services, claiming asylum or other forms of 

protection. The Home Office also processes personal data as part 

of its functions to enforce immigration laws, law enforcement for 

criminal matters and other lawful matters including those related 

to public health. The Home Office is the controller for this 

information, including when the information is collected or 

processed by third parties on its behalf.  

 

 

 
2 

Enforcement Notice 
 
4. 

The Information Commissioner (the “Commissioner”) hereby 

issues the Home Office with an Enforcement Notice (“EN”) under 

section 149 DPA, in the terms set out in this EN. This EN relates 

to contraventions by the Home Office of Articles 35 and 5(2) UK 

GDPR in relation to its processing of personal data for its satellite 

tracking services GPS expansion pilot (the “pilot”).  

5. 

This pilot extended the Home Office’s use of electronic tagging as 

an immigration bail condition to a new cohort: data subjects who 

arrive in the UK via unnecessary and dangerous routes who have 

claims suitable for consideration under the detained asylum 

casework (DAC) process.  

The infringements  

6. 

The Commissioner has found that the Home Office has infringed 

Articles 35 and 5(2) UK GDPR (the “infringements”) as follows:  

Article 35: The Home Office failed to carry out a DPIA in 

relation to the pilot which satisfies the requirements of 

Article 35.   

In summary, the DPIA (Draft DPIA V2.3) did not set out 

either at all, or in sufficient detail:   

•  A systematic description of the envisaged processing 

operations and the purposes of the processing. The 

DPIA did not set out each processing operation, and 

the stated purposes are inconsistent and unclear.   

•  An assessment of the necessity and proportionality of 

the processing operations in relation to those 

purposes.  

 

 
3 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  Continuous monitoring using GPS tracking by an 

electronic tag is intrusive. The Home Office did not 

demonstrate that less privacy intrusive methods could 

not meet its objectives.   

•  An objective assessment of the risks to the rights and 

freedoms of data subjects, and the measures 

envisaged to address those risks. Whilst some risks to 

the rights and freedoms of data subjects were 

identified, Draft DPIA V2.3 (including the section 7.2 

risk table) failed to sufficiently assess all of the risks, 

and as a result did not sufficiently propose measures 

to address those risks.  

Article 5(2): The Home Office, in breach of the accountability 

principle, has failed to demonstrate its compliance with 

Article 5(1), in particular:  

•  Article 5(1)(a) principle of lawfulness: the Home Office 

identified the lawful basis for the processing as Article 

6(1)(e), and for special category data as Article 

9(2)(g) and schedule 1 paragraph 6 DPA. However, the 

Home Office did not demonstrate that the processing 

was necessary and proportionate for these purposes. 

This was not demonstrated in its DPIA or its guidance 

for Home Office staff.  The Home Office failed to 

demonstrate why less privacy-intrusive methods could 

not meet its objectives.   

•  Article 5(1)(a) principle of fairness and transparency: 

the Home Office’s privacy notice(s) do not demonstrate 

compliance with minimum transparency requirements, 

as set out at Articles 12 and 13.  

 

 
4 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  Article 5(1)(c) principle of data minimisation: the 

Home Office’s Draft DPIA V2.3 and guidance for Home 

Office staff does not demonstrate that data 

minimisation will be considered and actioned when 

requesting access to the personal data produced by 

the electronic tags (the “trail data”).  

7. 

Annex 1 of this EN sets out the actions that the Commissioner 

requires the Home Office to take to correct the infringements.  

8. 

The findings set out in this EN and the requirements set out in 

Annex 1 relate to the assessments and documentation the Home 

Office has shared with the Commissioner which underpin the 

pilot. The Commissioner expresses no view in this EN as to 

whether processing of personal data by the Home Office in 

relation to the pilot is otherwise compliant with data protection 

legislation more generally.  

 

PART II:  LEGAL FRAMEWORK  

9. 

Section 149(1) DPA provides that, if the Commissioner is satisfied 

that a person has failed, or is failing, as described in section 

149(2) DPA, the Commissioner may, by written notice (an 

“enforcement notice”), require that person to take steps or refrain 

from taking steps specified in the enforcement notice.  

10.  The types of failure described in section 149(2) DPA include 

“where a controller or processor has failed, or is failing, to comply 

with …”: 

•  at section 149(2)(a) “a provision of Chapter II of the 

UK GDPR … (principles of processing)”; and  

 

 
5 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  at section 149(2)(c) “a provision of articles 25 to 39 of 

the UK GDPR … (obligations of controllers and 

processors)”.  

11.  Section 150 DPA provides that: 

“(1) An enforcement notice must -  

(a) “state what the person has failed or is failing to do”, and  

(b) “give the Commissioner’s reasons for reaching that opinion.  

12.  Chapter II of the UK GDPR sets out the principles which 

controllers must comply with, and requirements which apply when 

controllers are processing special categories of data and criminal 

records data.  

13.  Article 5(2) UK GDPR sets out the principle of accountability and 

requires that controllers must “be able to demonstrate compliance 

with” Article 5(1) UK GDPR.   

14.  Article 5(1) sets out the other principles relating to processing of 

personal data which are: lawfulness, fairness and transparency; 

purpose limitation; data minimisation; accuracy; storage 

limitation; and integrity and confidentiality.  

15.  Articles 24 to 39 UK GDPR set out general obligations which 

controllers and processors must comply with when processing 

personal data.   

16.  Article 35(1) UK GDPR requires controllers, prior to the 

processing, to carry out an assessment of the impact of the 

envisaged processing operations on the protection of personal 

data where those processing operations are likely to result in a 

high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.   

 

 
6 

Enforcement Notice 
 
17.  Other relevant provisions of the UK GDPR and DPA are set out 

below in the specific paragraphs dealing with the infringements by 

the Home Office (Part IV: The Commissioner’s findings of 

infringement).   

18.  The legal framework for issuing an enforcement notice is set out 

in Part V: Decision to issue this EN.  

Home Office powers  

19.  The Home Office’s powers to grant immigration bail are governed 

by schedule 10 of the Immigration Act 2016. The Home Office has 

published guidance on immigration bail1. Immigration bail may be 

granted by the Home Office where a person is detained or is liable 

to be detained under specified statutory provisions2.   

20.  Schedule 10 paragraph 2(1) Immigration Act 2016 requires that if 

immigration bail is granted to a person, it must be granted 

subject to one or more of the following conditions –   

•  a condition requiring the person to appear before the 

Secretary of State or, the First Tier Tribunal at a 

specified time and place;   

•  a condition restricting the person’s work, occupation or 

studies in the United Kingdom;  

•  a condition about the person’s residence;   

 

1 Immigration Bail Version 16.0 dated 8 August 2023  
2 Namely: (a) paragraph 16(1), (1A) or (2) of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971  
(detention of persons liable to examination or removal); (b) paragraph 2(1), (2) or (3) of Schedule 3 to that Act 
(detention pending deportation); (c) section 62 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 
(detention of persons liable to examination or removal); and (d) section 36(1) of the UK Borders Act 2007 
(detention pending deportation).  

 

 
7 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  a condition requiring the person to report to the 

Secretary of State or such other person that may be 

specified;   

•  an electronic monitoring condition; or  

•  such other conditions as the person granting 

immigration bail sees fit.   

21.  Schedule 10 paragraph 4(1) Immigration Act 2016 confirms that 

electronic monitoring condition “means a condition requiring the 

person on whom it is imposed (“P”) to co-operate with such 

arrangements as the Secretary of State may specify for detecting 

and recording by electronic means one or more of the following— 

(a) P’s location at specified times, during specified periods of 

time or while the arrangements are in place; 

(b) P’s presence in a location at specified times, during specified 

periods of time or while the arrangements are in place; 

(c) P’s absence from a location at specified times, during 

specified periods of time or while the arrangements are in place” 

  

PART III:  THE BACKGROUND  

22.  This section sets out the relevant facts of the infringements that 

are the subject of this EN.    

The pilot and its scope  

23.  On 15 June 2022 the Home Office commenced the pilot to run 

initially for 12 months, and later extended this period by a further 

six months. The pilot extended the Home Office’s use of electronic 

monitoring as an immigration bail condition to a new cohort: 

 

 
8 

Enforcement Notice 
 

individuals who arrive in the UK via unnecessary and dangerous 

routes who have claims suitable for consideration under the 

detained asylum casework (DAC) process. The pilot size was set 

at up to 600 individuals to be subject to electronic monitoring and 

600 further individuals to form the control group.  

24.  The high-level purpose of the pilot is described as:  

“… test whether electronic monitoring (EM) is an effective 

means by which to improve and maintain regular contact 

with asylum claimants who arrive in the UK via unnecessary 

and dangerous routes and more effectively progress their 

claims towards conclusion.”3  

25. 

Initially the pilot also covered asylum seekers who arrived in the 

UK via unnecessary and dangerous routes and were considered 

inadmissible, but this cohort ceased as a result of a successful 

legal challenge.  

26.  Pilot participants were monitored for breach of immigration bail 

conditions by the Home Office’s processor in the same way as the 

existing process for electronic monitoring as an immigration bail 

condition.  

27.  The pilot ended in December 2023, and so did the collection of 

personal data using electronic monitoring devices for the pilot. 

However, processing of personal data gathered or created during 

the course of the pilot will continue until such time as all pilot 

personal data has been deleted or anonymised. This EN relates to 

the extent that the Home Office has failed and is failing to deal 

3 Set out in Draft DPIA V2.3 and Pilot Guidance.  

 

 

 
9 

Enforcement Notice 
 

with this personal data in accordance with the requirements of the 

UK GDPR. 

The DPIAs and other Home Office documents  

28.  The Commissioner has reviewed the following DPIAs provided by 

the Home Office:  

Title   

Document Date  

GPS Expansion (small Boats) final version 0.1  

26.01.22  

Satellite Tracking Services (STS) GPS expansion 
version 0.2  

STS GPS expansion Version 2.0  

Satellite Tracking Services (STS) Version 2.2  

30/05/2022 
(ODPO review 
complete)  

12.12.22  

(draft) with separate risk table 7.2 (“Draft DPIA  

07.08.23  

V2.2”)  

Satellite Tracking Services (STS) Version 2.3  

(draft) with separate risk table 7.2 (“Draft DPIA  

13.10.23  

V2.3”)  

29.  The Home Office published guidance: “Immigration Bail 

Conditions: Electronic monitoring (EM) expansion pilot” version 1. 

This was updated and published as version 2 on 23 June 2023 

(the “Pilot Guidance”).  This document states that it must be read 

in conjunction with the Immigration Bail Guidance (the 

“Immigration Bail Guidance”). The most recent version of this 

document is Version 16.0 published on 8 August 2023.   

30.  This Pilot Guidance sets out the process for Home Office staff 

when considering electronic monitoring as a condition of 

immigration bail for persons who fall within the scope of the pilot.  

31. 

In terms of privacy information, the Home Office provided the 

STS Bespoke Privacy Information Notice to the Commissioner on 

 

 

10 

Enforcement Notice 
 

30 January 2023 and the STS Privacy Information Notice GPS 

Expansion Pilot Cases on 21 August 2023. An updated version of 

the STS Privacy Information Notice GPS Expansion Pilot Cases 

was provided to the Commissioner on 13 October 2023 (the “STS 

PIN”).  

32.  The Home Office provided copies of the Home Office EM Internal 

Data Request Form (the “Data Access Request Form") and the 

data access request guidance (the "Data Access Guidance") to the 

Commissioner on 6 January 2023. The Home Office provided the 

Process Control Document Process Data Requests v0.8SM and the 

Process data requests v0.10 to the Commissioner on 1 September 

2023 (“the Process to Access Information”). These documents set 

out the process for Home Office staff to follow when accessing the 

trail data collected by the electronic tags.  

33. 

In addition, the Home Office provided the Commissioner with an 

Appropriate Policy Document v3.0, GPS Expansion ROPA v2, and 

a document entitled General observations and recommendations 

outside pilot scope, on 21 August 2023. A “DPIA and Recs gap 

analysis document” was sent on 22 August 2023. A Glossary of 

Terms for DPIA 2 and a GPS Data Flow Map were provided to the 

Commissioner on 1 September 2023.  

34.  The Home Office did not refer to or provide any additional 

documents in its formal representations made following the PEN. 

The purpose of the pilot  

35.  From paragraph 2 of the Draft DPIA V2.3 the purpose of the pilot 

is as follows:   

“This pilot will examine the impact of EM [electronic 

monitoring] on compliance with immigration bail and the 

 

 

11 

Enforcement Notice 
 

asylum process. At the end of the pilot, recommendations 

will be made regarding the efficacy or not of using EM as a 

condition of bail for those awaiting an asylum decision 

and/or following a negative decision.  

The intended outcomes are as follows:  

- 

 The pilot is set up to tag a number of individuals who 

have arrived in the UK via unnecessary and dangerous 

routes and fail to have their claims considered under the 

detained asylum casework processes or are potentially 

inadmissible. The pilot is a mechanism for gathering the 

evidence to inform a future decision on wider roll out of 

GPS tagging, supported by the underpinning policy 

rationale of:    

• 

Increasing levels of compliance and improved and 

regular contact management, whilst reducing the 

risks of absconding;    

•  Establishing whether tagging is an effective 

alternative to detention.  

Data will be used to test whether electronic monitoring (EM) 

is an effective means by which to improve and maintain 

regular contact with asylum claimants who arrive in the UK 

via unnecessary and dangerous routes and more effectively 

progress their claims toward conclusion.”  

36. 

In Paragraph 3 of Draft DPIA V2.3, there is similar wording but 

with additional details. In particular, in addition to the policy 

rationale above, it also includes: 

 

 

12 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  “Ensuring that the data subjects are in regular 

contact with the Home Office throughout their 

application process. 

•  The Home Office has a duty to prevent asylum 

seekers absconding without appropriate leave to 

remain. 

•  Detention is the only current option that prevents 

absconding”. 

It goes on to state that “there is a potential benefit that it may 

assist in disrupting criminal networks – eg people traffickers”. 

Finally in this section, the Home Office states that “The hypothesis 

[for the pilot] is that tagging individuals will reduce the rate of 

absconding”.  

37.  The Pilot Guidance confirms this and sets out additional purposes 

(page 6):  

“…establishing whether electronic monitoring is an effective 

way to improve and maintain regular contact management 

with asylum claimants who arrive in the UK via unnecessary 

and dangerous routes, in order to progress their immigration 

case. We will also be able to test the rate of absconding and 

obtain data on how frequently this happens as well as 

developing a greater understanding of the stages in the 

process it is likely to occur and establish if electronic 

monitoring and associated improvements in contact 

management prevent absconding.  

If anyone does abscond and therefore breaches their 

conditions of bail, we will also be able to test whether we are 

able to use this knowledge to more effectively re-establish 

 

 

13 

Enforcement Notice 
 

contact with individuals or locate them for removal or 

detention if appropriate in their case. Trail data will be held 

by the EM supplier but may be accessed by the Home Office 

where one or more of the following applies and where 

proportionate and justified in the circumstances in 

accordance with data protection law:  

•  a breach of immigration bail conditions has occurred, 

or intelligence suggests a breach has occurred to 

consider what action should be taken in response to a 

breach up to and including prosecution  

•  where a breach of immigration bail conditions has 

occurred, which has resulted in the severing of contact 

via EM, trail data will be used to try to locate the 

person  

•  where it may be relevant to a claim by the individual 

under Article 8 ECHR  

• 

to be shared with law enforcement agencies where 

they make a legitimate and specific request for access 

to that data.”  

38.  The first two bullets above set out reasons why trail data will be 

accessed which form part of the operation of the pilot 

(“Operational Purposes”). The second two bullets are reasons why 

trail data may be accessed which do not form part of the 

operation of the pilot (“Non-Operational Purposes”).  

 

 

14 

Enforcement Notice 
 
The pilot personal data 

39.  The personal data which will be processed for the pilot (the “pilot 

personal data”) is set out in paragraph 2.1 of the Draft DPIA V2.3. 

The main description is:   

“Bail Form Information (The Bail 206) will include 

individuals Name, DOB, Nationality, Photograph, 

offending history and any vulnerabilities (for example 

health data) identified that the third party supplier may 

need to be aware of. This information is used to assess 

suitability for inclusion in the pilot and if selected is the 

identification information that links individuals to the 

tagging device.  

“Electronic Monitoring Device.  

Where individuals have an EM immigration bail condition 

imposed, the device (a fitted ankle tag) will send a 

notification where the conditions are breached using the 

GPS location information and time information recorded. 

The GPS equipment worn by individuals being 

monitored, transmits data events to the central servers. 

The data collected comprises latitudinal and longitudinal 

location data only. Movements around home address or 

other domestic addresses are not tracked. The device 

itself does not retain data. 

“Alerts received by the system are processed by EMS 

staff who will review the data, determine whether there 

is anything that amounts to a breach of the conditions 

and notify those breach events to the Home Office where 

appropriate.” 

 

 

15 

Enforcement Notice 
 
40. 

In addition, the Draft DPIA V2.3 sets out that there will be a 

control group of individuals, who will meet the criteria but will not 

be electronically monitored. The Draft DPIA V2.3 sets out that the 

control group is: 

“...made up of individuals who met the condition for tagging 

as part of DAC or MEDP [Migration and Economic 

Development Partnership] but who are not tagged either 

following individualised assessment or as a consequence of a 

variety of other factors eg timing, tribunal activity etc which 

have no bearing on likelihood of absconding and therefore 

act as a legitimate comparator.”  

The DPIA sets out that no new data will be generated for this 

control group but rather the Home Office will rely on data which is 

already held on the Home Office systems as part of business as 

usual processes.  

The pilot data subjects 

41.  The data subjects are the individuals who fall within the scope of 

the pilot, plus those in the control group.   

ICO engagement with the Home Office  

42.  The ICO has been engaging with the Home Office since 11 August 

2022. The Commissioner’s understanding of the Home Office’s 

processing, and his findings in this EN, are based on the 

information he has received over the course of his engagement 

with the Home Office.  

43.  During this engagement, the Commissioner raised concerns with 

the Home Office about the legality of processing of personal data 

captured by the GPS tags. The Commissioner raised concerns that 

 

 

16 

Enforcement Notice 
 

continuous monitoring of individuals using GPS tracking by an 

electronic tag is intrusive. These concerns related to the GPS 

tracking data which the device collects, both in terms of the 

volume and the nature of the data collected and the way the 

electronic tag is fitted and worn. The Commissioner identified 

concerns that the data protection impact assessment (DPIA) and 

privacy notice(s) provided by the Home Office did not meet UK 

GDPR requirements. The Commissioner also highlighted the 

importance of the Pilot Guidance and improvements which could 

be made.   

44.  On 6 July 2023, the Commissioner issued a report to the Home 

Office (the “Report”), setting out the Commissioner’s concerns 

and recommendations for action needed to correct breaches of UK 

GDPR.  

45.  On 21 August 2023 the Home Office responded with:   

•  an Appropriate Policy Document regarding the Home 

Office’s use of special category data;  

•  GPS Expansion ROPA v2;  

•  STS Privacy Information Notice (PIN) GPS Expansion 

Pilot Cases; the Draft DPIA V2.2 with a separate DPIA 

risk section 7.2; 

•  a DPIA and Recs gap analysis (correct version provided 

on 22 August 2023); and  

•  a document setting out General observations and 

recommendations outside the pilot scope.   

 

 

17 

Enforcement Notice 
 
46.  On 1 September 2023, the Home Office provided the 

Commissioner with a Glossary of Terms for DPIA 2, GPS Data Flow 

Map and the Process to Access Information.  

47.  On 28 September 2023, the Commissioner provided the Home 

Office with a draft preliminary enforcement notice. The draft 

preliminary enforcement notice was shared at an early stage to 

allow the opportunity for early action by the Home Office to 

resolve the infringements. By email dated 13 October 2023 the 

Home Office responded with:  

• 

the Draft DPIA V2.3 with an updated separate DPIA risk 

document (7.2(2));  

•  a link to the immigration bail guidance and the Pilot 

Guidance. This was the version published on 23 June 

2023. This had not been updated after the draft 

preliminary enforcement notice;  

•  a copy of the Process to Access Information and Data 

Access Request Form. These documents had not been 

updated after the draft preliminary enforcement notice; 

and  

• 

the STS PIN.   

48. 

In the email of 13 October 2023 the Home Office confirmed that:   

“In reflecting on this draft preliminary enforcement 

notice, although a DPIA was in place prior to processing, 

it is acknowledged that initial interpretation of the 

legislation in this case, that a DPIA was not mandatory, 

resulted in the process and engagement that has since 

 

 

18 

Enforcement Notice 
 

needed to take place. Learning, following engagement 

with the ICO will be taken for the future.”  

 

49.  On 19 December 2023, the Information Commissioner sent to the 

Home Office a Preliminary Enforcement Notice and a Notice of 

Intent to Issue a Warning which set out the Commissioner’s 

provisional findings of infringement. They also set out how the 

Home Office may make both written and/or oral representations 

as to why the Commissioner should not issue an enforcement 

notice and about the Commissioner’s provisional decision to issue 

a warning.   

50.  On 31 January 2024 the Home Office provided written 

representations to the Information Commissioner (the 

“Representations”). The Home Office did not request an oral 

hearing.  

51.  This EN relates to matters to which the Report and PEN were 

directed and takes into account the documents set out in 

paragraphs 28 - 33 above.  

52.  The Commissioner recognises the approach taken by the Home 

Office to address some of the issues of concern raised . Careful 

consideration has been given to all of the relevant material 

provided by the Home Office at all stages of the process.  

53.  This EN relates only to matters which in the view of the 

Commissioner have not yet been addressed and applies to the 

ongoing processing of pilot personal data  

 

 

 

19 

Enforcement Notice 
 

PART IV:  THE COMMISSIONER’S FINDINGS OF INFRINGEMENT  

A. CONTROLLERSHIP AND JURISDICTION  

54.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the Home Office is the 

controller of the pilot personal data , and that UK GDPR applies to 

the Home Office as controller under Article 3(1).  

55.  The Home Office processes personal data for its management of 

immigration, including individuals entering or leaving the UK, 

securing the border, leave, settlement, citizenship or other 

immigration services, claiming asylum or other forms of 

protection. The Home Office also processes personal data as part 

of its functions to enforce immigration laws, law enforcement for 

criminal matters, and other lawful matter including those related 

to public health. The Home Office is the controller for this 

information, including when the information is collected or used 

by third parties on its behalf.  

56.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office has 

committed a number of infringements of the UK GDPR in relation 

to its processing of the pilot personal data. These are addressed 

below. 

B.  INFRINGEMENT OF ARTICLE 35 UK GDPR  

57.  For the reasons set out below, the Commissioner’s assessment is 

that the Home Office has failed and is failing to comply with 

Article 35 UK GDPR in relation to its processing of the pilot 

personal data. 

 

 

20 

Enforcement Notice 
 

Legal Framework – Article 35  

58.  Article 35 UK GDPR requires controllers, prior to processing, to 

carry out a DPIA where processing is likely to result in a high risk 

to the rights and freedoms of individuals.   

59.  A DPIA is a process designed to help controllers systematically 

identify and analyse data protection risks to individuals arising 

from the processing of personal data, and to minimise those risks 

as far as possible.   

60.  Article 35(1) requires that:  

“Where a type of processing in particular using new 

technologies, and taking into account the nature, scope, 

context and purposes of the processing, is likely to result in 

a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, 

the controller shall, prior to the processing, carry out an 

assessment of the impact of the envisaged processing 

operations on the protection of personal data. A single 

assessment may address a set of similar processing 

operations that present similar high risks.”  

61.  Article 35(7) sets out the requirements for this assessment 

(known as a data protection impact assessment or DPIA). 

62.  A controller could breach Article 35(1) in several ways, including 

because: 

• 

• 

it has not carried out a DPIA at all,  

it carried out a DPIA but it does not meet the 

requirements of Article 35(7).  

 

 

21 

Enforcement Notice 
 

• 

it carried out a DPIA which meets the requirements of 

Article 35(7) but not prior to the relevant processing. 

63.  Article 35(3) lists three types of processing that automatically 

require a DPIA. These are:  

(a)  “systematic and extensive evaluation of personal 

aspects relating to natural persons which is based on 

automated processing, including profiling, and on which 

decisions are based that produce legal effects 

concerning the natural person or similarly significantly 

affect the natural person;  

(b)  processing on a large scale of special categories of data 

referred to in Article 9(1), or of personal data relating to 

criminal convictions and offences referred to in Article 

10; or  

(c)  a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on 

a large scale.”  

64.  Article 35(4) requires the Commissioner to “establish and make 

public a list of the kind of processing operations which are subject 

to the requirement for a data protection impact assessment 

pursuant to paragraph 1”.  

65.  Accordingly, as required by Article 35(4) UK GDPR, the 

Commissioner has published a list of ten examples of processing 

“likely to result in high risk”4 (referred to as “ICO DPIA 

Examples”).  

4 Examples of processing ‘likely to result in high risk’ | ICO  

 

 

 

22 

Enforcement Notice 
 
66.  Article 35(7) specifies what is required, at a minimum, to be 

included in a DPIA carried out in compliance with Article 35(1). 

The assessment must contain:  

(a)  “a systematic description of the envisaged processing 

operations and the purposes of the processing, 

including, where applicable, the legitimate interest 

pursued by the controller;  

(b)  an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of 

the processing operations in relation to the purposes;  

(c)  an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of 

data subjects referred to in paragraph 1; and  

(d)  the measures envisaged to address the risks, including 

safeguards, security measures and mechanisms to 

ensure the protection of personal data and to 

demonstrate compliance with this Regulation taking into 

account the rights and legitimate interests of data 

subjects and other persons concerned.”  

The requirement for the Home Office to carry out an Article 35 
DPIA prior to the start of the processing  

67.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office was 

required by Article 35(1) to have carried out a DPIA which met 

the requirements of Article 35(7), prior to the start of the 

processing of the pilot personal data, for the reasons set out 

below.  

68.  First, the processing of personal data for the pilot falls within 

Article 35(3)(a) as it involves:  

 

 

23 

Enforcement Notice 
 

“systematic and extensive evaluation of personal 

aspects relating to natural persons which is based on 

automated processing, including profiling, and on which 

decisions are based that produce legal effects 

concerning the natural person or similarly significantly 

affect the natural person;”  

69. 

ICO guidance sets out when processing is “systematic”:  

“‘systematic’ means that the processing:  

•  occurs according to a system;  

• 

• 

• 

is pre-arranged, organised or methodical;  

takes place as part of a general plan for data collection; or  

is carried out as part of a strategy.”  

70.  The pilot involves systematic processing as the GPS tags will 

systematically collect personal data regarding the location of the 

data subjects at specific times and dates.   

71. 

ICO guidance sets out when processing is “extensive”:  

“The term ‘extensive’ implies that the processing also covers 

a large area, involves a wide range of data or affects a large 

number of individuals.”  

72.  The pilot involves extensive processing because, overall, it 

captures a very large volume of personal data. In particular, the 

processing has the potential to cover trail data sent from a large 

area (GPS tags will collect the trail data of the data subjects), and 

a wide range of data can be inferred from it.  

73.  The pilot involves automated processing as the GPS tags 

automatically collect and send the trail data of the data subjects 

 

 

24 

Enforcement Notice 
 

to the Home Office’s processor. As the ICO guidance states, “the 

processing occurs according to a system.”    

74.  The trail data will be used by Home Office staff to make decisions 

regarding the data subjects which will have legal effects. For 

example, whether the data subject has breached the conditions of 

their immigration bail and what actions the Home Office will take, 

for example whether the data subject should be detained as a 

result.   

75.  Second, the processing of personal data under the pilot falls 

within at least three of the ICO DPIA Examples of processing 

“likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural 

persons”, as set out in the following paragraphs.  

76. 

ICO DPIA Example 2: Denial of service:  

“Decisions about an individual’s access to a product, service, 

opportunity or benefit that is based to any extent on 

automated decision-making (including profiling) or involves 

the processing of special category data.”  

77.  The trail data may include special category data (see paragraphs 

95-101 below). The Home Office staff will be using that data to 

make decisions as to whether a data subject has breached their 

bail conditions and whether that means those conditions need to 

be altered or immigration bail revoked.  

78. 

ICO DPIA Example 3: Large scale processing:  

“any profiling of individuals on a large scale”  

79.  The processing of personal data for the pilot is “large scale 

processing” because a large volume of trail data about the data 

subjects will be collected. It is profiling as the trail data records 

 

 

25 

Enforcement Notice 
 

the location, movements and behaviours of the data subject. For 

the purpose of assessing whether processing operations require a 

DPIA, it is not relevant that the large volume of trail data will only 

be accessed by the Home Office staff in limited circumstances.  

80.  This is very similar to one of the examples in the Commissioner’s 

guidance, namely “tracking individuals using a city’s public 

transport system.”  

81. 

ICO DPIA Example 8: Tracking, when combined with any of the 

criteria from the European guidelines5:  

“processing which involves tracking an individual’s 

geolocation or behaviour.”  

The Home Office processing of trail data involves tracking both 

geolocation and behaviour.   

82.  The relevant criteria within the European guidelines are: 

processing of sensitive data or data of a highly personal nature; 

processing of data on a large scale; and processing personal data 

concerning vulnerable data subjects.  

83.  The pilot is likely to involve sensitive data and data of a highly 

personal nature, including special category data. This is because 

trail data contains a data subject’s time and date of visits to 

particular locations which could reveal this information, such as a 

visit to a specific medical clinic.  

84.  The pilot involves processing of personal data on a large scale due 

to the volume of trail data collected about data subjects. A 

 

5 “Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether processing is “likely to 
result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679” Adopted on 4 April 2017. As last Revised and 
Adopted on 4 October 2017  

 

 

26 

Enforcement Notice 
 

significant number of data subjects are likely to be vulnerable 

(see paragraphs 102-110 below).  

The Home Office’s infringement of Article 35(1) – to carry out a 

DPIA which meets the requirements in Article 35(7) 

85.  The Home Office completed its first DPIA for the pilot on 26 

January 2022, GPS Expansion (small Boats) final version 0.1. 

Version 2.0 was signed off by the ODPO (the office of the data 

protection officer) before the pilot started. The ICO on behalf of 

the Commissioner provided detailed comments on this Version 

2.0, setting out how it needed to be improved to bring it into line 

with Article 35. 

86.  This version of the DPIA has since been updated a number of 

times to form the Draft DPIA V2.3. The Commissioner’s 

assessment is that none of the versions of the DPIA meet the 

requirements of Art 35(7).  

87.  For the purpose of this EN the Commissioner has focused only on 

the deficiencies in the most recent version, being Draft DPIA V2.3.   

88.  An analysis of the four component parts of Article 35(7) is set out 

in turn below, ie Articles 35(7)(a), 35(7)(b), 35(7)(c) and 

35(7)(d).   

89.  Before identifying the infringements in detail, the Commissioner 

makes the following overarching comments in relation to the 

DPIAs provided by the Home Office:  

•  The Commissioner is mindful of the Home Office’s 

statutory obligations to keep citizens safe and the 

country secure through maintaining the integrity of the 

UK’s borders and managing immigration effectively.  

 

 

27 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  The limited level of detail included in the DPIAs was not 

commensurate with the nature, context and scope of 

processing for the pilot, and therefore did not comply 

with the requirements of Article 35(7).   

•  The level of detail required by Article 35(7)(a) is vital for 

the Home Office to: make a proper risk assessment and 

assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the 

processing for its purposes; to be in a position to 

effectively mitigate any risks; and to document 

compliance with Article 5(1).   

•  This assessment should have demonstrated whether 

there were any reasonable alternatives to electronic 

monitoring. This would have allowed the Home Office to 

decide whether the level of intrusiveness of electronic 

monitoring was necessary and proportionate when 

considering those alternatives.  

•  As a result of the breaches of Article 35, the Home Office 

was unable to rely on Draft DPIA V2.3 to demonstrate it 

was processing personal data for the pilot in compliance 

with UK GDPR and was unable to meet the requirements 

of Article 5(2) to be able to demonstrate compliance with 

Article 5(1) (See from paragraph 53 onwards and 

below). 

Assessment of whether Draft DPIA V2.3 meets the requirements 
of Article 35(7)  

90.  Set out below is the Commissioner’s assessment of whether Draft 

DPIA V2.3 meets the requirements of each of Articles 35(7)(a) to 

35(7)(d). His conclusion is that the Home Office has failed to 

produce a DPIA which meets these requirements.  

 

 

28 

Enforcement Notice 
 

Article 35(7)(a): “a systematic description of the envisaged 

processing operations and the purposes of the processing including, 

where applicable, the legitimate interest pursued by the controller”  

91.  The ICO’s DPIA guidance6, following UK GDPR recital 90, states 

that DPIAs must include a description of how and why the 

controller plans to use the personal data, and that this description 

must include the nature, scope, context and purposes of the 

processing.   

92.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office did not 

systematically describe the processing operations it was 

undertaking for the purposes of the pilot in the Draft DPIA V2.3, 

and as a result, the Draft DPIA V2.3 did not sufficiently describe 

the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as set out 

in the following paragraphs.   

  (i)  

The nature of the processing 

93.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office did not 

sufficiently explain in its Draft DPIA V2.3 the nature of the 

processing. In particular, there was insufficient information and/or 

not enough detail of:  

•  The categories of personal data being processed at each 

stage, for each processing operation. In particular, Draft 

DPIA V2.3 lacked clarity about which categories of 

personal data were being processed for each purpose 

that had been listed. 

•  The Data Flow map that the Home Office refers to in 

their Representations was not referenced in the DPIA.  

6 How do we do a DPIA? | ICO  

 

 

 

29 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  The circumstances under which the Home Office staff 

could access the trail data, and the conditions and 

restrictions that must or could be placed upon that 

access (including where the trail data is being provided 

to a third party agency). Section 2.1 of the DPIA lacked 

detail about the conditions and restrictions that must or 

could be placed upon any access (including where the 

trail data is being provided to a third party). In its 

Representations, the Home Office states that this 

information is contained in its “Process Control 

Document” V0.8. However, this document was not 

referenced in Draft DPIA V2.3. 

•  The safeguards in place for the access and ongoing 

retention of trail data to demonstrate that access and 

ongoing retention is necessary, proportionate and 

compatible with the purpose of the processing.  

 

(ii)   The scope of the processing  

94.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office did not 

sufficiently explain in its Draft DPIA V2.3 the scope of the 

processing (ie what the processing covers), including:  

•  details of the volume, frequency and nature of the trail data. It 

does not explain in enough detail the data sent by the 

electronic tags ; 

•  what special category data is processed for the pilot (see 

paragraphs 95-101 below); and  

•  detailed identification of the assessment of whether individuals 

could be vulnerable and their actual and potential vulnerabilities 

and risks. (see paragraphs 102-110 below).  

 

 

30 

Enforcement Notice 
 

Special category data  

95. 

In the Draft DPIA V2.3, section 2.3 sets out that the processing 

included criminal conviction data, race or ethnic origin (including 

nationality) and health. The Home Office stated that this is data it 

was already processing as part of its immigration case file.  

96.  The Draft DPIA V2.3 set out that health data was used in the 

assessment of suitability for electronic monitoring. It also stated 

that nationality is not special category data but that the Home 

Office routinely treats this in the same way as it does race or 

ethnicity to protect the individual to the same level.  

97.  The Draft DPIA V2.3 accepted that trail data could be used to 

determine the precise type of place that the data subject is 

attending but stated that:   

“...this information is not required for the purpose of this trial and 

will not be used to infer anything about their nature or behaviour.”  

98.  The Home Office stated in its Representations that it specifically 

ruled out inferring any special category data from the trail data, 

and does not agree that trail data is “highly likely” to constitute 

special category data. 

99. 

In this situation, personal data in the trail data is special category 

data if, in and of itself, the personal data reveals the special 

category data with a reasonable degree of certainty. 

100.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that there is a likelihood (that 

is more than minimal) that the Home Office will on occasion be 

processing special category data when it processes the trail data 

alongside information about the places the data subject visits. For 

example, a map showing the use of buildings and/or the names 

 

 

31 

Enforcement Notice 
 

and locations of organisations. This likelihood is outside of the 

Home Office’s control as it depends on the data subject’s 

movements.  The trail data when processed alongside that 

information, will, on occasion, in and of itself reveal special 

category data. For example, personal data showing a person 

attending a religious building each week on the day of regular 

worship, in and of itself reveals their religion with enough 

certainty that this is special category data. 

101.  The Home Office processed the trail data alongside this type of 

information when it accessed and used the trail data for its 

Operational Purposes. This may also be the case for its Non-

Operational Purposes. How likely it is that the Home Office will 

process special category data is dependent on the number of data 

subjects whose trail data is accessed, but it is a (more than 

minimal) possibility with every data subject. On that basis, the 

Home Office must consider that using the trail data alongside this 

type of information will be processing special category data.  

Vulnerable data subjects  

102.  In Draft DPIA V2.3 the conclusion is reached that the processing 

will not involve “mostly data concerning vulnerable data subjects.” 

The Draft DPIA V2.3 sets out that “any material vulnerability will 

be considered as part of the assessment prior to tagging. Any 

individuals that may be unduly affected as a consequence of 

electronic monitoring will not be included in the pilot.”  

103.  The Draft DPIA V2.3 does not provide any basis for this conclusion 

that the trail data does not “mostly” concern vulnerable data 

subjects.  

 

 

32 

Enforcement Notice 
 
104.  In its Representations, the Home Office refers to the section in 

the DPIA which screens for potentially vulnerable data subjects, 

and states that the “Immigration Bail conditions documents 

provide guidance in relation to vulnerabilities”. 

105.   The guidance on “Vulnerability consideration” is in the 

“Immigration Bail” guidance on pages 31 to 35. and in the 

“Immigration Bail conditions: Electronic monitoring expansion 

pilot” guidance on pages 13 and 14. The latter guidance also 

refers back to the main Immigration Bail guidance. 

106.  Both contain a non-exhaustive list of conditions/issues/ 

considerations which could mean that a person is not suitable for 

an electronic monitoring condition. The lists are very similar, but 

not identical. In both cases the list sets a high bar for 

vulnerability. For example, both lists require medical evidence 

that an electronic monitoring condition would cause serious harm, 

or evidence that a claim of torture or modern slavery has been 

accepted by the Home Office or a Court. Although neither are 

exhaustive lists, the implication is that other conditions/issues/ 

considerations must be of a similarly serious nature. 

107.  Home Office’s stated purpose is to consider “material 

vulnerability” as part of the decision whether or not to issue an 

electronic monitoring condition. This is not the same as the 

requirement in a DPIA to consider any vulnerability of data 

subjects.  

108.  The ICO Guidance7 sets out how to consider if an individual is 

vulnerable when conducting a DPIA. It says:  

7 When do we need to do a DPIA? | ICO  

 

 

 

33 

Enforcement Notice 
 

“Individuals can be vulnerable where circumstances may 

restrict their ability to freely consent or object to the 

processing of their personal data, or to understand its 

implications.  

“Even if the individuals are not part of a group you might 

automatically consider vulnerable, an imbalance of power in 

their relationship with you can cause vulnerability for data 

protection purposes if they believe that they will be 

disadvantaged if the processing doesn’t go ahead.”  

109.  The Commissioner considers that a detailed assessment of 

vulnerabilities is required as there is a risk that a significant 

number of individuals within the scope of the pilot could be 

vulnerable. This is because of (inter alia) the conditions they have 

come from, the circumstances of their journey, their reception 

and experiences in the UK, their level of English language skills 

and the imbalance of power between the data subjects and the 

Home Office. The Home Office has not provided any 

Representations as to why this might not be the case.    

110.  The Draft DPIA V2.3 does not address the risk of vulnerabilities 

and therefore does not consider whether any mitigating factors 

should be put in place. This means the Draft DPIA V2.3 does not 

consider if there are increased or additional risks to the 

vulnerable, nor how to mitigate those risks.  

 

(iii)   The context of the processing  

111.  The context of the processing involves considering the wider 

picture, including (inter alia) how far individuals are likely to 

expect and understand the processing.   

 

 

34 

Enforcement Notice 
 
112.  The Draft DPIA V2.3 at paragraph 2.7 sets out that individuals will 

be informed of their privacy rights through the privacy notice(s). 

The Home Office in its Representations has referred to the 

Immigration Bail Conditions guidance which states that: 

“It is important that decision makers inform the bailed 

person of their responsibilities regarding electronic 

monitoring and how their data can be used”.  

This may have assisted the understanding of some data subjects. 

But this is not referred to in the Draft DPIA V2.3, so could not 

form part of the “context” for consideration.  

113.  As set out at paragraphs 184-188 below, the Commissioner’s 

assessment is that the Home Office has failed to demonstrate 

compliance with its transparency obligations under Article 5(1)(a) 

and articles 12 and 13.  

114.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that there is a significant risk 

that some data subjects, in particular those who are vulnerable, 

will not understand how their personal data is being processed 

and for what purposes. He understands that for some data 

subjects this risk has been mitigated by Home Office staff 

explaining how their data would be used. This should have been 

noted in the DPIA as part of the context, alongside further detail 

as to how this information must be delivered and recorded. On 

that basis, his assessment is that the context of the processing 

has not been set out in enough detail in Draft DPIA V2.3.  

 

(iv)   The purpose of the processing  

115.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that while the Home Office 

may have set out all of its purposes in processing the personal 

data somewhere in the Draft DPIA V2.3, they are not set out 

 

 

35 

Enforcement Notice 
 

precisely and in sufficient detail in one place, so that the Home 

Office could correctly carry out the assessment of necessity and 

proportionality of the processing operations in relation to the 

purposes (required by Article 35(7)(b)) and an assessment of the 

risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects (required by 

Article 35(7)(c)).  

116.  The purpose is set out in sections 2 and 3 of the Draft DPIA V2.3 

(which are set out in full in paragraph 34, 35 and 36 above). 

Although the lawful basis for processing is set out at sections 3.2, 

3.3 and 3.4 of the DPIA, for clarity, the Commissioner also 

recommends that the Home Office links its purposes to both its 

Article 6(1)(e) public task and its Article 9(2)(g) public interest 

condition.   

Article 35(7)(b): “an assessment of the necessity and proportionality 

of the processing operations in relation to the purposes”  

117.  In accordance with Article 35(7)(b), the DPIAs must contain an 

assessment of the necessity and proportionality of each 

processing operation in relation to the purposes.  

118.  ICO guidance8 explains that, in considering necessity and 

proportionality, controllers should assess:   

• 

if the plans help to achieve their purpose; and   

• 

if there is any other reasonable way to achieve the same 

result.  

119.  The assessment of proportionality and necessity is set out in 

section 3.1 of the Draft DPIA V2.3. For the reasons set out in the 

following paragraphs, the Commissioner’s conclusion is that this 

8 How do we do a DPIA? | ICO  

 

 

 

36 

Enforcement Notice 
 

was not a complete, reasoned analysis of whether each of the 

processing activities in the pilot is necessary and proportionate for 

the purpose. 

120.  The details set out within the Draft DPIA V2.3, and in particular 

section 3.1, were too high level and did not provide a sufficient 

consideration of all the factors involved, nor the underlying 

evidence base.   

121.  There was insufficient consideration of any reasonable 

alternatives, and whether the level of intrusiveness of electronic 

monitoring is proportionate when considering those alternatives. 

The Draft DPIA V2.3 set out that to date, no options other than 

detention have been identified as available to control rates of 

absconding. The Commissioner’s view is that if no other options 

were identified as available to control rates of absconding, then 

the DPIA should have specified the options or alternatives which 

had been considered but discounted and explain why each 

alternative was rejected.   

122.  Section 3.1 of the Draft DPIA V2.3 explains that:  

“When [trail] data is requested, the requester must prove 

the need for the data and that they have considered the 

amount of data that is required. All applications are 

scrutinised by the Service Delivery Team who reject any 

requests where they determine that proportionality and/ or 

necessity are not adequately proven.”  

This sets out how the decision was made to allow access to trail 

data, but it is not a complete, reasoned analysis of the necessity 

and proportionality when access is given to the trail data.  

 

 

37 

Enforcement Notice 
 
123.  The Home Office in its Representations has referred to Section 2.1 

which explains that: 

“Data collected is not accessed unless an exception alert is 

triggered. Authorised Home Office staff may request access 

to GPS trail data for a specified period and review that data 

in the event of [a list of specific occurrences, such as a 

breach of Immigration Bail Conditions]. 

This section sets out circumstances when Home Office staff will 

access trail data for their Operational Purposes. Again, it is not a 

complete, reasoned analysis of the necessity and proportionality 

when access is given to the trail data. 

124.  Section 3.1 of the Draft DPIA V2.3 explains that the pilot is a 

mechanism for gathering evidence to inform a future decision on 

wider roll out of electronic monitoring, supported by the 

underpinning policy rationale of:   

•  Ensuring that the data subjects are in regular contact 

with the Home Office throughout their application 

process.   

•  The Home Office having a duty to prevent asylum 

seekers absconding without appropriate leave to remain.   

•  Detention as the only current option that prevents 

absconding.   

There is no detail setting out an assessment that processing 

personal data for the pilot (including all categories of data) is 

necessary and proportionate for those stated goals. 

125.  Section 3.1 states that data subjects are “effectively randomly 

assigned whether they are provided with a tag or not once their 

 

 

38 

Enforcement Notice 
 

suitability has been assessed based on factors unrelated to the 

likelihood of absconding.” This statement, without further 

explanation as to the rationale for this selection process, does not 

sufficiently explain how choosing the particular pilot participants 

will assist the Home Office in meeting its stated purposes. As a 

result, it fails to set out how the selection of each participant is 

necessary and proportionate for the purpose of the pilot.  

126.  Section 3.1 of the Draft DPIA V2.3 also states that data subjects 

will not be electronically tagged if it would breach “Convention 

Rights” (meaning Human Rights under the Human Rights Act 

1998) or if it is not practical to do so, and that this assessment is 

taken on a case by case basis, with representations invited. There 

is insufficient further detail as to the circumstances in which 

electronic monitoring might breach Convention Rights or be 

deemed not to be practical, and insufficient detail is given as to 

the means by which Home Office staff will identify potential 

Convention Rights interferences. The Commissioner’s views on 

how the Pilot Guidance deals with Convention Rights are 

addressed further at paragraphs 171-174 below.  

127.  The tenth paragraph of section 3.1 of the Draft DPIA V2.3 sets out 

that data subjects will be given a new notice. There is not enough 

detail to demonstrate how data subjects are informed about how 

their data is being processed, particularly taking into account their 

circumstances and potential vulnerabilities. (See paragraphs 184-

188 in relation to the Commissioner’s assessment of the extent to 

which the Updated Privacy Notice(s) comply with UK GDPR). We 

note that Home Office has stated in its Representations that  

 

 

39 

Enforcement Notice 
 

“Whilst privacy notices were available, the primary 

communication method was via direct engagement (given 

the limitations of privacy notices in this context)” 

128.  The Commissioner acknowledges the benefit of this approach, but 

additional details would be needed to explain how this information 

was effectively delivered and documented. This must be recorded 

within the DPIA so this can be taken into account as part of the 

necessity and proportionality test.  

129.  The DPIA should contain an assessment of the necessity and 

proportionality of retaining the data and the safeguards in place 

for access to retained data. This should include justification for 

the retention periods. In light of the volume and sensitivity of the 

trail data collected this should include an assessment of whether 

all the trail data is required to be retained for the stated retention 

periods.  

130.  The Home Office in its Representations explained that: 

“Standard Home Office policy applies (in most cases, this 

will be six years after the closure of the claim). The six 

year retention period was determined over a period of 

years and allows time for judicial reviews, complaints and 

legal reparation. Where information is used as part of a 

criminal investigation the standard law enforcement 

retention times will apply once the data is moved to the 

investigation service.” 

131.  The DPIA should have documented that the Home Office had 

considered whether the standard Home Office policy of a 6 year 

retention period should apply, and the reasons why it was decided 

that it does. The Commissioner agrees that in principle a 6 year 

 

 

40 

Enforcement Notice 
 

retention period may be appropriate, provided Home Office has 

decided that this complies with the principle of data storage 

limitation for these particular types of personal data. The DPIA 

should also have noted that any pilot personal data which is used 

as part of a criminal investigation will then be retained in line with 

the retention periods of the Home Office investigation service.  

132.  Where access to the trail data forms part of the Operational 

Purposes of the pilot, the DPIA must set out whether this 

processing is also necessary and proportionate for the purposes of 

the pilot and is in compliance with UK GDPR generally (such as 

the Article 5(1)(c) principle of data minimisation). This is not in 

Draft DPIA V2.3.  

133.  Where access to the trail data is supplementary to the purposes 

of the pilot (the Non-Operational Purposes), there is no need for a 

detailed necessity and proportionality assessment within the DPIA 

itself as long as this assessment is made as part of the process 

prior to access being granted. There should be detailed guidance 

in place to reflect this and ensure that Home Office staff carry out 

the assessment correctly. The DPIA should refer to this decision 

process to ensure UK GDPR compliance. This is not referred to in 

Draft DPIA V2.3.  

Article 35(7)(c): “an assessment of the risks to the rights and 

freedoms of data subjects referred to in paragraph 1”  

134.  Article 35(7)(c) states that a DPIA shall contain at least:  

“...an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of 

data subjects referred to in paragraph 1.”  

 

 

41 

Enforcement Notice 
 
135.  The ICO’s DPIA guidance9 states that controllers should consider 

the potential impact of the processing on individuals, and any 

harm or damage the processing may cause (whether physical, 

emotional or material).  

136.  Section 7 of the Draft DPIA V2.3 set out the “Risks of the 

Processing.” Only two risks were identified: (1) “processing of 

data relating to an individual’s whereabouts during the monitoring 

period” and (2) “the individual is subjected to monitoring and the 

data that this produces.”  

137.  The Draft DPIA V2.3 additional risk section 7.2(2) set out the 

following additional risks: 1(A)&(B) “continuous access to 

data/monitoring, inappropriate access and/or use of data”; 

1(C)&(D) “use of data collected not compatible with purpose, 

misuse of special category data, unauthorised access to data”; 

1(E) “unauthorised access to data”; and 1(F) “risk to vulnerable 

data subjects.”  

138.  There is a column in the additional risk section 7.2(2) headed 

“Impact”, but for each risk the detail is insufficient. For example, 

for risk 1(A), (B) and (C) it states “intrusion on privacy 

(disproportionate to the purpose of collection).”  

139.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that more detail on risks and 

impact is needed here, beyond a high-level statement of the 

types of risk and impact. The DPIA should detail and consider:  

• 

the risks and impact of physical, psychological and 

material harm. The Home Office should refer to the ICO’s 

9 How do we do a DPIA? | ICO  

 

 

 

42 

Enforcement Notice 
 

harms taxonomy10. For example, the risks of 

stigmatisation of data subjects and inhibited movement;  

• 

the potential risks and impact to vulnerable data 

subjects;  

• 

the potential risks and impact of processing special 

category data;  

• 

the risk and impact to a data subject if a Home Office 

staff member mistakenly issues an electronic tag in 

breach of Convention Rights and/or without 

understanding their vulnerability;   

• 

the risk and impact of at least some data subjects being 

unlikely to have a comprehensive understanding of the 

data processing activities associated with electronic 

monitoring and the associated risks to them, due to their 

circumstances;   

• 

the risk and impact of a lack of transparency regarding 

the data processing activities associated with electronic 

monitoring, which may undermine, complicate or hinder 

the data subjects’ exercise of their rights; and   

• 

risks and impacts related to compliance with the data 

minimisation principle in Article 5(1)(c) when accessing 

trail data.   

140.  The above paragraph does not represent a comprehensive list of 

the risks arising from processing connected to the pilot and the 

potential harms that could be caused.  

10 Overview of Data Protection Harms and the ICO Taxonomy  

 

 

 

43 

Enforcement Notice 
 
141.  The Home Office in its Representations has stated that “these 

risks are more speculative, contingent and more remote in nature 

than the rest listed or than is usually considered in such 

circumstances”. 

142.  The Commissioner strongly disagrees with this representation. An 

important part of a DPIA is to undertake a comprehensive review 

of risks based on the likelihood and severity.  Of course it is not 

always possible for a DPIA to cover every risk, and it is 

reasonable to omit risks which are too speculative and too 

remote. However, the risks outlined in paragraph 139 above 

should have been included in the risk assessment. In each case 

there is more than a minimal risk of occurrence, in particular 

given the number of data subjects, their vulnerabilities and the 

invasive nature of the processing.  

143.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that, in breach of Article 

35(7)(c) UK GDPR, the Home Office has either failed to assess, or 

has inadequately assessed, the risks to the rights and freedoms of 

data subjects arising from the processing connected with the 

pilot.  

Article 35(7)(d) “the measures envisaged to address the risks, 

including safeguards, security measures and mechanisms to ensure 

the protection of personal data and to demonstrate compliance with 

this Regulation taking into account the rights and legitimate interests 

of data subjects and other persons concerned”.  

144.  The Commissioner’s view is that the Home Office’s assessment of 

measures to address the risks was insufficient to meet the 

requirements of Article 35(7)(d). 

 

 

44 

Enforcement Notice 
 
145.  The risk assessment table sets out a number of mitigating actions 

which the Home Office has taken to reduce or eliminate the risks 

identified. However, without a full and complete assessment of the 

potential risks to data subjects in accordance with Article 

35(7)(c), the measures to address risk in the pilot are insufficient.   

146.  Paragraph 7.3 of the Draft DPIA V2.3 poses the question: “Can 

you demonstrate that the risk to the individuals is sufficiently 

balanced by the perceived public protection benefits[?]”. In 

response, the Draft DPIA V2.3 states that:   

“GPS expansion is still a Pilot at this stage to test the use of 

Electronic Monitoring (EM) as a condition of immigration bail 

for those making hazardous journey to the UK. If a decision 

is made about its wider roll-out, the team will test and weigh 

the risks to the individuals against the perceived benefits.”   

147.  The Commissioner acknowledges that the fact this is a pilot did 

provide allowances in the evidence base for decisions. The 

Commissioner’s view is that a pilot still required a detailed risk 

assessment and effective risk mitigation, given that the data 

subjects involved in the pilot would have been exposed to any 

relevant risks.  

148.  The Commissioner’s view is that the Home Office has not fully 

complied with the requirements of Article 35(7)(d). The mitigation 

measures listed in the Draft DPIA V2.3 were not based on a 

sufficiently detailed risk assessment (in accordance with Article 

35(7)(c)) and so the Home Office cannot assess if the mitigations 

are appropriate.  

 

 

45 

Enforcement Notice 
 

INFRINGEMENT OF ARTICLE 5(2) UK GDPR   

149.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office has failed 

and is failing to comply with Article 5(2) UK GDPR in relation to its 

processing of the pilot personal data for the reasons set out 

below. 

Legal Framework – Article 5 

150.  Article 5(1) UK GDPR imposes a requirement on controllers to 

only process personal data in accordance with six principles:   

“(1) Personal data shall be:  

(a)  processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent 

manner in relation to the data subject (‘lawfulness, 

fairness and transparency’);  

(b)  collected for specified, explicit and legitimate 

purposes and not further processed in a manner that is 

incompatible with those purposes; further processing for 

archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or 

historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall, 

in accordance with Article 89(1), not be considered to 

be incompatible with the initial purposes (‘purpose 

limitation’);  

(c)  adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary 

in relation to the purposes for which they are processed 

(‘data minimisation’);  

(d)  accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; 

every reasonable step must be taken to ensure that 

personal data that are inaccurate, having regard to the 

 

 

46 

Enforcement Notice 
 

purposes for which they are processed, are erased or 

rectified without delay (‘accuracy’);  

(e)  kept in a form which permits identification of data 

subjects for no longer than is necessary for the 

purposes for which the personal data are processed; 

personal data may be stored for longer periods insofar 

as the personal data will be processed solely for 

archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or 

historical research purposes or statistical purposes in 

accordance with Article 89(1) subject to implementation 

of the appropriate technical and organisational 

measures required by this Regulation in order to 

safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject 

(‘storage limitation’);  

(f)  processed in a manner that ensures appropriate 

security of the personal data, including protection 

against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against 

accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 

appropriate technical or organisational measures 

(‘integrity and confidentiality’).”  

151.  There is a seventh principle, which is set out in Article 5(2) UK 

GDPR:  

“The controller shall be responsible for, and be able to 

demonstrate compliance with, paragraph 1 

(‘accountability’).”  

 

 

47 

Enforcement Notice 
 

The Home Office’s failure to comply with Article 5(2): the principle 

of accountability  

152.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office has failed 

and is failing to adequately demonstrate its compliance with: 

• 

 Article 5(1)(a), the principle of lawfulness, fairness and 

transparency; and  

•  Article 5(1)(c), the principle of data minimisation.  

153.  In these circumstances, the principle of lawfulness, fairness and 

transparency requires compliance with (inter alia) four key UK 

GDPR Articles:  

• 

for lawfulness: Article 6 (lawfulness of processing) and Article 

9 (processing of special categories of personal data); and  

• 

for fairness and transparency: Article 12 (transparent 

information, communication and modalities for the exercise of 

the rights of the data subject) and Article 13 (information to be 

provided where personal data are collected from the data 

subject).  

The Home Office must demonstrate its compliance with those four 

Articles, to comply with Article 5(2).  

154.  The Commissioner accepts the Home Office’s Representation that 

the UK GDPR does not require compliance with Article 5(2) in any 

particular form. The Commissioner has based his assessment on 

the documents provided by the Home Office, and notes that the 

Home Office has not provided any further documents with its 

Representations for consideration. On that basis, the 

Commissioner concludes that there are no additional documents 

 

 

48 

Enforcement Notice 
 

which demonstrate the Home Office’s compliance with the 

purpose of compliance with Article 5(2). 

155.  For ‘lawfulness’, the key documents are: the Draft DPIA V2.3, 

the Pilot Guidance, the Data Access Request Form, the Data 

Access Guidance and Process to Access Information. 

156.  For ‘fairness and transparency’, the key documents are those 

provided as privacy information. From Draft DPIA V2.3, these are:  

• 

the departmental privacy notice (the Home 

Office’s high level privacy notice: Borders, 

immigration and citizenship: privacy information 

notice);  

•  privacy information within the EMS booklet; and  

• 

the STS PIN.  

In this EN, these documents together will be referred to as the 

“Updated Privacy Notice”.  

157.  For ‘data minimisation’, the key documents are Draft DPIA 

V2.3, the Data Access Request Form, the Data Access Guidance 

and the Process to Access Information.  

158.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the cited documents do 

not demonstrate compliance with the relevant Article 5(1) 

principles, and on that basis the Home Office has failed and is 

failing to comply with Article 5(2). The details are set out in the 

following paragraphs.  

 

 

49 

Enforcement Notice 
 
(i) 

LAWFULNESS: demonstrating compliance with Article 6 

(lawfulness of processing) and Article 9 (processing of 

special categories of personal data)  

159.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office has failed 

and is failing to demonstrate its compliance with Articles 6 and 

Articles 9, for the reasons set out below. 

Draft DPIA V2.3: 

160.  From Draft DPIA V2.3, the Home Office is processing pilot 

personal data under the Article 6(1)(e) lawful basis:  

“...processing is necessary for the performance of a task 

carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official 

authority vested in the controller.”  

161.  According to Draft DPIA V2.3 the Home Office is processing 

special category personal data for the pilot under Article 9(2)(g) 

and schedule 1 paragraph 6 of the DPA, which together require 

that processing is (a) necessary for either the exercise of a 

function conferred on a person by an enactment or the rules of 

law, or a function of a Minister of the Crown or government 

department; and (b) is necessary for reasons of substantial public 

interest.  

162.  In these circumstances, the public ‘task’ referred to in paragraph 

160 above, and the public ‘functions’ referred to in paragraph 161 

above, are the same, being those functions of the Home Office set 

out in various immigration statutes (see paragraphs 19-21 above) 

(the “relevant public tasks/functions”).  

163.  The Commissioner’s view is that the Home Office has not 

demonstrated in the Draft DPIA V2.3 the assessment of how 

 

 

50 

Enforcement Notice 
 

processing of pilot personal data is necessary and proportionate 

for each processing activity needed for the Home Office to carry 

out relevant public tasks/functions. More information on this is set 

out in paragraphs 117-133 above. 

The Pilot Guidance, the Data Access Request Form, the Data 

Access Guidance and Process to Access Information 

164.  Furthermore, the Commissioner’s assessment is that the guidance 

given to Home Office staff in the Pilot Guidance, the Data Access 

Request Form, the Data Access Guidance and Process to Access 

Information, does not demonstrate that the Home Office is only 

processing the pilot personal data when it is necessary and 

proportionate for the Home Office to carry out relevant public 

tasks/functions. In particular, when its staff processes pilot 

personal data in relation to:  

(a) deciding whether or not to issue an electronic 

monitoring bail condition to a data subject; and  

(b) accessing the trail data.  

(a) In deciding whether or not to issue an electronic monitoring 

bail condition to a data subject 

165.  In deciding whether or not to issue an electronic monitoring bail 

condition to a data subject: the decision-making process laid out 

by the Pilot Guidance is that the presumption is that electronic 

monitoring should be used unless:  

•  one of only four exceptions apply, namely the data 

subject is under 18, has been released from detention 

under sections 37 or 41 of the Mental Health Act 1983 

and remains subject to a supervision order, is pregnant 

 

 

51 

Enforcement Notice 
 

(18+ weeks) or has recently given birth (up to 3 months 

post-partum), or resides in Scotland or Northern Ireland. 

However this can be overridden by an Assistant Director; 

or  

• 

it is impractical; or  

• 

it would breach Convention Rights.   

166.  Home Office in its Representations stated that: 

“These were not the only exemptions – they were merely the 

exemptions that definitely applied in every case. There was no 

presumption that EM should be used unless a limited set of 

exemptions applied. Decision makers were able to take a non-

exhaustive list of practical reasons and representations into 

account.  

“Immigration bail conditions guidance: 

There will be some cases that may not be suitable for an EM 

condition for practicality reasons or because there is a risk that 

their rights under ECHR could be breached. When reviewing the 

individual circumstances of the particular case and deciding 

whether it is appropriate to monitor a person, the following 

should be taken into consideration:  

•  whether there is strong independent medical evidence to 

suggest that an EM condition would cause serious harm to 

the person’s mental or physical health  

•  whether a claim of torture been accepted by the Home 

Office or a Court  

 

 

52 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  whether there has been a positive conclusive grounds 

decision in respect of a claim to be a victim of modern 

slavery 

•  whether the person’s mental capacity is deemed to be a 

bar to understanding the EM conditions and therefore their 

ability to comply for example, a person suffering with 

dementia  

•  whether the individual is suffering with phlebitis or similar 

conditions which cause swelling of the lower legs 

•  whether the individual is showing any signs of frailty or 

age-related conditions which may impact on the person’s 

ability to wear and/or maintain the device  

The above list is not exhaustive: decision makers must consider 

the individual circumstances of each case.” 

167.  It seems that the stated intention of the Home Office in its 

Representations, is not reflected in the Pilot Guidance. The 

Commissioner remains of the view that the way the decision 

making process is explained in the Pilot Guidance does mean 

there was a presumption that electronic monitoring must be used 

unless limited exceptions applied. In particular: 

•  The first key section is the list of 4 exemptions, under 

the heading ‘Use of EM’, on page 8 of the Pilot Guidance. 

The effect of this on the decision making process is that 

only those people who fit within the exemptions are 

ruled out of electronic monitoring. 

•  The second key section is on page 13 of the Pilot 

Guidance. It states that: 

 

 

53 

Enforcement Notice 
 

“There will be some cases that may not be suitable 

for an EM condition for practicality reasons or 

because there is a risk that their rights under ECHR 

could be breached.” 

The effect of this sentence is that the presumption is that 

an electronic monitoring condition should be imposed 

unless there is a practicality reason or a risk to ECHR 

rights.  

168.  The fact that this is the guidance provided (in other words, that 

the presumption for Home Office staff is to electronically tag a 

data subject) means that two further actions should have been 

taken by the Home Office:  

• 

first, the DPIA should have explained why adopting a 

default position of tagging the data subject unless one of 

a limited and explicit list of exceptions applies was 

necessary and proportionate for the relevant public 

tasks/functions. This is not the case here (see 

paragraphs 117-133); and  

•  second, the Pilot Guidance should have set out a detailed 

and (near) exhaustive set of situations in which the 

default presumption will be inapplicable and/or detailed 

guidance how to decide if the electronic monitoring is 

impracticable or breaches rights under ECHR. This is not 

the case here (see paragraphs 170-177).  

169.  Without this, the Home Office is unable to demonstrate why, for 

each data subject, the decision to tag them was necessary and 

proportionate for the purpose of the pilot and the relevant public 

tasks/functions.   

 

 

54 

Enforcement Notice 
 
170.  In particular, there is no or limited guidance as to:  

•  when an Assistant Director should decide to issue an 

electronic monitoring condition despite one of the 

exceptions applying;  

•  when an electronic monitoring condition is “impractical”. 

Just two paragraphs are provided on this point, at page 

10 of the Pilot Guidance, with the only example being 

that “an individual may reside in a property which has 

both a poor GPS signal and is not served by electricity”; 

and   

•  when an electronic monitoring condition breaches 

Convention Rights (although this seems to be in the 

wrong section of the guidance).   

171.  The main section in the Pilot Guidance on how Home Office staff 

should apply Convention Rights sets out a list of considerations 

for staff when “deciding whether it is appropriate to monitor a 

person”. This is the list of criteria set out in the Representations in 

paragraph 166 above.  

172.  The Pilot Guidance states that meeting one of these criteria does 

not prohibit imposing an electronic monitoring bail condition. The 

Home Office staff must consider the balance between that and 

other (unnamed) factors. The Pilot Guidance requires that the 

decision to impose in that situation must be agreed by at least an 

Assistant Director. There is no further detail in the Pilot Guidance 

as to how those decisions should be made to ensure compliance 

with Convention Rights and UK GDPR.  

173.  In finding that balance, it is not clear if the alternative is 

detention or alternative bail condition(s).   

 

 

55 

Enforcement Notice 
 
174.  If the Home Office staff member did not consider it appropriate to 

issue an electronic monitoring bail condition for a different reason, 

this had to be signed off at least at SEO level. There is no further 

detail in the Pilot Guidance as to how those decisions should be 

made to ensure compliance with Convention Rights and UK GDPR.  

175.  The Pilot Guidance requires medical evidence but acknowledges 

that it may take time to substantiate that claim (up to 28 days). 

There is no reference to allowing time for the Home Office or a 

court to accept a claim of torture, or for a Home Office decision 

that the data subject is a victim of modern slavery.  

176.  The Pilot Guidance sets out when representations from the 

individuals must be invited. The Home Office has stated in its 

Representations that: 

“The HO is under various legal duties to consider the 

rights position and welfare of data subjects and this 

standard of care won’t change materially whether a 

person makes representations or not or makes less or 

limited representation because of the power balance. The 

representations mechanism is designed as an additional 

evidence gathering route to assist carrying out HO duties. 

If an individual didn’t make representations or limited 

their representations due to power imbalance that 

wouldn’t legally or practically allow the HO to provide 

them with a lower level of treatment.” 

177.  The Commissioner accepts this Representation. However the 

section of the Pilot Guidance which deals with data subject 

representations does not explain this. This means the Home Office 

is unable to demonstrate that proportionate influence is placed on 

 

 

56 

Enforcement Notice 
 

the representations (including where limited or no representations 

are made) in the decision making process.   

(b) In accessing the trail data  

178.  There is limited detail as to when and how decisions to access and 

use the trail data must be made in the Draft DPIA V2.3, the Pilot 

Guidance, the Data Access Request Form, the Data Access 

Guidance or the Process to Access Information. This means that 

Home Office is unable to demonstrate that this processing of the 

trail data would be necessary and proportionate for the relevant 

public functions/tasks.  

179.  For access to the trail data for the Operational Purposes, there is 

insufficient assessment in the Draft DPIA V2.3 as to whether and 

to what extent access to trail data is necessary and proportionate 

for the purposes of the pilot and so the relevant public 

functions/tasks. (See paragraphs 132 and 133 above).  

180.  For access to the trail data for the Non-Operational Purposes, the 

Home Office could choose to make an assessment of the necessity 

and proportionality of each particular instance of access by 

reference to the purpose of the request on a case by case basis at 

the time of receipt. This could then be demonstrated in its 

guidance for staff who are deciding to access and use the trail 

data for those purposes.  

181.  For both the Operational and Non-Operational Purposes, the, 

there is little or no guidance in the Pilot Guidance, the Data 

Access Request Form, the Data Access Guidance or the Process to 

Access Information for Home Office staff as to how to make the 

decision to access the trail data.  

 

 

57 

Enforcement Notice 
 
182.  Home Office has stated in its Representations that accessing and 

using trail data: 

“… is covered in the Process Control Document. 

N.B. There were 62 occasions in which trail data was 

accessed for the purposes of the pilot. 56 of these 

occasions related to alerts as a result of ‘strap tamper’ i.e. 

where the EM device was damaged and rendered 

inoperable. 6 related to less serious bail breaches e.g. 

battery depletion.” 

183.  The Process Control Document (which we refer to as the Process 

to Access Information) sets out the Home Office process for data 

requests but does not provide guidance to Home Office staff 

about how to make the decision to access the trail data. The only 

guidance given is that when triaging the request the staff 

member: 

”triages it to ensure it meets the necessary data sharing 

protocols, eg duly authorised, and the request is 

necessary, justified and proportionate…” 

This is not sufficient to demonstrate that access to the trail data 

is necessary and proportionate for the relevant public 

functions/tasks.  

(ii) FAIRNESS AND TRANSPARENCY: Demonstrating compliance 

with Articles 12 and 13  

184.  The Updated Privacy Notice is made up of three documents, 

namely:   

• 

the STS PIN;  

 

 

58 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  a privacy notice within the EMS booklet; and   

• 

the departmental privacy notice (the Home Office’s high 

level privacy notice: “Borders, Immigration and 

Citizenship: privacy information notice”).  

185.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office has not 

demonstrated by its Updated Privacy Notice, that, in compliance 

with Article 12, all data subjects have been provided with all the 

information required by Article 13 in a:  

“concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, 

using clear and plain language”,  

This means the Home Office has not demonstrated compliance 

with Article 5(1)(a) (the principle of ‘fairness and transparency’).  

186.  The failures to demonstrate compliance with Article 12 are as 

follows: 

•  The Updated Privacy Notice, and in particular the STS 

PIN, fails to set out the privacy information clearly in one 

place. This may be a single document with clear links or 

references to other documents with an explanation as to 

how each applies and interacts.  

•  The purpose of processing in the STS PIN remains 

unclear and is not consistent with the purpose set out 

within the Draft DPIA V2.3. The STS PIN describes the 

purpose of processing as follows:  

“From 15 June 2022, the HO is running a pilot to test 

whether Electronic Monitoring is a better means of 

maintaining contact with people who have arrived in 

 

 

59 

Enforcement Notice 
 

the UK via unnecessary and dangerous routes. The HO 

wants to know if the use of these devices will:  

•  Help the HO keep in contact with more people 

while their application is being processed than is 

currently the case;  

•  Test out whether the device information can 

help the HO in regaining contact with individuals 

when contact is lost;  

And as [a] result this may enable the HO to process 

applications quicker”. 

This does not align with the purposes set out in 

Draft DPIA V2.3 (see paragraph 35 and 36 above).  

•  The addition of the reference in STS PIN to processing 

applications “quicker” is at best confusing for data 

subjects and at worst could be misleading, as it may lead 

them to consider that their application will be processed 

more quickly if they participate in the pilot.  

•  The STS PIN sets out how and when trail data is 

accessed:  

“It is not anticipated that GPS trail data will be needed 

other than in very exceptional circumstances and the 

Home Office will always consider whether to do so is 

necessary and proportionate before making a request 

to see the data.”  

There is no explanation or guidance on what the “very 

exceptional circumstances” may include.  

 

 

60 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  The term “GPS Trail data” is not defined or explained and 

this gap in the STS PIN is likely to inhibit understanding.   

•  The three documents forming the Updated Privacy Notice 

are not sufficiently integrated; there are inconsistencies 

and information gaps. For example, the Electronic 

Monitoring Handbook states the controller to be the 

Ministry of Justice.  

•  The information in the STS PIN provided on special 

category data is not clear. It states that:  

“This project will be using special category data that 

concerns a person’s health when considering 

whether a GPS tag is suitable for each individual. No 

other special category data is used for this project. 

However, the Home Office does collect and use data 

that identifies an individual’s nationality and has 

decided that this information will be given the same 

level of protection as that of special category data to 

protect the individual. Where geographic location is 

collected, this purpose will not be used to identify 

special category data. Geolocation is only used for 

the purposes outlined in your EM booklet to 

maintain contact with you.”  

This is confusing and it would be unclear to a data 

subject what this meant for them. It is not clear if 

information about a person’s health and nationality are 

processed only as a result of the pilot, or if this is 

personal data which the Home Office would process in 

any event.   

 

 

61 

Enforcement Notice 
 

In addition, this does not accurately reflect the fact that 

special category data may be processed when the trail 

data is accessed, depending on the data subjects 

movements (see Paragraphs 95-101 above). This should 

be clearly explained to data subjects.  

•  The STS PIN refers to GPS coordinates, trail data, 

geographic location and geolocation. It is not clear if 

these are different types of data or different ways of 

referring to the same data.   

187.  The Commissioner has reviewed the improvements to the privacy 

information made by the Home Office in response to previous 

recommendations made by the Commissioner. However, the 

Commissioner’s view remains that the Updated Privacy Notice, 

and in particular the STS PIN, still does not demonstrate 

compliance with the requirements of Article 12, and this means 

that compliance with the requirements of Article 13 has not been 

effectively provided. 

188.  The Commissioner welcomes the explanation from the Home 

Office in its Representations that its Home Office staff explained 

orally to data subjects how their data will be used. However: 

• 

 There is still a requirement in Article 12 for the 

information referred to in Article 13 to be provided in 

writing or other means such as electronic means. The 

information must be provided in a concise, transparent, 

intelligible and easily accessible form using clear and 

plain language. It can be provided orally if requested by 

the data subject.  

 

 

62 

Enforcement Notice 
 

• 

In any event, this oral explanation cannot be taken into 

account regarding Article 5(2) and demonstrating 

compliance with the transparency principle and Articles 

12 and 13, as how this was done by Home Office staff 

was not set out in any detail in Draft DPIA V2.3 and/or 

Pilot Guidance and/or in the Updated Privacy Notice.  

(iii) DATA MINIMISATION: Demonstrating compliance with Article 

5(1)(c)  

189.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that the Home Office has failed 

to demonstrate its compliance with Article 5(1)(c), and so is in 

breach of Article 5(2), for the reasons set out below. 

190.  This finding is further to the lack of detailed guidance available to 

Home Office staff when deciding whether or not to access trail 

data and use trail data in making decisions (see paragraphs 178-

183 above). 

191.  The Draft DPIA V2.3 fails to expressly apply the principle of data 

minimisation to the occasions when the Home Office may access 

the trail data (for its own or a third party’s purposes) and how 

much of the trail data to request access to. For example, there is 

no reference to the importance of limiting the time period for 

which access is requested.   

192.  Similarly, the Data Access Request Form, the Data Access 

Guidance and Process to Access Information fail to give Home 

Office staff any guidance on how to consider and apply the 

principle of data minimisation when requesting access to the trail 

data. For example, the Data Access Guidance does not advise 

Home Office staff to consider whether to make the request at all 

(in circumstances where, for a minor breach, the first step could 

 

 

63 

Enforcement Notice 
 

be to contact the data subject), or to only make a request for 

specific data and for a limited time period where required.  

PART V:  DECISION TO ISSUE THIS ENFORCEMENT NOTICE  

193.  The Commissioner requires the Home Office to take the steps set 

out in Annex 1. The Commissioner considers these are 

appropriate and proportionate steps for the purpose of remedying 

the failures identified by the Commissioner in this EN. 

Legal Framework – Enforcement Notices  

194.  Under section 149(6) DPA, an enforcement notice given in 

reliance on section 149(2) DPA may only impose requirements 

which the Commissioner considers appropriate for the purpose of 

remedying the failures identified by the Commissioner.  

195.  Pursuant to section 150(1) DPA, “an enforcement notice must 

state what the person has failed or is failing to do, and give the 

Commissioner’s reasons for reaching that opinion.”  

196.  When considering whether to issue an enforcement notice in 

reliance on section 149(2) DPA, the Commissioner must, in 

accordance with section 150(2) DPA:  

“consider whether the failure has caused, or is likely to 

cause any person damage or distress.”   

197.  Where an enforcement notice is issued in reliance on section 

149(2) DPA, section 150(3) DPA makes it clear that:  

“the Commissioner’s power under section 149(1)(b) to 

require a person to refrain from taking specified steps 

includes the power:  

 

 

64 

Enforcement Notice 
 

a)  to impose a ban relating to all processing of 

personal data, or  

b)  to impose a ban relating only to a specified 

description of processing of personal data, including 

by specifying one or more of the following:  

(i)  a description of personal data;  

(ii)  the purpose or manner of the processing;  

(iii) the time when the processing takes 

place.”  

198.  Pursuant to section 150(4):  

“an enforcement notice may specify the time or times at 

which, or period or periods within which, a requirement 

imposed by the notice must be complied with.”  

Matters the Commissioner has had regard to:  

199.  The Commissioner has made an assessment (as required in 

accordance with section 150(2) DPA when deciding whether to 

serve an enforcement notice) of whether any contravention has 

caused or is likely to cause any person damage or distress. The 

Commissioner’s view is that, based on the current versions of the 

Draft DPIA V2.3, the Pilot Guidance, Data Access Request Form, 

the Data Access Guidance and Process to Access Information, and 

Updated Privacy Notice, for at least some data subjects, damage 

and/or distress is likely to have been caused and there is a 

significant risk that damage and/or distress may be caused in 

future.   

200.  This is because (inter alia):  

 

 

65 

Enforcement Notice 
 

• 

the infringements which the Commissioner has identified 

could have had, and could have, important consequences 

for those data subjects who were electronically tagged, 

in particular as the data subjects were in a situation 

which was likely to make at least some of them 

vulnerable;  

• 

the failure by the Home Office to adequately assess (in 

Draft DPIA V2.3) and give guidance to its staff on how to 

make the assessment of the necessity and 

proportionality of the processing for the purpose of the 

pilot meant there was no assurance for any data subject 

that electronic monitoring as an immigration bail 

condition was a fair and balanced measure, assessed 

alongside alternatives. Some data subjects may have 

been tagged when it was not necessary and 

proportionate;   

• 

the Commissioner has not seen adequate evidence of 

safeguards against the risks to data subjects associated 

with electronic monitoring as an immigration bail 

condition. For those being monitored, for example, this 

could have included psychological harm for example due 

to actual or perceived stigmatisation and a perceived 

need to inhibit movement;  

•  data subjects may not have expected their data to be 

processed in the way that the Home Office is processing 

it, and may not expect their data to be processed in the 

way the Home Office and third parties may process it in 

future (as they have not been given an effective privacy 

notice); and/or   

 

 

66 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  some or all of a data subject’s trail data may have been 

accessed when it was not necessary and proportionate 

for the purpose of the pilot (or for one of the Non-

Operational Purposes), and may be accessed when it is 

not necessary and proportionate for one of the Non-

Operational Purposes. In addition more trail data than is 

needed may have been, or may be accessed.  

201.  The Commissioner’s assessment is that compliance with the UK 

GDPR provisions referred to above is a matter of importance to 

data protection law. Even if a failure to comply has not caused, or 

is not likely to cause, any person damage or distress, the issue of 

this enforcement notice to compel compliance would nonetheless 

be an appropriate exercise of the Commissioner’s enforcement 

powers.  

202.  The Commissioner considers that the failures set out in this EN 

are important for compliance with UK GDPR by the Home Office 

more broadly than just this pilot. The Commissioner is concerned 

that failures here could be repeated by Home Office for other 

operations. In particular the Home Office’s failure to: 

•  document in enough detail each processing activity for 

the purpose of a DPIA, including the nature, scope, 

context and purposes;  

•  carry out an assessment of necessity and proportionality 

for each processing activity; 

•  carry out a risk assessment of the risks to the rights and 

freedoms of data subjects for the purpose of a DPIA 

• 

identify vulnerability in data subjects 

 

 

67 

Enforcement Notice 
 

•  provide a privacy notice “in a concise, transparent, 

intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and 

plain language”, which takes into account the nature of 

data subject including any vulnerabilities 

•  provide detailed guidance to staff who need to apply key 

legal constructs such as applying the necessity and 

proportionality test, the principle of data minimisation, or 

applying rights under the Human Rights Act. 

203.  The Commissioner has taken into consideration the 

Representations, including the fact that the pilot has ended, 

including all electronic monitoring under the pilot, and no new 

trail data is being collected. The ongoing processing of pilot 

personal data is in the retention of the pilot personal data 

including trail data, and potential access and use of the trail data 

by Home Office staff and potential disclosure to the data subject 

and third parties of the trail data. 

204.  In June 2022, the Commissioner set out a revised approach to 

public sector enforcement to be trialled over two years.11 To 

support this approach, the Commissioner committed to working 

proactively with senior leaders in the public sector to encourage 

compliance, prevent harms before they occur, and learn lessons 

when things have gone wrong. In practice, this means that for the 

public sector the Commissioner has committed to increasing the 

use of public reprimands and enforcement notices, only issuing 

fines in the most egregious cases.12  

 

11 Open letter from UK Information Commissioner John Edwards to public authorities, 30 June 2022.  
12 See ICO25 – Our Regulatory Approach, 7 November 2022, p.7.  

 

 

68 

Enforcement Notice 
 
205.  The Commissioner has had regard to the revised public sector 

approach in reaching the decision to issue this EN. The  

Commissioner is satisfied that this case is one which meets the 

criteria for formal enforcement action, to reflect the seriousness 

of the infringement and the significant risk to data subjects.  

206.  The Commissioner has had regard to the desirability of promoting 

economic growth, and the potential impact this enforcement 

notice might have in this regard.   

Decision to issue this Enforcement Notice  

207.  Having had regard to those matters set out in paragraphs 199-

206 above, and the nature of the infringements, the vulnerable 

nature of some data subjects, the scale of the personal data being 

processed and the context in which it is processed, the 

Commissioner’s view is that this EN is an appropriate regulatory 

step to remedy the failures identified in this EN.  

PART VI:  APPEAL  

208.  The Home Office is entitled to appeal against this EN to the First-

tier Tribunal (Information Rights) by virtue of Section 162(1)(c) 

DPA. If an appeal is brought against this EN, the EN need not be 

complied with pending determination or withdrawal of that 

appeal.  

209.  Information about the appeals process may be obtained from: 

General Regulatory Chamber  

HM Courts & Tribunals Service  

PO Box 9300  

Leicester Lel 8DJ  

 

 

69 

Enforcement Notice 
 

Telephone: 0203 936 8963  

Email: grc@justice.gov.uk 85.  

210.  Any Notice of Appeal should be served on the First-tier Tribunal 

within 28 calendar days of the date on which this EN is sent. 

 

Dated: 28 February 2024 

 

 

 

 

John Edwards 

Information Commissioner 

Wycliffe House   

Water Lane   

Wilmslow   

Cheshire   

SK9 5AF   

  

 

 

 

70 

Enforcement Notice 
 

ANNEX 1  

TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT NOTICE  

 

Within 28 days of the date of this Enforcement Notice, the Home Office 

must provide to the Commissioner the following documents:  

1  Updated versions of the Data Access Request Form, the Data 

Access Request Guidance and the Process Control Document which 

meet the requirements of Article 5(2) to demonstrate compliance 

with the Article 5(1)(a) principle of lawfulness and Article 5(1)(c) 

principle of data minimisation, when Home Office staff access, use 

and disclose trail data.  

2 

An updated version of the STS PIN which meets the requirements 

of Article 5(2) to demonstrate compliance with the Article 5(1)(a) 

principle of fairness and transparency and which meets all the 

requirements of Articles 12 and 13 (“Revised Privacy Notice”). This 

Revised Privacy Notice must cover the past, current and potential 

future processing of the pilot personal data by the Home Office.  

3  Documentation of the process to provide the Revised Privacy 

Notice to all data subjects whose trail data is retained by the 

Home Office, in accordance with Article 12. This must include how 

this Revised Privacy Notice will be provided to data subjects with 

limited understanding of English. 

 

 

 

71 

