
As part of the third day of the Privacy Symposium 2023 in Venice, on Wednesday, April 19, the panel "The Future of Data Protection Officers" was held, in which the Director of the Agency, Zdravko Vukić, participated.
On the panel moderated by Pierre-Yves Lastic (European Federation of Data Protection Officers), Judith Leschanz (Association of Austrian Data Protection Officers), Ali Zanjani (Austrian Supervisory Authority) and Cosimo Monda (European Center for Privacy and Cybersecurity) participated. security in Maastricht), discussed the role of data protection officers in the future, their readiness to face new challenges - a comprehensive set of new rules for all digital services such as the Digital Markets Act (DMA), the Digital Services Act, but also the Act on artificial intelligence.
During the panel, director Vukić pointed out that it will be a challenge for data protection officers in Croatia, because often officers are not sufficiently familiar with the basics of personal data protection. He also pointed out that organizations in Croatia generally have problems with appointing an appropriate data protection officer and that general awareness of the importance of the role of the officer is not sufficiently developed.
"Data protection officers do not have enough independence in their work and very often their advice is not followed and they often struggle to avoid conflicts of interest between their duties as data protection officers and other duties within the organization. The Personal Data Protection Agency has always been a great support to data protection officers, and we continuously organize various trainings aimed at them. However, despite all our efforts, the understanding of the importance of the role of data protection officers among data controllers, as well as their knowledge, is still at a low level. There is no doubt that the role of data protection officers will become even more important and complex in the near future, and officers must be ready to face new challenges," said Director Vukić and emphasized that the Agency will continue to raise awareness of the vital importance of the role of officers. for data protection.
Otherwise, the Privacy Symposium, which was held from April 17 to 21 in Venice, aims to support international dialogue, cooperation and knowledge exchange on data protection by gathering data protection experts, authorities, international organizations and the research community to discuss the latest developments and perspectives related to data protection and privacy. This year's focus of the Privacy Symposium was on international cooperation and approximation of data protection regulations; new technology and compliance with data protection and compliance with health and data protection requirements. The Symposium was hosted by Ca'Foscari University and organized in collaboration with several partners, including the Data Protection Unit of the Council of Europe, the European Certification and Privacy Center (ECCP), the European Law Students Association (ELSA), the European Cyber Security Organization ( ECSO), European Federation of Data Protection Officers (EFDPO), European Privacy and Cybersecurity Center (ECPC), Italian Privacy Institute (IIP), Italian Cyber Security Association (CLUSIT), IoT Forum, Mandat International, IoT Lab and European research projects such as Gatekeeper.

























