1/10

 File No.: PS/00486/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the ONE CLAIMANT party) on the 10th of
May 2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data
cough.

The claim is directed against COMMUNITY OF OWNERS B.B.B. with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, THE COMMUNITY OF OWNERS).

The reason on which the claim is based is the publication by the President of the
Community of Owners on the website ***URL.1, information contained
the personal data of several owners, among which are those of the RE-
CLAIMANT ONE (name, surnames, floor).

Later, D.C.C.C. and D. D.D.D., (hereinafter, the TWO CLAIMANT and
RECLY THREE) dated June 2 and 3 of the same year, respectively, inter-
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Agency in relation to them
facts (publication of your personal data on the website ***URL.1), accumulated
both to the file referenced above.

Together with the claims, copies of the publications made on the page are provided.
web page mentioned in which the personal data of the claimants are recorded, as well as
as the requirements to the President of the Community of Owners requesting the
removal of such posts.

It is noteworthy that these publications are not made in the restricted section of the page.
web page that can only be accessed by the owners.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the claims were transferred to THE COMMUNITY OF
PROPRIETORS, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the prerequisites
seen in the data protection regulations.

The transfer of the first claim was sent on May 28, 2021 to tra-
through the Electronic Notification Service and Authorized Electronic Address,
do notified that same day.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

The transfer of the second and third claim was sent on June 28,
2021 through the Electronic Notification Service and Electronic Address Enabling
litada, being notified that same day.

THIRD: QUERETARO CONSULTORIA Y CIBERSEGURIDAD S.L., on behalf of and
representation of the claimed party, upon notification of the second claim
filed on June 28, 2021, requests an extension of the granted term, estimating-
be the same dated June 30, 2021.

This company was contracted by THE COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, in the year
2018 on the occasion of the entry into force of the European Data Protection Regulation.
Personal data RGPD 679/2016 of April 27, as coordinator of protection of
personal data in order to implement the required requirements, make se-
follow-up and clarify the doubts and divergences that could arise in the different areas.
cough.

Thus, on July 23 of that same year, this Agency received a letter of res-
set indicating that:

“In 2018, due to the imminent entry into force of the European Regulation
Protection of Personal Data (RGPD 679/2016 of April 27), the Community of
Owners B.B.B. through the company in charge of its administration.
ma, commissioned QCC to adapt the requirements of the RGPD, carrying out
the drafting of the following documentation:

• Processing commission contracts with the community administration itself.
community of owners, with the labor consultancy in charge of processing the contracts
records and payroll of the community's workforce, with the video surveillance company
gilance.
• Documents for the exercise of rights of access, rectification and deletion
sion, portability, right to be forgotten.
• Document of security measures and how to act in case of breaches.
• Record of treatment activities.
• Periodic checks are made in case any data needs to be modified
and/or create a new document, as is the case with the creation of the page
A website that had to incorporate privacy policies, cookies and notice
legal respectively.

The aforementioned website was approved by the direct meeting and was validated by the
owners meeting in March 2019 when approving the annual report of the president
where all the details have been reported and put to the vote. the same-
ma was approved by the absolute majority of the members… The website as such, is indicated
from the presidency of the community, it is used as a channel of information about the
most relevant events that occur in it, including (using the right to
right to information and freedom of expression), the behavior and actions that
certain owners are carried out, being in that area where they are circumscribed
the comments made... I cannot confirm or deny if they have sent informa-
tion to the editor of the website and he has censored it. On the other hand, it should be noted that the web dis-
puts a restricted section only accessible to owners prior registration of
access…".

The following documentation is attached to the aforementioned document:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

 Copy of the treatment order contracts.


Report of the president of 2019 that was approved in the assembly by the majority-
estuary of the owners.

 Privacy policy and legal notice that appears on the web.
 Document from the Spanish Data Protection Agency of 2008, accrediting
tive of inscription of files. Demonstrates concern for compliance
regulations by the Community of Owners.

FOURTH: On August 10, 2021, the admission for processing of the applications took place.
claims filed against THE COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, in accordance with
ity with the provisions of article 65.5 of the LOPDGDD.

The admission agreement was notified to the interested parties through the Notification Service.
Electronic cations and Electronic Address Enabled on October 4, 2021.

FIFTH: On April 12, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and article 32 of the RGPD,
typified in articles 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: Notification of the start agreement on April 19, 2022 through the
Electronic Notification Service and Authorized Electronic Address, it was requested
by THE COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, on May 3 of that same year,
extension of the period granted to formulate allegations

The extension of the term foreseen to formulate allegations was admitted and notified on the 6th of
May 2022 through the Electronic Notifications and Address Service
Electronics Enabled.

SEVENTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the established rules
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and having passed the
extension of the term granted for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified
that no allegation has been received by the respondent.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is accredited that on the website ***URL.1 of THE COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS information containing personal data has been published
of several owners (name, surnames, apartment).

SECOND: It is accredited that said publications are not made in the section
restricted section of the website, which can only be accessed by the owners.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Previous issues

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 of the RGPD, it consists
carrying out personal data processing, since THE COMMUNITY
DE PROPIETARIOS carries out, among other treatments, the collection, conservation,
fication, consultation and use of the following personal data of natural persons,
such as: name, identification number, telephone number, location of the
housing...etc.

THE COMMUNITY OF OWNERS carries out this activity in its condition of res-
responsible for the treatment, since it is the one who determines the purposes and means of such activity.
ity, by virtue of the aforementioned article 4.7 of the RGPD.

Article 4 section 12 of the RGPD defines, in a broad way, the "violations of se-
security of personal data” (hereinafter security breach) as “all
those breaches of security that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
accidental or illicit of personal data transmitted, conserved or processed in another
form, or unauthorized communication or access to said data.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

In the present case, there is a security breach of personal data in the
circumstances indicated above, categorized as a breach of confidentiality, when
have been published by the President of the Community of Owners B.B.B. on the
Web page ***URL.1, information that contained personal data of some
private owners, without using the restricted section of the website, to which
only the owners can access after registering access.

This duty of confidentiality must be understood to have the purpose of preventing
leaks of the data are carried out, not consented by the owners of these.

It should be noted that receiving a complaint about a security breach
of confidentiality does not imply the imposition of a sanction directly, since
it is necessary to analyze the diligence of those responsible and in charge and the security measures
applied security.

Within the principles of treatment provided for in article 5 of the RGPD, the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed in section 1.f)
of article 5 of the RGPD. For its part, the security of personal data comes
regulated in articles 32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD, which regulate the security of the
treatment, notification of a violation of the security of personal data to
the control authority, as well as the communication to the interested party, respectively.

III

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

Article 5.1.f) “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is clear that the personal data of the claimants, held in
the database of the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, were unduly
exposed to third parties, through its publication in the open section of the website
from the community of owners ***URL.1, which anyone can access; as,
its access does not require prior registration.

For all the above, it is considered that the known facts are constitutive of a
infraction, attributable to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, for violation of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

The infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD supposes the commission of the infractions
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the heading “General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:
"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

Sanction for the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

v

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
considers that the infringement in question is serious for the purposes of the RGPD, setting a
penalty of TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED EUROS (€2,500).

SAW

Article 32 of the GDPR

Article 32 “Security of treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability
variable and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsible
The controller and the data processor will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes
yeah, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-
permanent silence of treatment systems and services;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment
I lie.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken
ta the risks that the treatment of data presents, in particular as a consequence
of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data transmitted
stored, stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mechanism
certification body approved under article 42 may serve as an element for
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
Article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
Any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and having
access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of Union Law or
the Member States”.

In the present case, at the time of the breach, the security measures
available to THE COMMUNITY OF OWNERS were completely insufficient
to guarantee the confidentiality of the personal data of the owners.

These measures took the form of restricted access to information, applying fi-
firewall and antivirus, as well as backup copies and images of the relevant systems.
nents to avoid any contingency.

In relation to the website of said COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, it is incorporated
provided the corresponding privacy policies, cookies and legal notice regarding
vely.

Although, it should have been closed to unauthorized persons and take measures
such as the authorized user being identified by password.
and that the user's connection to the server be made through an encrypted connection (Cone-
SSL connection encrypted with 256-bit AES algorithm) to ensure security and pri-
user emptiness.

The website of the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS as indicated from the pre-
the community, is used as a channel of information on the most
relevant that occur in it, being in that area where the
comments made; despite the fact that there is a restricted section that
requires the prior access registration of the owners.

Therefore, it is considered that the known facts constitute an infraction,
attributable to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, for violation of article 32 of the
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

7th

The aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the RGPD supposes the commission of the infringements
pified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, treating-
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that "Consti-
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 are infractions
of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is con-
they are considered serious and the infractions that suppose a vulnerability will prescribe after two years.
substantial portion of the items mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
be appropriate to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk of the
treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.

Sanction for the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

viii

The infringement in question is considered serious for the purposes of the GDPR and that
It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the following criteria that
establishes article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating factors:

-

  d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32.

In the present case, the Community of Owners must be aware that the
web page ***URL.1 is used as an information channel about the events
most relevant that affect said community of owners, having to
use the restricted section, only accessible to previous owners

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

access log, for the publication of information containing data
owners personal.

Only in this way would the website ***URL.1 be used for the publication of the
information related to the Community of Owners in accordance with the requirements
established in the data protection regulations.
 

 

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 32 of the RGPD,
allows a fine of TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED EUROS (€2,500) to be set.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST:

IMPOSE THE COMMUNITY OF OWNERS URB. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, by
an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED EUROS (€2,500).

IMPOSE THE COMMUNITY OF OWNERS URB. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, by
an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD typified in Article 83.4 of the RGPD, a
fine of TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED EUROS (€2,500).

SECOND: ORDER TO COMMUNITY OF OWNERS URB. B.B.B., okay
to article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, which within 10 days proves the withdrawal of the
personal information published on the website ***URL.1

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
URB. B.B.B.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-050522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

