1/7

 File No.: EXP202200447

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated December 10,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against EL RACO DEL PIS INVERSIONES S.L. with NIF
B66906652 (hereinafter, the claimed party).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The claimant states that the entity claimed by email sent to
a plurality of people on November 24, 2021, exhibited without his
consent your email address to third parties.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), on January 26, 2022, the claim was transferred to
the claimed party, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of availability, understood as rejected
in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP dated February 6, 2022,
as stated in the certificate that is in the file.

THIRD: On March 4, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On June 9, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 6 of the GDPR and article 32 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the period granted
for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
any by the claimed party.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP -provision of which the claimed party was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
arguments within the established term on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement of
beginning of the disciplinary file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infringement of the GDPR attributed to the defendant and the sanction that could
impose. Therefore, taking into consideration that the claimed party has not
made allegations to the agreement to start the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initiation agreement is
considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimed entity has sent an email, to a plurality
of recipients, without using the blind copy modality, which allows third parties to
outside your person have knowledge about the email address of the
claimant.

SECOND: On June 24, 2022, the claimant is notified of the
initiation of this procedure, converting said agreement into a proposed resolution
in accordance with article 64.2 f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP), to the
not make the claimed allegations within the indicated period, despite having been this
extended to your requirement in a timely manner.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to initiate and to
solve this procedure.

II

The principles related to the processing of personal data are regulated in the
Article 5 of the GDPR which establishes that "personal data will be:

"a) treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with said purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be
considered incompatible with the initial purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, up-to-date; all measures will be taken
Reasonable reasons for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed ("accuracy");

e) maintained in such a way that the identification of the interested parties is allowed during
longer than necessary for the purposes of processing personal data; the
personal data may be retained for longer periods as long as
processed exclusively for archiving purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of appropriate technical and organizational measures that
imposes this Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
data subject ("retention period limitation");

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate data security
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility")."

Article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD states that "according to what is established in the
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years, the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

II

Security in the processing of personal data is regulated in article 32 of the
GDPR where the following is established:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature of
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as probability risks
and variable severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsibility
responsible and the person in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, will include
yeah, among others:
a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When assessing the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
The risks presented by the data processing, in particular as a consequence
of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of personal data transmitted
collected, preserved or processed in another way, or the unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mecha-
certification document approved in accordance with article 42 may serve as an element to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and having
ga access to personal data can only process such data following instructions
of the controller, unless it is required to do so by Union law or by
the Member States.”

Article 73.f) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered serious
has:

"Based on article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, serious and
Offenses that involve a substantial violation of the law shall prescribe after two years.
of the articles mentioned therein, and in particular the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

IV.

It is considered that the claimed entity when sending an email in a
plural without using the blind copy modality, you have transferred your data to third parties without
cause that legitimizes it and therefore has processed your personal data
contrary to law.

Thus, this Agency considers that the claimed entity has infringed the
Articles 5.1 f) and 32 of the GDPR, by violating the principle of integrity and confidentiality, as well
such as not adopting the necessary security measures to guarantee the protection of
the personal data of its clients, by not using the copy modality
hidden in the email referral.

V

Article 58.2 of the GDPR provides the following: "Each control authority shall have
of all of the following corrective powers listed below:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

d) order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

SAW

The violation of article 5.1 f) of the GDPR, can be sanctioned with a fine of 20,000
€000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4%
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the one with the highest amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR, considering as
aggravating circumstance according to article 76.2 b) LOPDGDD, the relationship of the person responsible with the
processing of personal data.

VII

The violation of article 32 of the GDPR can be sanctioned with a fine of 10,000,000
€ maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 2%
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the one with the highest amount, in accordance with article 83.4 of the
GDPR.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR, considering as
aggravating circumstance according to article 76.2 b) LOPDGDD, the relationship of the person responsible with the
processing of personal data.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE EL RACO DEL PIS INVERSIONES S.L., with NIF
B66906652, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.i) of the GDPR, for a
infringement of article 5.1 f) of the GDPR typified in article 83.5 a) of the GDPR, a
fine of €6,000 (six thousand euros).

SECOND: IMPOSE EL RACO DEL PIS INVERSIONES S.L., with NIF
B66906652, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.i) of the GDPR, for a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

infringement of article 32 of the GDPR typified in article 83.4 a) of the GDPR a
fine of €3,000 (three thousand euros).

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to EL RACO DEL PIS INVERSIONES
S.L.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

