
21.12.2022.
The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data carries out supervisory proceedings over the data controller B2 Kapital d.o.o. due to the "leaking" of personal data and will inform the public about the findings after the procedure is over. We instruct citizens to request access to their personal data from the data controller in question (B2 Kapital d.o.o.), in accordance with the rights guaranteed by the General Data Protection Regulation, and to provide information on whether and to what extent their personal data is covered by a personal data breach. Contact data protection officer B2 Kapital: zastita-osobnih-podataka@b2kapital.hr.
In connection with frequent requests from citizens for compensation for damages in case of violation of their personal data; any person who has suffered material or non-material damage due to the processing of personal data contrary to the provisions of the General Regulation on Data Protection has the right to compensation for material and non-material damage from the manager or executor of the processing for the damage suffered. However, we emphasize that the Personal Data Protection Agency is NOT the competent authority for compensation. Anyone who has suffered non-material or material damage has the right to initiate proceedings for the exercise of the right to compensation for damage before the competent court (in the Republic of Croatia, this is the municipal court).
We also use this opportunity to warn citizens that in cases where personal data such as name and surname, social security number, e-mail, mobile phone number and the like fall into the hands of criminals, they should pay special attention to the e-mails and messages they will receive , because there is a high possibility that the attacker will try to get other personal data, such as bank card data. After security incidents in which personal data become available to people with unknown intentions, an increase in Internet fraud, such as phishing, is expected. Phishing refers to Internet fraud in the form of fake e-mail messages that appear to be sent by legitimate organizations (for example, a bank or online shopping site) and that trick the recipient into sharing personal, financial or security information. In this way, fraudsters gain access to usernames, passwords or credit card information. In such emails, the individual is most often asked to download an attached document or click on a link.
WARNING! Do not reply to a suspicious email or open an attachment! Do not click on the link, but type the address in the browser! Do not respond to messages in which someone asks you to send them a copy of a bank card, bank pin, password or other strictly confidential personal information!
Frauds and attempted frauds can be reported to the competent authorities (police), which are authorized to act upon the possible commission of a possible criminal offense (misuse of personal data) and this is not within the scope of this Agency.
There is a whole series of internet frauds that can be found in Europol's information brochure: https://www.europol.europa.eu/sites/default/files/documents/hr.pdf and on the Ministry of Interior's Fraud and computer security channel.
You can find more tips for self-protective behavior at the link: https://azop.hr/savjeti-gradanima-za-samozastitno-ponasanje/
