RECOMMENDATION  
n° 02/2020 of January 31, 2020 

The scope of the obligation to conclude a protocol 
to formalize the communication of 
personal data from the 
federal public sector 

I.  
The material scope of Article 20 of the LTD or under what conditions is it 
necessary to conclude a protocol to formalize a communication of personal data? ....................................................................................................................................... 6 
1. First condition: a “federal public authority” communicates personal data 
as the data controller .................................................................................................................... 7 
2. Second condition: the communication of personal data is “necessary for compliance 
with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject” (Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR) or is 
“necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller” (Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR) ........................................................... 8 
3. Third condition: the modalities of the communication are not provided for by a legislative 
or regulatory norm ................................................................................................................................. 15 
4. Fourth condition: the communication is systematic or, if it is occasional, 
occurs towards persons or institutions that are not authorized to receive them under a legal 
mission .................................................................................................................................................. 16 
5. Fifth condition: the “recipient” of the communication is located in Belgium and receives the 
personal data as the data controller ............................................................................................... 17 
II.  
The content of the agreement protocol ....................................................................................... 24 
III.  
Procedural elements ........................................................................................................ 27 
IV.  
Temporal scope of the obligation to conclude an agreement protocol .......................... 28 
V.  
What if the data controllers fail to conclude a protocol to 
formalize the communication of personal data? ................................................................. 31 
1. Principle: deliberation of the federal authority chamber of the information security committee .............. 31 
2. Exceptions: no need for deliberation (nor protocol) ................................................................... 31 
3. Special case regarding communications from the federal public sector to social security institutions belonging to the primary network: deliberation of the joint chambers of the information security committee ................................................................................................................................... 31
**3**

Between 2003 and 2018, any electronic communication of data by a federal public service or by a public body under federal authority had to be authorized by the competent sectoral committee for the Federal Authority, established with the former Commission for the Protection of Privacy (hereinafter "CPVP"), pursuant to Article 36bis of the law of December 8, 1992, on the protection of privacy with respect to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "LVP"). During the authorization procedure, the sectoral committee for the Federal Authority verified that the "communication [was] indeed necessary for the implementation of the missions entrusted, by or under the law, to the requesting federal authority and, on the other hand, that this communication, in its various aspects, [was] compatible with all the existing standards regarding privacy protection concerning the processing of personal data." This prior authorization procedure was repealed by the law of December 3, 2017, establishing the Data Protection Authority (hereinafter "LCA").

Article 20 of the LTD introduces a new obligation for federal public authorities that transfer personal data to third parties. Each communication of personal data must now be formalized by a protocol concluded between the public authority transferring the data.

1 The competent sectoral committee for the federal authority regularly reminded, in its authorizations, the objective pursued by the prior authorization procedure. This objective had been clearly expressed in the justification of amendment No. 12 submitted by the Government, Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2001-2002, No. 50/1940-4, p. 3.  
2 Article 109 of the LCA states that "Chapters VII and VIIbis of the law of December 8, 1992, on the protection of privacy with respect to the processing of personal data are repealed."

The main objective of this document is to clarify the scope of Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018, on the protection of natural persons with respect to the processing of personal data (hereinafter "LTD"). To this end, it specifically aims to clarify the following points:

- The conditions under which a public authority must conclude a protocol to formalize a communication of personal data to a third party

- The content of the protocol formalizing a communication of data from the federal public sector

- The procedural requirements imposed by Article 20 of the LTD for the conclusion of a protocol

- The temporal scope of Article 20 of the LTD

- The procedure to follow when the initial data controller and the data recipient controller fail to reach an agreement
4

and the data controller receiving the personal data, unless a specific law provides otherwise.  

This procedural change is part of the recognition by the GDPR of the principle of accountability, which requires data controllers to implement appropriate and effective measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate compliance of such processing with the Regulation. Indeed, as the preparatory works of Article 20 of the LTD highlight, the obligation to conclude a protocol invites data controllers "to reflect on the compliance of their data exchanges." The protocol concluded between the federal public authority transferring personal data and the data controller receiving the data constitutes an accountability instrument that should lead the public authority to ensure that the communication of data complies with the regulations regarding the protection of personal data, including the GDPR and the LTD.  

Since the entry into force of Article 20 of the LTD, data flows from the federal public sector should, in principle, no longer require authorization from an external body, but should be framed by a protocol concluded between the initial data controller and the data controller receiving the data. However, for cases where data controllers are unable to conclude a protocol formalizing the terms of communication, the legislator has provided an alternative procedure. Indeed, Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012, concerning the creation and organization of a federal service integrator, inserted by Article 86 of the law of September 5, 2019, states that "the communication of personal data by public services and public institutions of the federal authority to third parties other than social security institutions [...] must be subject to a prior deliberation of the federal authority chamber of the information security committee [...] insofar as the data controllers of the communicating instance and the recipient instances do not reach an agreement regarding the communication, or at least one of these data controllers requests a deliberation and has informed the other data controllers. [...] Insofar as the information security committee issues a deliberation for the communication of personal data by the federal authority, the latter is, by way of exception to Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, exempted from the obligation to establish a related protocol with the recipient of the personal data."  

3 One thinks, for example, of Article 15 of the law of January 15, 1990, concerning the establishment and organization of a Crossroads Bank for Social Security, which states that communications from a social security institution must be subject to a prior deliberation of the health social security chamber of the information security committee or the joint chambers of the information security committee. Similarly, Article 11 of the law provides that any communication of personal data by or to the eHealth platform requires, in principle, a prior authorization from the health social security chamber of the information security committee. However, Article 35/1 § 1 of the law of August 15, 2012, concerning the creation and organization of a federal service integrator states that "[...] Insofar as the information security committee issues a deliberation for the communication of personal data by the federal authority, the latter is, by way of exception to Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, exempted from the obligation to establish a related protocol with the recipient of the personal data."  
4 Article 5 § 2 of the GDPR. See also Recital 74.  
5 Parl. Doc., Ch. Ord. Sess., 2017-2018, no. 54-3126/001, p. 421  
6 Law of September 5, 2019, establishing the information security committee and amending various laws concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, M.B., September 10, 2019.
5

personnel by the federal authority, the latter is, by way of exception to Article 20 of the Law of July 30, 2018, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, exempt from the obligation to establish a protocol related to it with the recipient of the personal data […].

*

This note seeks to clarify the scope of the obligation imposed by Article 20 of the LTD to conclude protocols to regulate the flows from the federal public sector. To understand the scope of this obligation, it is necessary to interpret Article 20 of the LTD in its normative context, and in particular to read this provision in light of Article 5 of the LTD, which defines the notion of federal public authority, and Article 35/1 of the Law of August 15, 2012, which governs situations where data controllers fail to conclude a protocol. This reading of Article 20 of the LTD in light of the latter provision is all the more justified as Article 20 of the LTD itself imposes that communications of personal data from the federal public sector be formalized by a protocol between the initial data controller and the recipient data controller, "unless otherwise provided in specific laws."

PRELIMINARY NOTE
The Authority emphasizes that by using the terms "transmission of personal data" or "communication of personal data," it refers not only to situations where a data controller sends personal data to a third party but also to those where a data controller, without directly sending the data to a third party, allows access to it.

7 Article 20 of the LTD uses the terms "the federal public authority that transfers personal data." However, the APD wishes to emphasize that, in the GDPR, the term "transfer" refers to "international transfers," that is, transfers to "third" countries (outside the European Economic Area). To avoid any confusion between a communication of data within the EEA and international data transfers (to third countries), the APD reserves the use of the term "transfer" for "international transfers" (in the sense of Chapter V of the GDPR).

6

I.
The material scope of Article 20 of the LTD or under what conditions is it necessary to conclude a protocol to formalize a communication of personal data?

It can be deduced from a combined reading of Article 20 § 1 of the LTD and Article 35/1 of the Law of August 15, 2012, that the obligation to conclude a protocol agreement is subject to the fulfillment of the following five cumulative conditions:

 A "federal public authority" communicates personal data as a data controller.

 The communication of personal data is carried out in execution "of a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject" (Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR) or is "necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller" (Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR).

 The modalities of the communication are not provided for by a legislative or regulatory norm.

 The communication is systematic or, if it is occasional, occurs towards persons or institutions that are not authorized to receive them under a legal mandate.

 The "recipient" of the communication is located in Belgium and receives the personal data as a data controller.
7

IMPORTANT NOTE  
Article 20 of the LTD, which requires the conclusion of a protocol to regulate data communications from the federal public sector, implements Article 6.2 of the GDPR, which states that "Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this regulation regarding processing in order to comply with paragraph 1, points (c) and (e), by more precisely determining the specific requirements applicable to processing as well as other measures to ensure lawful and fair processing, including in other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX." However, national law provisions adopted under Article 6.2 of the GDPR cannot exempt from the obligation to comply with the GDPR. Public authorities must therefore comply with the GDPR, whether or not they are required to conclude a protocol to regulate the transmission of personal data.

In this regard, it is particularly important to draw attention to the principle of purpose limitation, according to which personal data must be "collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes." It follows that if a data communication pursues one or more purposes different from those for which it was originally collected, a compatibility analysis of the subsequent purposes with the initial purposes must be carried out, unless the subsequent processing is "based on the consent of the data subject or on Union law or the law of a Member State which constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard the objectives set out in Article 23, paragraph 1 [of the GDPR]."

1. First condition: a "federal public authority" communicates personal data as the data controller

Article 5 of the LTD defines the concept of public authority.

According to this definition, the notion of "federal public authority" should be understood as:

1° The federal state

Examples: various SPF, the Council for Alien Law Litigation, the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons, …

8 Article 5.1(b) of the GDPR  
9 Article 6.4 of the GDPR provides a list of criteria that must guide the data controller during this compatibility analysis.  
10 Article 6.4 of the GDPR.  
11 The European legislator chose not to define what should be understood by "public authority" in the context of the application of the GDPR. It was decided to leave it to national legislators to define this notion. In its guidelines regarding data protection officers (WP 243 rev.01), the Article 29 Working Party, which recognizes that the notion of public authority must be defined by national law, recommends adopting a broad definition of the notion encompassing private bodies tasked with performing public service missions or exercising public authority – which the Belgian legislator has done through the adoption of the definition referred to in Article 5 of the LTD.  
12 In the explanatory memorandum of the bill that will become the LTD, it is stated that "The definition of public authority is specified and is taken from the law of May 4, 2016, on the re-use of public sector information [...]", Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, no. 3126/001, p. 17
8

2° Legal entities of public law that depend on the federal State

Examples  
the National Bank, the Federal Planning Bureau,…

3° Entities, regardless of their form and nature, that:  
 have been created specifically to meet general interest needs that are not industrial or commercial in nature; and  
 are endowed with legal personality; and  
 whose activity is either predominantly financed by the federal State or one or more public law entities that depend on it, or whose management is subject to control by the federal State or one or more public law entities that depend on it, or more than half of the members of the governing, management, or supervisory body are appointed by the federal State or one or more public law entities that depend on it;

The Authority draws attention to the cumulative nature of these conditions.

Examples  
bpost [in the exercise of its public service missions], the SNCB [in the exercise of its public service missions], skeyes [in the exercise of its public service missions], Proximus [in the exercise of its public service missions], the National Lottery

4° associations formed by one or more public authorities referred to in 1°, 2° or 3°.

4° associations formed by one or more public authorities referred to in 1°, 2° or 3°.

2. Second condition: the communication of personal data is “necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject” (Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR) or is “necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller” (Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR)

In accordance with Article 6 of the GDPR, the communication of personal data is lawful only if, and to the extent that, at least one of the following conditions is met:

 The data subject has consented to the communication of their personal data for one or more specific purposes;  
IMPORTANT NOTE  
When public enterprises perform “purely” commercial services, and therefore do not carry out their public service missions, they are not subject to Article 20 of the LTD.

9

 The communication is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party or for the implementation of pre-contractual measures taken at their request;

 The communication is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject;

 The communication is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or another natural person;

 The communication is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller;

 The communication is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject requiring protection of personal data prevail, particularly when the data subject is a child.  
The GDPR states that this last legal basis cannot apply to processing carried out by public authorities in the performance of their missions.

Under Article 20 of the LTD, the obligation to conclude a protocol exists only when the communication of personal data from a federal public authority is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject, or when it is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller, it being understood that the legal obligation or public interest task that legitimizes the communication of personal data may exist both on the part of the data controller who communicates the personal data and on the part of the data controller who receives that data.

This requirement must be understood in light of the principle of the attribution of administrative powers, the principle of specialty of legal entities, as well as the principle of legality that governs the definition of the conditions under which the administration may interfere with the right to privacy, which includes the right to the protection of personal data. The principle of the attribution of administrative powers, which is enshrined in Article 105 of the Constitution and Article 78 of the special law of August 8, 1980 on institutional reforms, states that administrative authorities have no powers other than those formally granted to them by the Constitution and the laws and decrees enacted under it. Furthermore, the principle of

The CPVP has already emphasized this in its opinion regarding the draft law that later became the LTD. See CPVP, Opinion No. 33/2018, p. 44.
10

The specialty of legal entities stipulates that any institution endowed with legal personality can only act to achieve the purpose(s) for which it was created, it being understood that only a legislative norm can assign a public service mission to a legal entity. Furthermore, as the Council of State recalled in its opinion on the draft law "regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to the processing of personal data," "a transfer of data from one public authority to another constitutes an interference with the right to the protection of the privacy of the individuals concerned. Under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 22 of the Constitution, as interpreted by a consistent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, such interference must, in particular, be based on a legal foundation, be proportionate to the objective pursued, and be organized in a sufficiently precise manner to be predictable for the citizen." Thus, a public authority can only process – and therefore communicate – personal data if this communication is necessary for the fulfillment of an obligation imposed by or under a legislative norm on one of the data controllers or if it is necessary for the execution of a public interest mission that has been assigned to one of the data controllers by or under a legislative norm. As the CPVP emphasized in its opinion regarding the draft law "regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to the processing of personal data," communications of personal data from the public sector must be based on a legal foundation, it being understood that "an exchange protocol can never constitute the legal basis for data processing."

This constitutional requirement implies that, in the vast majority of cases, communications of personal data by public authorities are "necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject" (A) or "necessary for the execution of a public interest mission or related to the exercise of public authority vested in the data controller" (B). However, it cannot be excluded that, in certain very rare circumstances, a communication of personal data from the public sector may be based on another legal foundation provided for by Article 6 of the GDPR. Under Article 20 of the LTD, such communications must not be formalized by a protocol (C).

A. The communication of personal data is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation (Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR)

For a public authority to invoke Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR to transfer personal data, it must be obliged to do so by or under a legislative norm. This obligation must be legally valid and binding, and the public authority must therefore not have the choice to comply or not. 

14 Opinion of the Council of State No. 63.192/2 of April 19, 2018, in Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, No. 54-3126/001, pp. 421-422.  
15 CPVP, Opinion No. 33/2018, p. 44.  
16 Working Group "Article 29," Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interest pursued by the data controller within the meaning of Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, p. 21.
11

Furthermore, the legal obligation must be sufficiently clear regarding the processing of personal data that it requires. The norm imposing the legal obligation must explicitly provide for the obligation of communication and its essential modalities. The data controller should therefore not have an unjustified margin of discretion regarding how to comply with this legal obligation. In accordance with Article 6.3 of the GDPR, this norm must define the purpose or purposes of the processing.

B. The communication of personal data is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller (Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR)

For a data controller to invoke Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR to communicate personal data, it must be necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or necessary for the exercise of the official authority vested in them. However, unlike the situation referred to in Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR, it is not necessary for the data controller to be subject to a legal obligation to transfer this data.

Communications of personal data necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of the official authority vested in the data controller must, in accordance with Article 6.3 of the GDPR, have a legal basis in Union law or in the law of a Member State. This legal basis must be clear and precise, and its application must be foreseeable for the individuals concerned. It must, at a minimum, define the public interest tasks or those related to the exercise of official authority that justify the necessity of communicating personal data. The purpose of the processing must also be determined in this legal basis. This purpose or purposes must, as recalled in the preparatory works of the law of July 30, 2018, be precise and "not limited to the mention 'execution of the legal missions of the public authority'." On the other hand, it is not systematically required that the legal basis specifically prescribes data processing or data transmission for the data controller to invoke Article 6.1.e) of the GDPR as a legitimacy basis for their processing or transmission. However, it is necessary that the public interest task cannot be achieved otherwise than by processing (transferring) data. The notion of "processing necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest" has a broad scope since it encompasses not only the processing necessary for the strict execution of the public interest task but also the processing necessary for the execution of tasks directly related to this public interest task, including processing necessary for the management and functioning of the bodies responsible for this public interest task.

17 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interest pursued by the data controller within the meaning of Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, p. 22.
18 See Recital 45 of the GDPR.
19 Parl. Doc., Ch., ordinary session 2017-2018, no. 54-3126/001, p. 45.
20 Parl. Doc., Ch., ordinary session 2017-2018, no. 54-3126/001, p. 45.
21 Although the GDPR does not explicitly provide for it, the broad interpretation of the notion of "processing necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest" finds support in Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of October 23, 2018, on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the institutions, bodies, and agencies of the Union and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC.
12

Examples  
 The processing of personal data, including data communications, carried out by a public authority in the context of managing its human resources [provided that the measures taken are effectively necessary for the management of human resources].  
 The communications, by a public authority, of personal data necessary for conducting research requested by that same public authority [and which therefore falls within the scope of its public interest missions].  
 The communication, by the SPF Finance to another public or private body, of information relating to the tax situation of individuals prior to the granting, by the data recipient, of a premium, subsidy, or any other benefit granted directly or indirectly by the State, a Community, or a Region.  
 The communications of personal data by a public authority in execution of the law of May 4, 2016, on the reuse of public sector information.  
 The processing of data necessary to ensure the security of the computer network of a public authority.  

A. Other legal bases of Article 6 of the GDPR  

C. Other legal bases of Article 6 of the GDPR  

If a communication of personal data is based on a legal basis other than the execution of a legal obligation or a public interest mission, it does not fall within the material scope of Article 20 of the LTD and therefore does not need to be subject to a protocol. Although it is rare for public authorities to base their processing of personal data on one of the other legal bases of Article 6 of the GDPR, this situation cannot be completely excluded.  

where Recital 22 states that “[...]. The processing of personal data carried out for the performance of public interest missions by the institutions and bodies of the Union includes the processing of personal data necessary for the management and functioning of these institutions and bodies [...].”  
Article 328 of the C.I.R states that “The administrative services of the State, the administrations of the Communities, Regions, provinces, agglomerations, federations of municipalities, and municipalities, as well as companies, associations, establishments, or public law bodies, may not grant credits, loans, premiums, subsidies, or any other benefits based directly or indirectly on the amount of income or on elements involved in determining that income, except after having been informed of the recent tax situation of the applicant. This situation is enforceable against the applicant for the granting of said credits, loans, premiums, subsidies, or other benefits. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 also apply to companies, associations, establishments, or private law bodies, but only concerning operations directly or indirectly associated with a benefit granted by the State, a Community, or a Region.”  

IMPORTANT NOTE  
The processing of personal data deemed necessary for compliance with a legal obligation and/or necessary for the execution of a public interest mission or falling within the exercise of public authority vested in the data controller must, in accordance with Article 6.3 of the GDPR, read in light of Recital 41, be framed by regulation that is clear and precise and whose application must be foreseeable for the litigants. Furthermore, under Article 22 of the Belgian Constitution, it is necessary that the “essential elements” of the processing of data be established in a formal legislative norm (law, decree, or ordinance).  

IMPORTANT NOTE  
The Authority reminds that under Article 5.1.a) of the GDPR, public authorities must, like any data controller, ensure the lawfulness of the processing they undertake (in this case, the communication of personal data). This requirement implies, under several Belgian constitutional and administrative principles, that any communication of personal data by a public authority must have a legal basis.
13

i. The data subject has consented to the processing of their personal data for one or more specific purposes (Article 6.1.a) of the GDPR)

Without prejudice to the legal and constitutional obligations imposed on public authorities, they may only rely on consent to legitimize the processing of personal data in rare and exceptional situations. Indeed, the requirement for "freely given" consent generally prevents public authorities from basing the processing of personal data on the consent of the data subject. Since the data controller is a public authority, there is often a manifest imbalance of power between the data controller and the data subject. Furthermore, in most cases, the data subject will not have a realistic alternative to accepting the processing by the public authority and the conditions of the processing it proposes. Therefore, consent cannot be given "freely" in the sense of the GDPR. Other legal bases listed in Article 6 of the GDPR are, in principle, more suitable for the activities of public authorities. However, the legal framework of the GDPR does not entirely exclude the use of consent as a legal basis for the processing of data by public authorities.

Examples
 A public school requests the consent of its students to use their photographs in a printed student magazine. Consent would be the result of a genuine choice since students would not be deprived of any education or service and could refuse the use of these photographs without any detriment.
 A local municipality plans road maintenance work. Since the roadwork could disrupt traffic for a certain period, the municipality offers its citizens the option to sign up for an email list to be informed about the progress of the work and any expected delays. The municipality clearly states that there is no obligation to participate and requests the consent of the data subjects to use their email addresses (exclusively) for this purpose. Citizens who do not give their consent will not be deprived of any basic service from the municipality or the exercise of any rights, and are therefore free to give or refuse their consent to this processing of their data. All information about the roadwork will also be available on the municipality's website.

The Authority refers, in particular, to the constitutional principles of legality and allocation of administrative powers that govern the extent of the powers and competencies of administrative authorities. Furthermore, the Authority emphasizes the generally inappropriate nature of this legitimacy basis, given that, on the one hand, users have the right to receive the public service provided by the public authority and, on the other hand, submission to the imperium cannot be conditioned on consent. 
See Recital 43 of the GDPR which states that "To ensure that consent is given freely, it should not constitute a valid legal basis for the processing of personal data in a particular case when there is a manifest imbalance between the data subject and the data controller, particularly when the data controller is a public authority and it is unlikely that consent was given freely in light of all the circumstances of that particular situation [...]"
Working Party "Article 29", Guidelines on Consent under Regulation 2016/679, November 28, 2017, p. 7.
Working Party "Article 29", Guidelines on Consent under Regulation 2016/679, November 28, 2017, p. 7.
14

Furthermore, the Authority emphasizes that consent may, under certain circumstances, be used by public authorities, not as a legal basis for processing in the sense of Article 6 of the GDPR, but as an appropriate complementary safeguard. If applicable, the Authority considers that consent itself must be surrounded by certain guarantees: the data subject must be informed in advance and must be able to withdraw their consent at any time.

ii.  
The communication is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party or for the implementation of pre-contractual measures taken at their request (Article 6.1.b of the GDPR)

This legal basis will have limited application in the public sector, but it cannot be excluded that a public authority may rely on it to justify the processing of personal data. This is the case when the processing is strictly necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party.

Example  
The data protection authority transfers personal data concerning individuals working within it to an insurance company in order to conclude a hospitalization insurance contract for their benefit.

iii.  
The communication is necessary to safeguard the vital interests of the data subject or another natural person (Article 6.1.d of the GDPR)

This legal basis should have limited application. The expression "safeguarding vital interests" indeed limits the application of this ground to matters of life or death or, at the very least, to serious and imminent threats to the physical integrity of the data subject or another natural person.

Example  
A public hospital urgently receives a patient in critical condition (between life and death) who must be transferred to another hospital to receive necessary care (a surgery). It has the patient's medical record and transfers it to the other hospital for the surgery.

27 See, for example, the following opinions regarding the establishment and use of an electronic message exchange system between public bodies and businesses, citizens, or other public bodies (the eBox): Opinion No. 47/2018, Opinion No. 154/2019, Opinion No. 165/2019  
28 The Authority reminds once again that this is always without prejudice to the legal and constitutional obligations imposed on public authorities  
29 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interest pursued by the data controller within the meaning of Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, p. 22. See also Recital 46 of the GDPR which states that "The processing of personal data should also be considered lawful when it is necessary to protect a vital interest of the data subject or of another natural person. Processing of personal data based on the vital interest of another natural person should in principle only take place where the processing cannot be clearly based on another legal basis. Certain types of processing may be justified both by important public interest reasons and by the vital interests of the data subject, for example when processing is necessary for humanitarian purposes, including to monitor epidemics and their spread, or in cases of humanitarian emergencies, including natural and human-made disasters."
15

iv. Communication is necessary for the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, unless the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject requiring protection of personal data prevail, particularly when the data subject is a child (Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR).

The GDPR states that the pursuit of legitimate interests by the data controller or a third party cannot be used to justify processing carried out by public authorities in the performance of their public service missions. The recital 47 of the GDPR indicates that this exclusion has been provided because "it is for the legislator to lay down by law the legal basis for the processing of personal data by public authorities."

3. Third condition: the modalities of communication are not provided for by a legislative or regulatory standard.

It can be inferred from a combined reading of Article 20 of the LTD with Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012, that communications of personal data from a federal public authority to third parties, whose modalities, that is to say – at least – the purposes, categories of data, and recipients, have been provided for by a legislative or regulatory standard, do not need to be formalized by a memorandum of understanding.

Indeed, on the one hand, Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012 states that "Insofar as the information security committee issues a deliberation for the communication of personal data by the federal authority, the latter is, by way of derogation from Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, exempt from the obligation to establish a related protocol with the recipient of the personal data." It also states that "The communication of personal data by public services and public institutions of the federal authority to third parties other than social security institutions [...] must be subject to a prior deliberation of the federal authority chamber of the information security committee [...], to the extent that the data controllers of the communicating instance and the recipient instances do not reach an agreement regarding the communication in execution of Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, or at least one of these data controllers requests a deliberation and has informed the other data controllers. In the cases mentioned, the request is made jointly by the concerned data controllers. The communication referred to in the first paragraph does not need to be subject to a prior deliberation to the extent that other regulatory standards specify the modalities of the communication, including the purposes, categories of data, and recipients [...]". 

30 Article 6.1.f) of the GDPR  
31 The Authority emphasizes.
16

In other words, when a regulation explicitly stipulates who (recipient) is to receive what (specific categories of communicated data), when, and why (purposes and modalities of the communication), the communication does not need to be formalized by a protocol between the initial data controller and the recipient data controller, given that the processing is already sufficiently regulated by general legislation.

Example
Article III.31 of the Code of Economic Law states that "Any natural or legal person or entity has access, via the internet, to the data referred to in Article III.29, § 1, recorded in the Crossroads Bank for Enterprises [this data may constitute personal data if it concerns a natural person]. At least one publicly accessible website is provided, on which this data can be found in a readable format. The King determines the data thus accessible as well as the modalities of consultation." The communication of this data does not need to be subject to a memorandum of understanding between the SPF Economy, responsible for the Crossroads Bank for Enterprises, and the recipient data controller.

Counter-example
The law of May 19, 2010 establishing the Crossroads Bank for Vehicles. Although this regulation determines the purposes and conditions under which the data included in the Crossroads Bank for Vehicles may be used, this regulation is not sufficiently precise to exempt the SPF Mobility and Transport from the obligation imposed by Article 20 of the LTD to conclude a protocol to formalize the communication of this data to another data controller.

4. Fourth condition: the communication has a systematic character or, if it is occasional, takes place towards persons or institutions that are not authorized to receive them under a legal mission.

It can be deduced from a combined reading of Article 20 of the LTD with Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012 that occasional communications of personal data from a federal public authority to persons or institutions that are authorized to receive them under a legal mission do not need to be formalized by a memorandum of understanding.

Indeed, on the one hand, Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012 states that "Insofar as the information security committee issues a deliberation for the communication of personal data by the federal authority, the latter is, by way of derogation from Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, exempt from the obligation to establish a related protocol with the recipient of the personal data." However, it also states that "The communication of personal data by public services and public institutions of the federal authority to third parties other than social security institutions [...] must be subject to
17

a prior deliberation of the federal authority chamber of the information security committee [...], insofar as the data controllers of the communicating instance and the recipient instances do not reach an agreement regarding the communication, or at least one of these data controllers requests a deliberation and has informed the other data controllers. In the cases mentioned, the request is made ex officio jointly by the concerned data controllers. The communication referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be subject to a prior deliberation [...] insofar as it is a one-time communication of data, in accordance with the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 2016/679, to persons or institutions authorized to receive them under a legal mission.

In other words, if the communication of personal data occurs only on a one-time basis and is necessary for the data controller receiving the data to carry out a legal mission, it does not need to be formalized in a protocol as per Article 20 of the LTD. However, it must comply with all applicable regulations, particularly the GDPR and the LTD. A communication is one-time when it occurs only once.

A communication that is repeated, even without a fixed regularity, is not, on the other hand, a one-time communication. It must therefore be formalized by a memorandum of understanding. A fortiori, a systematic data communication must also be formalized by a memorandum of understanding between the supplying data controller and the recipient data controller. Likewise, a data communication, even if one-time, to a person or institution that is not authorized to receive them under a legal mission must also be framed by a protocol concluded between the data controllers.

5. Fifth condition: the "recipient" of the communication is located in Belgium and receives the personal data as a data controller.

A. Principle

As a reminder, Article 20 of the LTD states that "the federal public authority that transfers personal data on the basis of Article 6.1.c) and e) of the Regulation to any other public authority or private organization formalizes this transmission for each type of processing by a protocol between the initial data controller and the recipient data controller"33. It can be inferred that the recipient of the communication, which can therefore be another public authority or a private organization, must also comply with the aforementioned requirements. 

32 The Authority emphasizes.  
33 The Authority emphasizes.
18

private organization must receive the data as the data controller, and not as a processor.

This interpretation is further confirmed by Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012, which provides that only communications to "third parties," that is to say, "entities other than the data subject, the data controller, the processor, and the persons authorized to process personal data under the direct authority of the data controller or the processor," must be subject to prior deliberation by the federal authority chamber of the information security committee, to the extent that the data controllers of the communicating entity and the recipient entities do not reach an agreement regarding the communication or at least one of these data controllers requests a deliberation and has informed the other data controllers.

Thus, data communications to a processor do not need to be formalized by a protocol in the sense of Article 20 of the LTD. However, they must, as a reminder, be "governed by a contract or another legal act under Union law or the law of a Member State, which binds the processor to the data controller, defines the subject matter and duration of the processing, the nature and purpose of the processing, the type of personal data and the categories of data subjects, and the obligations and rights of the data controller," in accordance with Article 28 of the GDPR. If the data communication takes place to a processor established in a third country (i.e., outside the European Economic Area), it is also necessary for the data controller to comply with the conditions of Chapter V of the GDPR and, where applicable, provide "appropriate safeguards" to frame the transfer.

NOTE REGARDING DATA COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN JOINT DATA CONTROLLERS
The Authority emphasizes that if two data controllers "jointly determine the purposes and means of processing," they are joint controllers in the sense of Article 26 of the GDPR. In this case, Article 26 of the GDPR requires them to define "their respective obligations transparently in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of this regulation, particularly regarding the exercise of the rights of the data subject, and their respective obligations concerning the communication of the information referred to in Articles 13 and 14, by way of an agreement between them, unless, and to the extent, that their respective obligations are defined by Union law or by the law of the Member State to which the data controllers are subject." Joint data controllers do not need to conclude a protocol in the sense of Article 20 of the LTD to formalize the data communications that occur within the framework of the processing for which they are jointly responsible.
19

B. The flows excluded from the scope of Article 20 of the LTD

i.  
The flows between police services as defined in Article 2, 2°, of the law of December 7, 1998, organizing a structured police service organized at two levels

Article 19 of the LTD states that Articles 20 to 23 of the LTD apply to police services as defined in Article 2, 2°, of the law of December 7, 1998, organizing a structured police service organized at two levels, and that these services are considered as a single public authority. It follows that communications between one police service and another do not constitute a communication between two distinct public authorities. Rather, it is an "internal" communication, which does not need to be formalized by a protocol in the sense of Article 20 of the LTD.

ii.  
The flows to intelligence and security services and the authorities referred to in Subtitle 3 of Title 3 of the LTD

Article 5 of the LTD states that "the definitions of the Regulation apply." However, as pointed out by the Council of State in its opinion, the intelligence and security services and the authorities referred to in Subtitle 3 of Title 3 of the LTD are not "recipients" in the sense of Article 4.9 of the GDPR. Therefore, data communications to these services do not fall within the scope of Article 20 of the LTD, which addresses the "initial data controller" and the "data recipient controller."

iii.  
The flows to social security institutions referred to in Article 2, paragraph 1, 2°, b) to f), of the law of January 15, 1990, relating to the establishment and organization of a crossroad bank of social security, that is to say, to institutions belonging to the secondary network of social security.

Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012, states that "the communication of personal data by federal public authorities to social security institutions referred to in Article 2, paragraph 1, 2°, b) to f), of the law of January 15, 1990, relating to the establishment and organization of a crossroad bank of social security must be subject to a prior deliberation of the joint chambers of the information security committee." It further adds that "insofar as the information security committee issues a deliberation for the communication of personal data by the federal authority, the latter is, by way of derogation from Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018, relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, exempt from the obligation to establish a related protocol with the recipient of the personal data."

34 Subtitle 3 of Title 3 is dedicated to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data within the framework of the law of December 11, 1998, relating to classification and security clearances, attestations, and opinions.  
35 Opinion of the Council of State No. 63.192/2 of April 19, 2018, in Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, No. 54-3126/001, p. 418.  
36 The Authority emphasizes. The preparatory works of the LTD confirm this since it is stated that "regarding the category of recipients, it must be reiterated, as noted by the Council of State in its opinion, page 18, that the intelligence and security services and the authorities referred to in Subtitle 3 of Title 3 are not recipients, in the sense of the definition of the Regulation. The processing of this data by these authorities thus aligns with the applicable data protection rules based on the purposes of the processing. Therefore, the intelligence and security services and the authorities referred to in Subtitle 3 of Title 3 are excluded from mention in the protocol."
20

A combined reading of Article 20 of the LTD with this provision leads to the conclusion that the communication of personal data to social security institutions referred to in Article 2, paragraph 1, 2°, b) to f) of the law of January 15, 1990, that is, the social security institutions belonging to the secondary network, should not be framed by a protocol in the sense of Article 20 of the LTD. These flows must, however, be authorized by the Information Security Committee.

These communications are directed towards the following institutions:

 cooperative social security institutions, that is, private law bodies, other than the employer's social secretariats and the pricing offices of pharmacist associations, authorized to collaborate in the application of social security;

 the existence security funds established, under the law of January 7, 1958, by collective labor agreements concluded within the joint committees and made mandatory by the King, insofar as they grant complementary benefits referred to in 1°, letter f of the law of January 15, 1990;

 the persons designated by the social security institutions referred to in a), b) and c) to maintain an updated special directory of persons referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2, 2°; of the law of January 15, 1990;

 the State, the Communities, the Regions, and the public institutions referred to in Article 18 of the coordinated laws relating to family allowances for salaried workers, regarding their missions concerning family allowances for their personnel;

 public social action centers insofar as they are responsible for the application of social security within the meaning of the law of January 15, 1990.

On the other hand, the communication of personal data by federal public services and public institutions of the federal authority to social security institutions belonging to the primary network of social security must, in principle, be formalized in a protocol in the sense of Article 20 of the LTD.

37 Article 35/1, § 1, paragraph 3, of the law of August 15, 2012 states that if "the data controllers of the instance that communicates and the recipient instances do not reach an agreement regarding the communication in execution of Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018, relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, or [if] at least one of these data controllers requests a deliberation and has informed the other data controllers," the communication will be subject to prior deliberation by the joint chambers of the Information Security Committee.

38 Article 35/1, § 1, paragraph 3, of the law of August 15, 2012. The primary network of social security consists of public social security institutions, other than the Crossroads Bank for Social Security, and federal public services responsible for the application of social security.

21

iv. 
Flows to Foreign Countries

The preparatory works of Article 20 of the LTD indicate that the obligation to conclude a protocol to formalize data communications from federal public authorities cannot be imposed for flows to foreign countries. The preparatory works justify this exclusion by referring to Article 1 of the GDPR39, which states that "The free movement of personal data within the Union is neither limited nor prohibited for reasons related to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data." Thus, data communications to countries in the European Economic Area cannot be conditioned on the conclusion of a protocol between the initial data controller and the data recipients. However, it remains that the data controllers involved in a communication of personal data must ensure that this communication complies with all applicable regulations, particularly the GDPR.

Furthermore, if public authorities wish to transfer personal data to a third country (i.e., outside the European Economic Area) or to an international organization, it is necessary that they comply with the conditions imposed by Chapter V of the GDPR and, where applicable, provide appropriate safeguards.

39 Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, n° 54-3126/001, p. 44.
22

SUMMARY SCHEME CONCERNING THE FORMALITIES TO BE COMPLETED FOR FRAMEWORKING THE COMMUNICATION OF PERSONAL DATA IN THE FIELD OF SOCIAL SECURITY

Source of the communication

Recipient of the communication

Prior deliberation or protocol?  
Chamber competent within the information security committee  
Source  
Social security institution or BCSS  
Social security institution  
Prior deliberation mandatory  
Social security and health chamber  
Art. 15 § 1 of the law of January 15, 1990  
Social security institution or BCSS  
Instance other than a SPF, SPP, or an OIP  
Prior deliberation mandatory  
Social security and health chamber  
Art. 15 § 1 of the law of January 15, 1990  
Social security institutions that belong to the primary network or BCSS  
SPF, SPP, or OIP, other than a social security institution  
A deliberation is only mandatory if the instance communicating, the recipient instance, and the BCSS fail to conclude a protocol or if one of the parties requests it and has informed the others  
Joint chambers  
Art. 15 § 2 of the law of January 15, 1990  
Social security institutions, other than those belonging to the primary network  
SPF, SPP, or OIP, other than a social security institution  
Prior deliberation mandatory  
Joint chambers  
Art. 15 § 2 of the law of January 15, 1990  
SPF and public institutions of the Federal Authority  
Social security institutions that belong to the primary network  
A deliberation is only mandatory if the instance communicating, the recipient instance, and the BCSS fail to conclude a protocol or if one of the parties requests it and has informed the others  
Joint chambers  
Art. 35/1, § 1, al. 3, of the law of August 15, 2012  
SPF and public institutions of the Federal Authority  
Social security institutions, other than those belonging to the primary network  
Prior deliberation mandatory  
Joint chambers  
Art. 35/1, § 1, al. 4, of the law of August 15, 2012

23

Social security institution: concept defined in Article 2 of the law of January 15, 1990, relating to the establishment and organization of a Crossroads Bank for Social Security.  
BCSS: Crossroads Bank for Social Security  
SPF: Federal Public Service  
SPP: Federal Programming Service  
OIP: Public Interest Organization  
Social security institutions that belong to the primary network: public social security institutions, other than the Crossroads Bank for Social Security, and federal public services responsible for the application of social security [ONSS, INSATI, INAMI, OCM, Federal Pension Service, FAMIFED, FEDRIS, FAT, ONEM, ONVA, SPF Social Security, SPF Employment, Labor and Social Consultation, National Inter-Mutualist College, Federal Programming Service for Social Integration]

IMPORTANT GENERAL NOTE  
Any communication of personal data must comply with the applicable regulations, particularly the GDPR and the LTD. Thus, data controllers must always ensure that the communication complies with this regulation, even if this communication does not require a protocol between the initial data controller and the recipient data controller under Article 20 of the LTD.

It follows, in particular, that the communication of data must be based on one of the legal bases mentioned in Article 6 of the GDPR since, in accordance with Article 5.1.a) of the GDPR, personal data must be processed lawfully, fairly, and transparently concerning the data subject. The initial data controller must ensure that this is the case before proceeding with the communication.

Furthermore, Article 5.1.b) of the GDPR requires that data be collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes and that they are not processed further in a manner incompatible with those purposes. The initial data controller must therefore also verify that the purpose of the further processing is not incompatible with that of the initial processing.

Moreover, in accordance with Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, the personal data processed must be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary concerning the purposes for which they are processed. The initial data controller must therefore ensure that the transferred data complies with the principle of data minimization.

Finally, and generally, the data controllers involved in the communication of data must implement "appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing is carried out in accordance with the [GDPR]," including regarding the security of the transferred data.

40 Article 24 of the GDPR.  
41 See the developments preceding the bill establishing the information security committee and amending various laws concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, no. 54-3185/001, p. 63.
24 

II. 
The content of the memorandum of understanding 

Article 20 § 1 of the LTD law mentions an optional and non-exhaustive content for the memorandum of understanding42 as it reads as follows: “[…] This memorandum may provide in particular:  
1° the identification of the federal public authority transferring the personal data and that of the recipient;  
2° the identification of the data controller within the public authority transferring the data and within the recipient;  
3° the contact details of the data protection officers concerned within the public authority transferring the data as well as the recipient;  
4° the purposes for which the personal data are transferred;  
5° the categories of personal data transferred and their format;  
6° the categories of recipients;  
7° the legal basis for the transfer;  
8° the method of communication used;  
9° any specific measures governing the transfer in accordance with the principle of proportionality and the requirements of data protection by design and by default;  
10° the legal restrictions applicable to the rights of the data subject;  
11° the modalities of the rights of the data subjects with the recipient;  
12° the frequency of the transfer;  
13° the duration of the memorandum;  
14° the sanctions applicable in case of non-compliance with the memorandum, without prejudice to Title 6”43.  

The optional nature of the content of the agreement has been criticized both by the CPVP44 and by the Council of State45 in their respective opinions regarding the draft law "on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data." The Council of State emphasized that the fact that the draft law which became the LTD “does not sufficiently precisely state the various elements that these protocols must cover” undermines the requirement of legality that is imposed in cases of interference with the right to respect for private life46. The Authority also insisted that the legislator provide for the mandatory (and not optional) elements of the protocol47. The Authority notes that the legislator did not follow this recommendation. 

42 For the sake of completeness, the Authority emphasizes that this choice by the federal legislator in favor of optional and non-exhaustive content differs from that made by the Flemish legislator. Indeed, Article 8 of the Flemish Decree of July 18, 2008, on the electronic exchange of administrative data states that "Any electronic communication of personal data by one authority to another authority or to an external authority requires a protocol concluded between the concerned authorities. In any case, this protocol provides for the following: [list of the various elements that must be included in the protocol]."  
43 The Authority emphasizes  
44 CPVP, Opinion No. 33/2018, p. 46.  
45 Opinion of the Council of State No. 63.192/2 of April 19, 2018, in Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, No. 54-3126/001, p. 422.  
46 Opinion of the Council of State No. 63.192/2 of April 19, 2018, in Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, No. 54-3126/001, p. 422.  
47 CPVP, Opinion No. 33/2018, p. 46.
25

However, it should not be inferred that the data controllers would be completely free to determine, without any legal constraints, the content of the protocol they conclude to formalize a data communication from the public sector. The requirements of the GDPR and the LTD regarding the conditions under which personal data may be communicated to third parties must guide the data controllers when concluding the protocol. It is important, in this regard, to recall that Article 24 of the GDPR imposes on the data controller the obligation to implement "appropriate technical and organizational measures [considering the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing as well as the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons] to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing is carried out in accordance with this Regulation." By adopting the protocol, data controllers must ensure that the communication of personal data is carried out in accordance with the GDPR. In this context, the Authority recommends that the protocol should, in principle, include the following elements:

 The identification of the public authority transferring the personal data and the data controller receiving the data, as well as the contact details of their data protection officers;

 The specific purposes for which the data were originally collected by the public authority, the purposes for which the data are transferred, and the analysis of the compatibility of these purposes if the data communication constitutes further processing, that is, if the data communication pursues one or more purposes different from those for which they were originally collected. However, this compatibility analysis will not be necessary if the further processing is "based [...] on the law of a Member State which constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to guarantee the objectives referred to in Article 23.1 [of the GDPR]" and the relevant regulation is sufficiently clear, precise, and predictable for the individuals concerned;

 The specific types of personal data transferred, in order to allow data controllers to ensure compliance with the principle of proportionality;

 The legal basis that underpins the communication of personal data by the public authority transferring the data and the legal basis that underpins the reception by the data controller receiving the data. Most often, this will involve indicating what the legal obligation and/or specific public interest mission pursued by the transferring data controller and the receiving data controller is;

 The means of communication used and a functional definition of the security measures adopted to secure the transmission of the data;

26

 Where applicable, any specific measures taken by the data controllers to frame the communication in accordance with the principle of proportionality and the requirements of data protection by design and by default (choice of communication format, logging of access in such a way that it is possible to know who accessed what, when, and why, establishment of a reference directory in case of automatic communication of data updates to ensure that the necessary data is updated for the necessary duration, ...);

 The frequency of the communication;

 The duration of the protocol;

 The applicable sanctions in case of non-compliance with the protocol, without prejudice to Title 6 of the LTD.
27

III. 
Procedural Elements

Article 20 of the LTD sets forth two procedural obligations for the conclusion of protocols:

 DPOs must be involved in the drafting of the protocol (Article 20 § 2 of the LTD)

Article 20 § 2 of the LTD states that "The protocol is adopted after the respective opinions of the data protection officer of the federal public authority holding the personal data and the recipient. These opinions are annexed to the protocol. When at least one of these opinions is not followed by the data controllers, the protocol mentions, in its introductory provisions, the reason or reasons why this or these opinions were not followed."

 Protocols must be published on the websites of the various data controllers (Article 20 § 3 of the LTD)

Article 20 § 3 of the LTD states that "The protocol is published on the website of the relevant data controllers." This obligation appears to follow a remark made by both the CPVP48 and the Council of State in their respective opinions49, which each emphasized that protocols organize an interference in the private lives of citizens and that it is therefore appropriate for them to be accessible – and thus published – to ensure predictability of communications of personal data.

The CPVP requested that the protocols be published in the Belgian Official Gazette, but the legislator chose the route of the websites of the data controllers. The objective is thus to ensure broad visibility50.

 The possibility of adopting "standard protocols" or "general protocols"
The Authority recently adopted a recommendation in which it determines the conditions under which the data controllers involved in a communication of personal data may resort to "standard protocols" or "general protocols"51. While the Authority does not exclude these possibilities, it reminds that these protocols must necessarily be concluded in compliance with the legal requirements mentioned in Article 20, §§ 2 and 3 of the LTD.

48 CPVP, Opinion No. 33/2018, p. 46.

49 Opinion of the Council of State No. 63.192/2 of April 19, 2018, in Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, No. 54-3126/001, p. 424.
50 Doc. Parl., Ch., ord. sess. 2017-2018, No. 54-3126/001, p. 46.
51 APD, Recommendation No. 02/2019 of October 18, 2019.
28

IV. 
Temporal Scope of the Obligation to Conclude a Memorandum of Understanding

Article 281 of the LTD states that "This law shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Belgian Official Gazette. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, Article 20 shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of six months starting from the day after the publication of this law in the Belgian Official Gazette." The LTD was published in the Belgian Official Gazette on September 5, 2018, and thus entered into force on that date, with the exception of Article 20, which entered into force on April 1, 2019.

In the preparatory work preceding the adoption of Article 281 of the LTD, the legislator justifies the existence of an additional period for the entry into force of Article 20 of the LTD by emphasizing that "the application of [Article 20 of the LTD] from the entry into force of [the LTD] would imply that public administrations that do not have a protocol for new processing carried out directly after the entry into force would be in violation of this law. In order to allow public administrations to adopt the protocol for these new processing activities, a reasonable period is provided for compliance." This justification reveals that, in the eyes of the legislator, it is essentially the new processing activities that are subject to the protocol obligation. Thus, there is no doubt that, since April 1, 2019, all new communications of personal data that fall within the scope of Article 20 of the LTD must, in principle, be formalized by a protocol between the initial data controller and the data recipient controller.

Communications of personal data that were established under the law of December 8, 1992, do not, in principle, require a protocol to be concluded between the initial data controller and the data recipient controller. According to Article 36bis of the law of December 8, 1992, the following applies:

The Authority emphasizes.  
In principle, unless the data controllers fail to reach an agreement regarding the communication or at least one of these controllers requests a deliberation from the information security committee and has informed the others, in which case the communication will be subject to prior deliberation by the information security committee. In such a situation, the public authority is, by way of derogation from Article 20 of the LTD, exempt from the obligation to establish a related protocol with the recipient of the personal data (Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012). Furthermore, Article 35/1 of the law of August 15, 2012, also provides for other exceptions to the obligation to conclude a protocol: (1) communications from a federal public authority to third parties other than social security institutions do not need to be deliberated to the extent that a legislative or regulatory standard specifies the modalities of the communication, including its purposes, categories of data, and recipients; and (2) the communication is one-off, complies with the GDPR, and occurs to persons or institutions authorized to receive them under a legal mandate. 

The Information Security Committee considered that as long as Article 20 of the LTD had not entered into force, it had to authorize all communications of personal data from a federal public authority to third parties since it was not yet possible to formalize this communication in a memorandum of understanding (See, for example, deliberation No. 19/007 of March 5, 2019 (where § 9 states that "The Committee emphasizes that Article 20 of the law of July 30, 2018, concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data (hereinafter 'LTD') does not enter into force until April 1, 2019. Therefore, the condition as provided in Article 35/1 of the aforementioned law of August 15, 2012, cannot yet be satisfied. The communication of data by the General Directorate of Mobility and Road Safety of the Federal Public Service Mobility and Transport therefore requires a deliberation based on Article 35/1 of the aforementioned law of August 15, 2012"). 

One can draw a parallel with the obligation to conduct a data protection impact assessment, which the "Article 29 Working Party" and the former Privacy Protection Commission considered only applies to existing processing operations if the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons change after May 25, 2018, for example, because a new technology is employed or because personal data is used for another purpose (see Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and how).
29

December 1992, “[...] any electronic communication of personal data by a federal public service or by a public body with legal personality that falls under federal authority, [required] a principle authorization from this sectoral committee unless the communication had already been subject to a principle authorization from another sectoral committee established within the Commission for the Protection of Privacy [...]”56. Therefore, all existing communications have, in principle, been authorized by a sectoral committee established with the former Commission for the Protection of Privacy. However, under Article 111 of the law of December 3, 2017, these authorizations “retain their legal validity”57. Article 111 of the law of December 3, 2017 further provides that it is still possible to adhere to a general authorization that had been granted by deliberation of a sectoral committee, provided that “the applicant for adherence [submits] a written and signed commitment declaration [to the Information Security Committee] in which he confirms adherence to the conditions of the deliberation in question, without prejudice to the control powers that the Data Protection Authority may exercise […]”. It follows that data controllers who transfer personal data in accordance with the modalities that had been authorized by a sectoral committee of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy before May 25, 2018, may continue to rely on this authorization and do not need to frame this data communication by a protocol in the sense of Article 20 of the LTD, as long as there is no substantial modification of the modalities of the communication compared to those that had been provided in this authorization. Indeed, Article 20 of the LTD provides that the obligation to conclude a protocol only applies in the absence of “other provisions in specific laws”.

But what about communications that should have been authorized by a sectoral committee but were not because the data controller did not request the authorization from the competent sectoral committee? Clearly, the data controllers involved cannot rely on either an authorization issued by the former sectoral committees or on Article 111 of the law of December 3, 2017, which, while maintaining the legal validity of these authorizations, allows for derogation from Article 20 of the LTD. It follows that these communications must be subject to a protocol between the initial data controller and the recipient data controller (provided, of course, that they fall within the material scope of Article 20 of the LTD).

to determine whether the processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, April 4, 2017, p. 16; CPVP, Recommendation No. 01/2018 of February 28, 2018, p. 37).  
56 Article 36bis of the law of December 8, 1992  
57 The law of December 3, 2017 came into force on May 25, 2018.

30

GRAPHICAL SUMMARY OF THE TEMPORAL APPLICATION OF THE OBLIGATION TO CONCLUDE A PROTOCOL TO FORMALIZE DATA COMMUNICATIONS FROM FEDERAL PUBLIC AUTHORITIES [FALLING UNDER THE SCOPE OF THE FORMER ARTICLE 36BIS OF THE LAW OF DECEMBER 8, 1992]

Data communication from a federal public authority...
established after April 1, 2019
Art. 20 of the LTD is in effect: formalization of the communication by a protocol
established between September 10, 2018, and April 1, 2019
Art. 20 LTD was not (yet) in effect, but the law establishing the CSI had come into force: the communication had to be subject to a prior deliberation of the CSI
established before May 25, 2018
Was the communication authorized as such by a sectoral committee? yes
yes
The authorization is still valid [as long as there is no substantial modification] no
no
Formalization of the communication by a protocol
established between May 25, 2018, and September 10, 2018
Neither Art. 20 of the LTD nor the law establishing the CSI had come into effect: no particular formality needed to be fulfilled
May 25, 2018: repeal of the provision of the law of December 8, 1992, which established the sectoral committee for the federal authority
September 10, 2018: entry into force of the law establishing the CSI
April 1, 2019: entry into force of Article 20 of the LTD
31

V. What if the data controllers fail to conclude a protocol to formalize the communication of personal data?

1. Principle: Deliberation of the federal authority chamber of the information security committee

If the initial data controller and the recipient data controller do not reach an agreement regarding the communication, or if at least one of these data controllers requests a deliberation and has informed the other data controllers, Article 35/1, § 1, paragraph 1, of the law of August 15, 2012, provides that the said communication must be subject to prior deliberation by the federal authority chamber of the information security committee referred to in the law of September 5, 2018. The communication of data may therefore be carried out without the initial data controller and the recipient data controller having to conclude a protocol.

2. Exceptions: No need for deliberation (nor protocol)

Article 35/1, § 1, paragraph 2, of the law of August 15, 2012, provides, however, that the communication does not need to be subject to prior deliberation:

 When regulatory standards specify the modalities of the communication, including the purposes, categories of data, and recipients, or
 When it is a one-time communication of data, in accordance with the aforementioned Regulation (EU) 2016/679, to persons or institutions authorized to receive them under a legal mandate.

3. Special case regarding communications from the federal public sector to social security institutions belonging to the primary network: Deliberation of the joint chambers of the information security committee

Article 35/1, § 1, paragraph 3, of the law of August 15, 2012, provides that the communication of personal data by federal public authorities to social security institutions that belong to the primary social security network must be subject to prior deliberation by the joint chambers of the information security committee, to the extent that the data controllers of the communicating entity, the recipient entity, and the Crossroads Bank for Social Security do not reach an agreement regarding the communication, or at least one of these data controllers requests a deliberation and has informed the other data controllers.

58 These are the institutions referred to in Article 2, paragraph 1, 2°, a), of the law of January 15, 1990: "the public social security institutions, other than the Crossroads Bank, as well as the federal public services responsible for the application of social security."