 

Case No. 9767/2018

AUTHORIZATION No. 7178/ 2018

Restaurilimpa - Comércio de Bens e Prestação de Serviços, Lda. notified the National Commission of
Data Protection (CNPD) a processing of personal data, resulting from the use of
geolocation devices in vehicles in the work context for fleet management purposes in
external service.

The geolocation of vehicles is carried out within the scope of the transport of goods.

The following categories of data are treated: vehicle geolocation data; data relating to
vehicle identification; worker identification data.

There is recourse to external processing of the
CONSULTORIA INFORMÁTICA, S.A.

information, carried out by the company

INOSAT

The controller declared that the security measures are in place
provided for in articles 14 and 15 of Law no. 67/98, of 26 October, amended by Law no. 103/2015,
of August 24 – Personal Data Protection Law (LPD) and those specifically arising from the
Deliberation No. 7680/2014 of the CNPD.

He also stated that there is no Workers' Commission for the purposes of pronouncement under the terms of the
no. 4 of article 21 of the Labor Code (CT).

The controller also stated that the data processing notified and here
under analysis complies with the limits and conditions established in Deliberation no. 7680/2014 of the CNPD.

The CNPD has already commented, in its Deliberation 7680/2014, of 28 October, on the principles
applicable to the processing of personal data resulting from the use of
geolocation in the work context.

There, he analyzes in detail the potential of geolocation technologies, their use by
employers and the impact they may have on workers' privacy, as well as
the provisions
laws applicable to these processing of personal data, establishing
consequently, the precepts that frame the use of geolocation devices in
vehicles and the requirements to carry out the processing of personal data resulting therefrom in
compliance with the law.

To the extent that a person's location and movement history are given
relating to privacy, they are in the nature of sensitive data, pursuant to paragraph 1 of article
7 of the LPD, and may be processed, namely when there is an enabling legal provision.

On the other hand, geolocation technologies allow, in the work context, to monitor
workers remotely, so they configure a means of remote surveillance, such as



provided for in article 20 of the CT, whose use can only occur for the purpose of protecting people and
goods or when particular requirements inherent to the nature of the activity that
justify it.

The processing of personal data under consideration here is precisely part of the legal conditions
listed above, so its legitimacy is based on the combined provisions of paragraph 2 of article
7 of the LPD and no. 2 of article 20 of the CT.

Personal data processed in accordance with subparagraph c) of the
no. 1 of article 5 of the LPD, for the stated purposes, which are specific and legitimate, in
in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph b) of paragraph 1 of article 5 of the LPD.

In compliance with the principles of transparency and good faith, the controller is
obliged to inform workers in advance of the existence of
geolocation in the vehicles that it makes available to them for the exercise of their professional activity and/or
for personal use, in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 10 of the LPD.

Pursuant to and on the grounds set out in Deliberation No. 7680/2014, the person responsible
obliged to comply with the following specific conditions for the processing of data:

 The person responsible for the treatment must make available to the CNPD, workers and
representatives, a detailed description of geolocation technologies by
used, containing an objective description of their operation and which
concrete procedures adopted in compliance with this authorization (No. 126);

 Personal data arising from the use of geolocation devices cannot
be used to monitor worker performance or for any other purpose.
purpose, with the controller responsible for taking the necessary measures,
including by contractual means with the subcontracted entity and with its
employees themselves, to ensure that there is no deviation from the stated purpose (Nos 52,
86, 104, 114);

 Whenever there is internal processing of information, it should not be carried out
by the human resources department, but by those who are most suitable
the pursuit of the ends in view, except in situations where the size of the entities is not
demonstrably allow this unambiguous separation (nos. 112 to 114);

 Whenever there is subcontracting of services, the controller must
choose an entity that gives you sufficient guarantees of compliance with the measures
required techniques. Treatment operations must be regulated by a contract,
and the controller must give precise instructions allowing the processing to be carried out.
processing of data under the required conditions, cf. article 14 of the LPD (nos. 115 and 116);

 Personal data must be rendered non-identifiable within 1 (one) week,
the controller must take the necessary measures to ensure that



result, including with entities subcontracted for the provision of the service, which
must make the reports available in a way that does not allow the
identification of
workers (nº 95, 98 and 100);

 After the non-identification procedure, the processing of information is admissible
statistics, provided that this is not of a discriminatory nature in relation to the
workers (nº 98);

 When the vehicle is being used for private purposes, there can be no knowledge and
monitoring of your geolocation, so the controller is
obliged to adopt a technical solution that allows the worker to trigger a mechanism
(when you enter private mode) that makes the information about your geolocation
inaccessible to the employer (unless a theft occurs) and re-opened
when to resume professional activity (n.ºs 140, 141, 142, 144, 148);

 Appropriate measures must be taken to prevent access to information by persons
unauthorized access, and specific access profiles must be established in accordance with the
processing purposes, as well as individual user accounts that allow
uniquely identify the individual (nos. 130 to 132);

 All access to data generated by geolocation devices must be
duly registered, through logs, that identify who, when and what they accessed,
which must be kept for a period of 90 days (nos. 133 to 135).

Thus, on the basis of Resolution No. 7680/2014, under the conditions determined above and
pursuant to the combined provisions of paragraph 2 of article 7, paragraph a) of paragraph 1 of article 28.
and paragraph 1 of article 20 of the LPD, the CNPD authorizes the following processing of personal data:

Responsible for
treatment

Restaurilimpa - Comércio de Bens e Prestação de Serviços, Lda.

Goal

fleet management in external service

Categories of processed data

Vehicle geolocation data; data relating to
identification of
identification of
workers.

vehicle; data from

shelf life
of the data

1 (one) week

data communication to
the 3rd

there is not, without prejudice to the communication to the competent authorities in
car theft case

data interconnections

There is not



Exercise of the right to
access

Lisbon, 24-05-2018

The president

 

Filipa Calvão

 

By written request
responsible, in the following
address/contact: Estrada Nacional 242, Bairro Nunes, n.º 3, 1.º
2460-108 Alfeizerão

next to the

 

