Case number:

NAIH / 2019/3854

Object:

decision
ex officio
starting
privacy
official
procedure

The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter: the Authority) a
Directorate of Social and Child Welfare Institutions of Ferencváros (1096 Budapest, Lenhossék
utca 7-9) (hereinafter: the Obligated) on March 8, 2019 at 6:30 p.m.
the official investigation initiated on 28 March 2019 in connection with the data protection incident a
it is closed today due to the circumstances revealed during the inspection
in the data protection authority proceedings
decision.
The Authority
1.

2.
3.

4.

notes that the Debtor is involved in documents sent to the wrong address
in connection with a data protection incident (hereinafter: data protection incident)
with regard to the processing of personal data by natural persons
the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
The obligation to notify under Article 33 (1);
due to the above violation, the Debtor shall be notified within 30 days from the receipt of this decision
within HUF 100,000, ie HUF 100,000, to pay a data protection fine;
instructs the Debtor to comply with this decision within 30 days of its finalization
take the necessary steps to ensure a possible future
reporting a data protection incident in Article 33 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
be completed within the prescribed time limits; and
order the final decision by publishing the identity of the controller
disclosure.

The fine is accounted for by the Authority's forint settlement account for the collection of centralized revenues
(10032000-01040425-00000000 Centralized direct debit account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104
0425 0000 0000) must be paid by bank transfer. When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2019/3854
JUDGE. number should be referred to.
The measures provided for in point 3 shall be taken by the Debtor from the date of taking the measure
must provide written confirmation, together with the supporting evidence, within
Towards an authority.
If the Debtor fails to meet its obligation to pay the fine within the time limit,
is required to pay a late payment allowance. The rate of the late payment allowance is the statutory interest, which is a
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the calendar half-year affected by the delay. THE
the Authority's centralized revenue collection forint account
(10032000-01040425-00000000 Centralized direct debit).

Failure to comply with the obligation under point 3 and non-payment of fines and penalties for late payment
In the event of payment, the Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision, the fine and the penalty payment.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but it has been available since its notification
Within 30 days, an action brought before the Metropolitan Court may be challenged in an administrative lawsuit. THE
the application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, together with the case file
forward it to the court. The request for a hearing must be indicated in the application. The entire
for those who do not benefit from personal exemption, the fee for the judicial review procedure
HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material taxes. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.
IND O K O L ÁS
I.

Facts, history

In connection with the data protection incident reported by the Debtor, the Authority - the general
Data Protection Regulation 33-34. 28 March 2019 on the obligations set out in Article
decided to initiate an official inspection in case number NAIH / 2019/2993 on the same day,
an order clarifying the facts in order to clarify and supplement the information contained in the notification
sent to the Debtor, whose reply dated 8 April 2019 was received on 11 April 2019
to the Authority.
The incident report and the reply to the fact-finding order show that the
the data protection incident took place in such a way that one of the Debtor's employees mistakenly
mailed a document containing personal data to the wrong recipient, Újpest
To the Social Institution of its municipality, which sees the same task prescribed by law
in other areas of jurisdiction. The personal data contained in the documents thereby
unauthorized access by the wrong recipient, thus violating the confidentiality of the data. The
privacy incident 18 affected customers of the Debtor and their families, including minors
personal data: identification data, contact details, criminal record,
data related to criminal offenses or punishment, measure, social identity
procedures for the protection of children by the Debtor
other personal data processed in the context of their privacy.
The privacy incident occurred on February 7, 2019, when it was mailed a
documents to the wrong recipient. Wrong recipient after arrival on February 12, 2019
informed the Debtor by telephone that documents had been served on him,
which he is not the addressee of, then took action on the erroneously sent personal data
return of documents containing Shipments for the Debtor are February 2019
Returned on the 20th, the Defendant's position was that the erroneous mailing had become certain at that time, so
the Debtor considered this date to be known (February 20, 2019, 12 noon 0 minutes). The
to report a data protection incident to the Authority on 8 March 2019 at 6 pm
took place on the 16th day, ie on the 16th day following the acquisition of information indicated by the Debtor. THE
Debtor justified the late filing on the grounds that he was a senior official
the returned consignment was not forwarded to him as it was dated 28 February 2019
the Annual Child Protection Alert System Meeting organized by the Debtor,
the organization of which is part of the basic task specified in the Obligated Legislation
closely linked. In view of this, and the fact that the wrong addressee himself is similar
the body performing the tasks only with other competencies, the Debtor primarily in his opinion
performed other tasks without delay and thus only to report the privacy incident
it took place after that.
2

On 8 March 2019, the Debtor filed a lawsuit against the data protection incident
risk analysis provided by the European Union Network and Information Security Agency
based on its methodological guidelines. The risk analysis took into account that the wrong consignee,
who may have obtained the personal data of the Újpest Municipality Social Unauthorized
It was an institution for which collegiality or the fact that it was identical in activity
considered a risk mitigating factor. In addition, he also took into account the documents
Returned to the Debtor “intact” and that, although the scope of the data is significant, it
only a few, up to two people, got to know their colleagues and also Social Work
They are subject to a Code of Ethics and are therefore bound by professional secrecy. As a result of the analysis, a
Defendant found that the incident was of medium risk.
In order to remedy the data protection incident, the Debtor has introduced double addressing control and
measures to maintain emergency privacy training. The Debtor held that on this
measures are sufficient in view of the identity of the wrong addressee (which he sees in another area of competence
the same tasks and whose staff are bound by professional secrecy) and that the
returned incorrectly sent items “intact” to the Debtor.
The Debtor considered that it was not necessary to inform the parties concerned, given that:
has taken further measures following the data protection incident to ensure that
the high risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subject is unlikely to continue
is realized. As such a measure, it considered that the consignments had been returned to the
by wrong recipient. In any case, the Debtor considered the data protection incident
medium risk, ie not high risk, in which case it would oblige those concerned
to inform.
The Debtor is an independently operating and managed local government budget institution,
of which the IX. District Ferencváros Municipality
to take care of.1
The Authority closed the inspection and, as it found an infringement within its competence, initiated
the official procedure in which it took this decision.
II.

Applicable legal provisions

CL of 2016 on General Administrative Procedure. (hereinafter: the Act)
the authority, within the limits of its competence, checks the provisions of the law
compliance with the provisions of this Regulation and the enforcement of the enforceable decision.
He is involved in the reported incident pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the general data protection regulation applies to data processing.
Article 4 (12) of the General Data Protection Regulation defines what constitutes data protection
"security incident" means a breach of security which
accidental or unlawful destruction of personal data stored or otherwise processed,
loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized disclosure
results in access.

1

Organizational and Operational Regulations of the Directorate of Social and Child Welfare Institutions of Ferencváros (FESZGYI);
1.3. point

3

According to Article 33 (1) and (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data protection incident
the controller without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72 hours after
the data protection incident becomes known to the competent supervisory authority in accordance with Article 55
unless the data protection incident is not likely to pose a risk to the
the rights and freedoms of natural persons. If the notification is not made 72
within one hour, it shall be accompanied by the reasons for the delay. The data processor
without undue delay after becoming aware of the data protection incident
notifies the controller.
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. law
(hereinafter: Infotv.) pursuant to Section 2 (2) of the General Data Protection Decree there
shall apply with the additions set out in the provisions set out in
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 101 (1) (a), if the authority has committed an infringement during the official inspection
experience, initiates its official proceedings. Infotv. Section 38 (3) and Section 60 (1)
based on the Infotv. Personal data within the scope of its duties under Section 38 (2) and (2a)
ex officio in order to enforce the right to protection of personal data.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 103 (1) of the Act concerning the procedures initiated upon request
provisions of Art. It shall apply with the exceptions set out in Sections 103 and 104.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), the Authority shall comply with Section 2 (2) and (4)
in the context of certain data processing operations in the General Data Protection Regulation
may apply certain legal consequences.
Pursuant to Article 83 (7) of the Regulation, supervisory authorities pursuant to Article 58 (2)
without prejudice to its power to correct, each Member State may
public or other public-sector body established in that Member State
whether and to what extent an administrative fine may be imposed on the body. Infotv. § 61
Paragraph 4 (b), the amount of the fine may range from one hundred thousand to twenty million forints if the
is obliged to pay a fine imposed in a decision taken in a data protection authority proceeding
budgetary authority in the case of a fine imposed under Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory
the data controller or processor acting under the corrective powers of the competent authority if
breached the provisions of the Regulation or Article 83
impose an administrative fine accordingly, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in Paragraph 2 of the same Article
In accordance with point (d), the supervisory authority, acting in its corrective capacity, shall instruct the controller
or the processor to carry out its data processing operations, where appropriate in a specified manner and
bring it into line with the provisions of this Regulation.
The conditions for the imposition of an administrative fine are set out in Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
contained in Article. Infotv. 75 / A. § 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
taking into account the principle of proportionality
in particular in the legislation on the processing of personal data
or requirements laid down in a binding act of the European Union
Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in particular by alerting the controller or processor.

4

Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (2) (b), the Authority may order its decision - the
by publishing the identification data of the data controller or the data processor
in the context of the activities of a public body.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 104 (1) (a), the Authority shall ex officio in its area of competence
initiate proceedings if it becomes aware of a circumstance giving rise to such proceedings;
under paragraph 3 of the same paragraph, the ex officio procedure is the first procedural act
starts on the day of the execution of the contract, the notification of the initiation to the known customer may be omitted if the
the authority shall take a decision within eight days of the initiation of the procedure.
III.

Decision

Based on the facts revealed, the Authority concluded that the reported data protection incident
in connection with which the Debtor has performed a risk analysis, taking into account which
took appropriate measures to remedy the incident and ensured that those involved
the risk to his rights and freedoms is no longer realized.
However, the Authority found that the data protection incident had not been reported to
within the time limit set by the General Data Protection Regulation, ie an unjustified delay
and, if possible, no later than 72 hours after becoming aware of the privacy incident
got there. The Debtor stated that the documents about the incident were sent incorrectly
became aware of his return on February 20, 2019. In the Authority's view, this has already been done
prior to, on 12 February 2019, the Debtor became aware when the erroneous
The employee of the Debtor contacted the addressee by telephone, during which it was identified that the
return of the consignment is justified as they were sent incorrectly to the consignee.
The Authority has determined on the basis of the above that the Debtor's knowledge and data protection
24 days have elapsed since the incident was reported. Date indicated in the Debtor's declaration - 2019.
February 20 - 16 days have elapsed since the incident became known and the
incident to the Authority. The Debtor shall certify the delay
he relied primarily on other urgent and core tasks
therefore, the head of the body was not informed of the incident or
Not for notification to the Authority.
The Authority did not accept the Debtor's justification for the delay, as the general data protection
In order to comply with the notification obligation provided for in Article 33 of this Regulation, the controller shall:
take action on the basis of the first alert and determine whether an incident has in fact occurred,
and, if possible, to conduct an investigation within 72 hours, as well as evidence and other relevant information
collect details. However, after the data controller with reasonable certainty
established the fact of the incident, that is to say, in the present case, on 12 February 2019, a
upon notification by the addressee of the erroneous post - the conditions laid down in Article 33 (1)
without undue delay and, if possible, within 72 hours
must notify the supervisory authority. Prior to the timely reporting of the incident, the
nor can it be an obstacle if accurate information is not available, as is general
Article 33 (4) of the Data Protection Regulation allows for the notification to be
take place intermittently. The Authority also emphasizes that in the event of an incident
the superior at the appropriate management level shall be notified immediately to deal with the incident
and may be reported as necessary in accordance with Articles 33 and 34, as appropriate.2
Cf. on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data
Working Party on Data Protection set up under Article 29 of Directive 95/46 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council WP 250rev.01

2

5

Based on the above, the Authority found that the Debtor had violated the general
obligation under Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation, as the data protection
did not report the incident without undue delay after becoming aware of it.
The Authority also instructed the Debtor to take the necessary action
measures to report a possible future data protection incident
within the time limit provided for in Article 33 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Authority shall decide on the fine to be imposed in accordance with Article 83 (2) of the Regulation
considered all the circumstances of the case. When deciding if it is necessary
the imposition of an administrative fine or the setting of the amount of an administrative fine,
he took into account the following.
The IX. District Established by Ferencváros Municipality
budgetary body (Directorate of Social and Child Welfare Institutions of Ferencváros
(FESZGYI) Organizational and Operational Regulations; 1.3. point), for which the Infotv. Section 61 (4)
Pursuant to paragraph 1 (b), the amount of the fine may range from one hundred thousand to twenty million forints. The Debtor
prior to that, a breach of legal provisions on the protection of personal data
has not yet been condemned by the Authority.
In determining the sanction applied, the Authority took into account that it was involved in the incident
the processing of personal data is higher due to the nature of the data and the number of data subjects
there is a risk of unauthorized access to them
for those concerned. The scope and nature of the personal data processed and the range of data subjects
(vulnerable, minors) also support the processing of such data
data controllers must exercise extreme caution and this category of personal data
In the event of a data breach, more severe sanctions may be justified.
The Authority also took into account that the Debtor is not just a data protection incident
It did not comply with its notification to the Authority without undue delay, but
taking measures in this regard, in particular risk analysis, is limited to
on the 24th day after becoming aware of the incident, on March 8, 2019. This
data protection incidents provided to the Authority could be identified
from the relevant part of the registration document. Incident management (concerned
the exact scope of the data, other circumstances, the cause of the incident)
the actual risks of the incident to the rights and freedoms of individuals
nor can they be adequately assessed, which is a risk in itself.
The Authority took into account as an attenuating circumstance that, on the basis of the facts revealed, when
the incident was reported to the Data Protection Officer by the Data Protection Officer
immediately initiated the internal procedure for the incident
incident-related obligations. This fact suggests
that the reason for the late notification was a negligent omission by an organizational unit
therefore, the violation cannot be traced back to the system level of the Debtor
there is no suspicion of intent in connection with the infringement. The Authority
In addition, it also took into account that the Debtor, although not without undue delay, did
reported the data protection incident to the Authority and the other data protection incidents
on the reporting of data protection incidents under Regulation (EU) 2016/679
It was also recognized as a position by the Data Protection Board.

6

It also follows from the measures taken following the
arising from the General Data Protection Regulation in the event of a data protection incident
obligations.
The Authority also took into account the fact that the Debtor cooperated with the Authority in the matter
during the investigation, although this conduct - as it did not comply with legal obligations
too - not specifically assessed as an attenuating circumstance.
Based on the above, the Authority considers it necessary to impose a fine, Infotv. 75 / A. §
application of a warning would not be an appropriate legal consequence in the present case. The imposed
fine according to Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (4), the minimum amount of a fine that may be imposed.
This public task of the budgetary body performing the obligated public task and the management of the infringing data
in connection with the provision of The Authority therefore Section 61 (2) (b)
ordered the decision on the basis of the data of the data controller, ie the Debtor
publication.
ARC.

Other issues

The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.
The Ákr. § 112 and § 116 (1) and § 114 (1), respectively
there is an administrative remedy against him.
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) (a), the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the decision of the Criminal Court falls within the jurisdiction of the court. Section 13 (11)
The Metropolitan Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction pursuant to On civil procedure
on the 2016 CXXX. Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Pursuant to Section 26 (1)
applicable - legal representation in a lawsuit falling within the jurisdiction of the tribunal pursuant to § 72
obligatory. Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), unless otherwise provided by law, the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of the administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter: E-Administration Act), the customer is legal in accordance with Section 9 (1) (b)
representative is required to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 44 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee is
Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
The Ákr. According to § 132, if the debtor does not comply with the obligation contained in the final decision of the authority
fulfilled, it is enforceable. The decision of the Authority With the communication pursuant to Section 82 (1)
it becomes final. The Ákr. The Ákr. Section 133 enforcement - if you are a law
Government decree does not provide otherwise - it is ordered by the decision-making authority. The Ákr. § 134
enforcement - if by law, government decree or municipal authority matter
local government decree does not provide otherwise - it is carried out by the state tax authority. The
7

Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (7), a specific act included in the decision of the Authority
obligation to perform, to behave, to tolerate or to stop
implementation of the decision shall be carried out by the Authority.
Budapest, May 21, 2019
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

8

