
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    02/09/2021
                                Safer Internet Day 2021 - First liked, then bullied? Education for schoolchildren is a top priority In 2021, too, the Safer Internet Day (SID) as a Europe-wide day of action will focus on the safe use of children and young people on the Internet. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate has been supporting these goals for many years with its offers for schools - in times of Corona also as online formats. This year's motto of the SID is "What do I think? – Opinion formation between fact and fake”. The fact that the question of how opinion-making influences people on the Internet is also related to what people reveal always triggers a big aha effect in the LfDI student workshops. In the events, the students are therefore explained how what they "post" and "like" contributes to profile building and why they then receive personalized information. The fact that it is no longer just commercial companies that are on the move, but that political propaganda is also being pursued, has become clearer than ever in the past year. The state data protection officer Professor Dieter Kugelmann says: “False information and conspiracy tales always work best when they meet the interests of the addressee as well as possible. Precisely because children and young people use social media services to a great extent for their communication and self-portrayal within the group of their peers, they are easily attacked and particularly vulnerable here.” Kugelmann continues. "Our events at schools, which we have been offering for ten years, aim to show schoolchildren how they can protect their personal data from being accessed by others and from manipulation and why, when presenting themselves on the Internet, it is better to do it once too often than should think too little critically."
In times of pandemic-related school closures, the area of teaching media skills must also be implemented differently by schools. Therefore, the workshops of the LfDI are currently taking place as online training. Using video conferencing systems, such as the state-owned BigBlueButton system, the LfDI speakers have the classes go on the search for cookies, traces on the Internet and the data collections of their favorite apps. Interactive tools, survey tools and online group tasks ensure variety in the seminars.
Precisely because the students are now increasingly involved with online learning and online communication, the training courses on protecting their privacy are very important to them. The offer is therefore also available to all schools in Rhineland-Palatinate this school year - be it as online workshops or soon again in attendance.
Further information:- Information for student workshops- Information for Safer Internet Day 2021
                                return
                            



