09.12.2022
Penalty for GDPR violation

In November 2022, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the operator Casa Rusu S.R.L. and found a violation of the provisions of art. 25 para. (1), art. 32 para. (1) lit. b) and d) and art. 32 para. (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
As such, the operator was fined 9,883.60 RON, (equivalent to 2000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of a data security breach notification that was sent by Casa Rusu S.R.L. based on the provisions of art. 33 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
Thus, during the investigation, it was found that the violation of the security of data processing occurred as a result of the fact that an unauthorized form was inserted into the online payment section of the website owned by the operator, through which bank data containing customer cards.
As a result, it turned out that this breach led to unauthorized access to processed data through unauthorized disclosure and unauthorized access to certain personal data, such as: name and surname of the bank card holder, card number, date and year of expiry, CVC code .
It was found that the operator Casa Rusu S.R.L. did not implement adequate technical and organizational measures, both at the time of establishing the processing means and at the time of the processing itself. It also resulted that the operator did not carry out the periodic testing, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the processing in order to effectively implement the principles of data protection.
As such, under the provisions of art. 58 para. (2) from Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the operator and the corrective measure were ordered to review and update the technical and organizational measures implemented as a result of the risk assessment for the rights and freedoms of individuals, including the procedures related to electronic communications, thus so as to avoid similar incidents of unauthorized disclosure of processed personal data.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P