1/4

Procedure No.: PS/00213/2019
938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00213/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity LOS NIÑOS DE MONTESSORI S.L., with NIF
B88155734 (www.montessoritrescantos.com), (hereinafter “the claimed entity”),
for alleged violation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons in what
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data
(RGPD), and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: dated 01/17/19, Ms. A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the claimant") files
written before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in which, among others, it indicates:

he started

"Since
the website of
http://www.montessoritrescantos.com in June 2018, it is being breached
with the data protection law: - The user's data is requested by filling in
a contact form, but acceptance of the protection law is not requested
of data. In the section: http://www.montessoritrescantos.com/contacto/.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD). A) Yes,
dated 03/01/19 and 03/20/19, an information request is addressed to the entity
claimed.

According to a certificate from the Electronic Notifications and Electronic Address Service
Enabled, the request made through Notific@, dated 03/01/19, was
rejected on 03/12/19.

According to a certificate from the Correos Postal Service, the request made, through
SICER, dated 03/20/19, was returned to origin on 03/27/19, with the annotation of
“absent” and “not collected from the Correos list service”.

THIRD: Checked the website www.montessoritrescantos.com, dated
08/23/19, it is observed that, both to reserve a place and to get
in contact with the institution "Montessori Tres Cantos", you must enter the data
personal of: "name, email and telephone", not existing any type of banner or link to
the "privacy policy" of the institution, where it is reported what treatment it makes of
the personal data collected through the forms.

FOURTH: Dated 09/06/19, not having received any type of information by
part of the requested person, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the defendant, by virtue of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

powers established in art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of
the Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for the infringement of article 13 of the RGPD and
considered very serious in 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD for prescription purposes,
setting an initial sanction of warning, without prejudice to what would result in
course of the instruction of the procedure, arguing it, essentially in
that: "on the website of the entity (www.montessoritrescantos.com), there is no
no reference to the regulations on the protection of personal data”.

FIFTH: According to a certificate from the Electronic Notifications Service and Address
Electronic Enabled, the request made through Notific@, dated
09/09/19, was rejected on 09/20/19.

The entity claimed has not submitted to this Agency, any brief or allegation,
within the period granted for this purpose.

PROVEN FACTS

1.- On the website www.montessoritrescantos.com, of the entity “Los Niños de
Montessori”, both to reserve a place and to get in touch
with the institution, personal data must be entered, such as name, email
electronic and telephone, there being no type of banner or link to the "policy of
privacy” of the institution.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

In the present case, it has been found that, on the website, of the entity "Los
Montessori children”, both to reserve a place and to contact
contact with the institution, personal data must be entered, such as the name, the
email and telephone, there being no type of banner or link to the “policy
of privacy” of the institution.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

All of the above could imply an infraction for violation of article 13) of the
RGPD, considered in article 72.1.h), of the LOPDGDD as "very serious" to
prescription effects.

III

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

The sanction to be imposed must be graded according to the criteria established
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with recital 148 of the RGPD itself, which provides for the
possibility of punishing with a warning in certain circumstances.

In view of the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

NOTICE: to the entity LOS NIÑOS DE MONTESSORI SL., for infraction of the
article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

REQUEST: to the entity LOS NIÑOS DE MONTESSORI SL., so that, within the term of
one month from this act of notification, proceed to enter on your website
(www.montessoritrescantos.com), a banner or link to the "privacy policy", where
be informed about the processing of the personal data collected through your
Web page.

NOTIFY this resolution to the entity LOS NIÑOS DE MONTESSORI SL.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

