1/4

 File No.: EXP202101346

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 29, 2021, he entered this Spanish Agency for
Data Protection document presented by D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the part
claimant), through which he makes a claim against Ms. B.B.B. with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party), for the installation of a
video surveillance at ***ADDRESS.1, with indications of a possible
breach of the provisions of the data protection regulations
staff.

The reasons that support the claim and, where appropriate, the documents provided
by the complaining party are the following:

The claimed party, a neighbor of the farm adjoining that of the claiming party, is
responsible for a video surveillance camera installed outside the entrance of
the farm of said claimed party, which, due to its location, is likely to capture
images of access to the property of the claimant, without authorization to
this and without being installed the mandatory informative signs of the area
video surveillance

The documents provided are:

- Photo report. Provide images of the camera location.

SECOND: Prior to the admission for processing of this claim, it is
transferred to the claimed party, on August 20, 2021, and reiterated on September 10
of 2021, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
digital (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

There is no response from the claimed party.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, of November 29, 2021.
FOURTH: On March 4, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violations of Articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, as regards
hereafter GDPR), typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a pleading in which, in summary,
stated that:

There is no video surveillance system. The camera put on my property is so
just to scare away potential thieves and squatters. It's not a real camera, it's
just props (fake). There is no installation, no wiring or anything.
I attach photographs of said camera.
This is only because this neighbor has a grudge against me, and we are on the way
lawsuits for usurpation of property, and does not leave us alone with silly complaints.

SIXTH: On June 23, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency archive
the claim filed against Mrs. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infringement of
articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) and b) of the GDPR.

Notified the proposed resolution on July 7, 2022, and after the
term granted to argue, no arguments have been submitted to said proposal.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claiming party states in its claim that the claimed party,
neighbor of the farm adjoining that of the claimant, is responsible for a
video surveillance camera installed outside the entrance of the said farm
claimed party, which, due to its location, is likely to capture images of the access
to the farm of the claimant, without authorization to do so and without
the mandatory informative signs for the video-monitored area must be installed.
Provide images of the camera location.

SECOND: The claimed party, in the allegations to the Commencement Agreement of this
Sanctioning Procedure, indicates that there is no video surveillance system. The
camera placed on your property is only to scare off potential thieves and
you occupy It's not a real camera, it's just props. There is no
any installation, no wiring or anything. Attach photographs of said camera.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), recognizes each
Control Authority, and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: «The procedures processed by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.»

II

In response to the allegations presented by the claimed party to the agreement of
At the beginning of this procedure, the following should be noted:

Examining the allegations of the claimed party, it can be concluded that we
we are faced with a non-operative system, which has been installed for reasons
dissuasive, obeying a legitimate purpose of protecting the home, its
belongings and residents, so that "data processing" is not taking place
any" associated with the complaining party.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the defendant is free to make the decision of the
operability of the same, as long as it meets the requirements set
legally, and the images obtained can be used to prove conduct
uncivil or criminal (threats, attacks, property damage, etc.) against the
presumed material author of the same, which must be made available to the
Security Forces and Corps or the Investigating Judge closest to the place of the
facts.

It is recalled that the camera must be limited to the private part of your property,
should avoid, where appropriate, the capture of public space, and in case of activation,
have an informative poster, indicating at least the person responsible for the treatment and the
way to exercise rights within the framework of current regulations (art. 22 LOPDGDD).

II

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the charges has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in them of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
way more favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning, and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of ius puniendi, in its various manifestations, is conditioned to the
game of evidence and an adversarial procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charges or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the accuser, without
that no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the body
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the penal system, and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TC 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right, in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the set of evidence and a procedure
contradictory in which one's positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no sanction may be imposed based on the
guilt of the accused, if there is no probative activity that, in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TC Auto 3-12-81).

IV.

In accordance with the foregoing, it has not been proven that the device in question
is producing data processing, which is why it is appropriate to propose the
Archive of this procedure.

The parties are reminded that this Agency should not be instrumentalized in
issues outside its jurisdictional framework, owing the rest of the issues, in its
case, be transferred to the pertinent judicial instances, where they may
present the questions they deem necessary.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure, since there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction within the framework of the regulations
in force regarding data protection.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Ms. B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-120722

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

