REPUBLIC 

OF CYPRUS 

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER 

FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION 

 

 

 
 
Ref. 11.17.001.007.263 
 
27 July 2020 
 
BY EMAIL 
 
Data Protection Officer 
F1 Markets Limited  
Kolonakiou Avenue 43  
Diamond Court, Office No: 2B  
4103 Limassol, Cyprus 
 
Dear Madam,   
 

Subject: Investigation of complaint under the GDPR - access request of Mr. XXXXX 

Decision 

 
Further  to  the  exchange  of  communications  between  the  Office  of  the  Commissioner  for 
Personal Data Protection (the Commissioner) and F1 Markets Limited (the controller) concerning 
a  complaint  involving  your  company,  we  would  like  to  bring  to  your  attention  the  following 
assessment of the Commissioner. 
 
Summary of the Case  
 
On 7 August 2019, Mr. XXXXXX. sent an email to info@investous.com requesting the closure of 
his account and access to his data on the basis of article 15 of the GDPR. The email was also 
sent  to  his  account manager. According to  the  complaint,  the  controller did  not  respond  to  the 
access  request  and  the  data  subject  lodged  a  complaint  with  the  data  protection  authority  in 
September 2019.  
 
Investigation by the Commissioner 
 
Further  to  our  exchange  of  communications,  you  explained  that  on  17  July  2019,  Mr.  XXXXX. 
requested  from  the  Customer  Support  team,  account  closure  and  refund  of  his  account,  a 
request  which  was  handled  by  the  Customer  Support  team.  On  18  July  2019,  the  said  team 
replied to Mr. XXXXXX providing specific instructions on how to withdraw the remaining amount 
from his account in order to be able to proceed with the account closure.     
 
Further to your internal investigation it was found that the email sent by Mr. XXXXXX. on the 7 
August  2019,  by  which  he  requested  access  to  his  data,  was  never  received  as  it  was 
quarantined  by  the  email  security  service  and  categorized  as  spam  due  to  the  applied 
information  security  IT  measures  for  emails  received  from  outside  the  Company.  The  account 
manager  who  also  received  the  email  assumed  that  it  had  an  informative  character  and  was 
under  processing,  since  the  established  procedure  for  an  account  closure  request  is  to  be 
forwarded only to the team designated for this role i.e. the Customer Support team. The account 
manager only confirmed that the Customer Support team was working on the request filed from 
Mr. XXXXXXX. 
  
As  remedial  actions  to  the  above  malfunctions,  you  affirmed  that  you  are  working  with  the  IT 
department in order to find a solution to avoid any future blocking of any possibly trusted emails 
from outside the Company, which do not consist information security danger.  
 

1 Iasonos str., P.O. Box 23378, 1682  NICOSIA, CYPRUS Tel.: +357 22818456, Fax:+357 22304565 

 

E-mail: commissioner@dataprotection.gov.cy ,Website: http://www.dataprotection.gov.cy 
 
 
 
You further stated that you planned training sessions for the staff that interacts with the clients to 
remind  them  the  procedures  and  you  have  circulated  detailed  instructions  as  to  how  the  staff 
should reply to each type of request, in order to avoid having a similar miscommunication with 
the clients in the future. 
 
Regarding the access request of  Mr. XXXXX, the following information was gathered –  
 
  On 25 October 2019, Mr. XXXXX addressed the initial access request to the official GDPR 

email on the controller, which was properly received this time.  

 
  On  27  November  2019,  a  letter  was  sent  to  Mr.  XXXXX  answering  all  his  queries  and 
detailed  instructions  were  provided  on  how  to  download  his  data.  Mr.  XXXXX  claimed  to 
never have received the letter and on 16 January 2020, the controller created a link through 
the record management database which contained the data and sent the link to Mr. XXXXX 
by e-mail. On the same day, Mr. XXXXX. contacted the Customer Support team stating that 
he  was  facing  a  problem  with  the  link.  The  Customer  Support  team  offered  assistance  in 
order to resolve the issue but no feedback was received from Mr. XXXXX.    

 
  On 24 February 2020 the controller sent a follow up e-mail to Mr. XXXXXX to check whether 
he managed to open the link concerning the access request and Mr. XXXXXX claimed that 
he never received the link with his data. On 4 March 2020,  a new link was created through 
the  database  and  sent  to  Mr.  XXXXX. On  5  March  2020,  the  controller  sent  a follow  up  e-
mail to  Mr. XXXXX to  check  whether  he  received  the  link. No  answer  was  received  by  Mr. 
XXXXX until today.  

 
Commissioner’s assessment 
 
We  considered  all  information  available  in  relation  to  the  case  and  we  have  the  view  that  you 
eventually  complied  with  Mr.  XXXXXX  access  request.  Since  you  were  able  to  demonstrate 
credibly  that  you  have  fulfilled  your  obligation  to  provide  information  to  the  complainant  by 
means  of  the  letters  of  27  November  2019,  16  January  2020  and  4  March  2020,  no  further 
action on your part is necessary. 
 
Furthermore,  we  take  note  of  the  remedial  actions  taken  by  the  controller  to  avoid  any  future 
blocking of trusted emails and we do not intend to take further action regarding the matter.  
 
We would like to inform you that we keep a record of all the complaints raised with us about the 
way  organisations  process  personal  information.  The  information  we  gather  from  complaints 
may form the basis for action in the future, where appropriate. 
 
 
 
Commissioner  
for Personal Data Protection 
 
 
 
   
 

