 

 

 

 

    Athens, 02-28-2018
    Prot. No.: G/EX/1713/28-02-2018

 

PRINCIPLE OF DATA PROTECTION
OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 

A P O F A S H 20/2018

(Plenary)

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition

Plenary meeting at its headquarters on Tuesday 16.01.2018 at 11:00 a.m., following the invitation of

Its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in its history

present. Konstantinos Menoudakos, President of the Authority and the

regular members of the Authority Konstantinos Christodoulou, Antonios Symvonis, Spyridon

Vlachopoulos, Konstantinos Lamprinoudakis, Eleni Martsoukou, Charalambos

Anthopoulos, and the substitute member, Grigorios Tsolias, as rapporteur. At

meeting was also attended, by order of the President, Evangelia Vassilopoulou,

auditor, as assistant rapporteur, who provided clarifications and left

before the conference and decision making and Irini Papageorgopoulou,

employee of the Administrative Department of the Authority, as secretary.

The Authority took into account the following:

Submitted to the Personal Data Protection Authority under no.

prot. ADPPH C/EIS/5672/27-07-2017 application of the association with the name "KATA

FYSIN ASSOCIATION OF SELF-MANAGING MUTUAL HELP GROUPS FOR

DEALING WITH EVERY TYPE OF ADDICTION" (hereinafter: "KATA FYSIN" association),

as legally represented, as data controller, with which it is requested by

Principle the granting of the required by the provisions of article 7 par. 2 item. (c) of

Law 2472/1997 processing license for presentation before the legally competent

court of sensitive personal data of A, which the

association keeps in its records, for the purpose of defending its rights and,

in particular, for the purpose of rebutting the action that A has brought against him,

before the Magistrate's Court of Thessaloniki (registered case no.... - special procedure

labor disputes) with a hearing set for ..., after being postponed from the original date

appointed trial of .... The subject of the action brought are requests

of A against the aforementioned association from the dependent labor contract, which -

according to his claims - linked him to it.

With the under no. 3/2018 its decision, which was issued on the above case and

of another related matter that were examined together, the Authority referred "for reasons not

issuing opposing decisions" these cases in the Plenary, in order to

decide on issues that have arisen and are referred to in the rationale of the decision

of this one.

Then, with the under no. prot. ADPPH C/EIS/359/15.01.2018 statement to the Authority, the

as the above association, through the power of attorney of Maroussa Protopapadakis,

waives the above under no. prot. ADPPH G/EIS/5672/27.07.2017 his application

to the Authority and requests that the Authority not proceed with its examination, because A

waived his above-mentioned lawsuit on ..., i.e. on the day after

postponement of the trial of the case.

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing the rapporteur and

the clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who was present without the right to vote and

withdrew after discussion of the case and before the conference and reception

decision, after thorough discussion,

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW

Because the applicant association "KATA FYSIN" resigned from the no. first APDPH

C/EIS/5672/27.07.2017 his application to the Authority and requests that the Authority not proceed

in her examination.

FOR THIS REASON

The Authority decides that there is no need to examine the person referred to in her history

of this case as irrelevant.

 

The president

 
 

 

 

The Secretary

 
 

 

Konstantinos Menudakos

Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

