 

Anu Talus 
Chair of the European  Data Protection  Board 
 

by e-mail only 
Ref: OUT2023_0073 
 
Subject: Your letter to the EDPB of 29 June 2023 
 

Dear Ms. in ‘t Veld, 

 

Ms. Sophie in ‘t Veld 
Member of the European Parliament 
 
Brussels, 04 October 2023 
 

I would like to thank you for your letter of 29 June 2023 concerning the amendments passed by the 
Irish Parliament on 28 June 2023 by way of the Courts and Civil  Law (Miscellaneous Provisions)  Bill 
2022 and including rules on the confidentiality of data protection investigations. 

Firstly, I would like to stress that the EDPB takes the question of confidentiality of procedures very 
seriously, particularly with regard to the proper functioning of the GDPR cooperation and consistency 
mechanism.  

The EDPB has addressed the topic of confidentiality in its Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of 
Article 60 GDPR 1. These Guidelines state:   

"The LSA  and  other  CSAs  may  flag  specific  pieces  of  information  as  (highly)  confidential, 
particularly  when  this  seems  necessary  in  order  to  meet  requirements  of  confidentiality 
constraints  laid  down  in  national  laws.  In  such  a  case,  the  SAs  should  inform  each  other 
immediately  and  jointly  find  legal  options  for  a  solution  against  the  background  that 
confidentiality provisions usually relate to external third parties and not to CSAs. In this regard, 
any information received that is subject to national  secrecy rules should  not be published or 
released to third parties without prior consultation with the originating authority, whenever 
possible." 

Therefore, the Guideline clarify that Lead Supervisory Authorities (LSAs) and Concerned Supervisory 
Authorities (CSAs) should jointly find solutions to confidentiality constraints, taking account that such 
constraints should not, as a rule, affect the cooperation procedure among SAs.  

                                                             
1 EDPB Guidelines 02/2022 on the application of Article 60 GDPR, adopted on 14 March 2022.  

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

In addition, on 10 October 2022, the EDPB sent a letter to the EU Commission, the annex of which 
contained a list of procedural aspects that could benefit from further harmonisation at EU level2. This 
was done with a view to ensuring the full effectiveness of the GDPR’s cooperation and consistency 
mechanism (‘the EDPB wish-list'). In this wish-list, the EDPB highlighted the need for further clarity on 
the  rights of  controllers,  processors  and  complainants  to  receive documentation  relating to  the 
proceedings, and on how they can use the information received, including in the terms of disclosure.  

On  4  July  2023,  the European  Commission  issued  a Proposal  for  a  Regulation of  the European 
Parliament and of the Council laying down additional procedural rules relating to the enforcement of 
the GDPR 3—and formally consulted  the EDPB and the EDPS jointly on that Proposal. The Proposal 
contains specific provisions in this respect to harmonise confidentiality requirements in cross-border 
proceedings. During its 84th Plenary on 19 and 20 September, the EDPB adopted an EDPB-EDPS Joint 
Opinion  01/2023 on the Proposal for a Regulation on procedural rules for the enforcement of the 
GDPR 4.  

The EDPB welcomes  the Proposal  for  an EU-harmonised  solution  on  this  matter and expect this 
solution to foster cooperation amongst supervisory authorities. In this context, the Proposal highlights 
the importance for such  solutions  not  to impair the exchange of  information  among supervisory 
authorities. The Proposal also takes into account the need to protect the confidentiality of sensitive 
information and to prevent disclosure that could negatively impact ongoing administrative or judicial 
proceedings. 

Please be reassured that the EDPB takes the question of confidentiality of procedures very seriously 
and that we will continue to monitor the developments on this topic.  

Yours sincerely, 

 
 
Anu Talus 

                                                             
2 EDPB Letter to the EU Commission on procedural aspects that could be harmonised at EU level, issued on 10 
October 2022.  
3 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down additional procedural 
rules relating to the enforcement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 
4 EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 01/2023 on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the 
Council laying down additional procedural rules relating to the enforcement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

