

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities The English College in Prague - Anglicské gymnázium, o.p.s. - processing of personal data of gymnasium students



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection of the processing of personal data of gymnasium students in connection with the investigation of an alleged incident between students.

The authority found that the audited person disclosed the personal data of the students related to the incident to all their classmates from the class (sent to the classmates by electronic mail a request for comments, which included a description of the incident and the identification of the people who were supposed to participate in it), without the consent of the students concerned. The purpose of sending the invitation in question was to obtain the testimony of other persons in connection with the initiation of administrative proceedings on the expulsion of the student from the school and the investigation of contradictory claims of the participants in the incident.

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office found a violation of § 5 paragraph 1 letter f) (processing in accordance with the purpose), paragraph 2 (legal title for processing) and paragraph 3 (obligation to take care of the protection of private and personal life during processing on the basis of a special law) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. As the matter involved a rare disclosure of personal data, the Office did not impose corrective measures.



The office imposed a fine of CZK 6,000 on the inspected person.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector PhDr. Petr Krejci.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > The English College in Prague - Anglické gymnázium, o.p.s. - processing of personal data of gymnasium studentsView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



