 
One year General Data Protection Regulation

The direction is right

Press Release – Page 1/4
Munich, May 24th, 2019

On May 25, 2019, the General Data Protection Regulation will be one year
old. Their effects are obvious and significant. you concern
Data processing in the European Union, but in particular
also the perception of the need for data protection in Europe
ropa and beyond. Awareness of data protection
is now increasingly penetrating business, administration and society
shaft. This is not least due to the data protection
basic regulation.
 
The General Data Protection Regulation has improvements for citizens
coagulate and citizens brought. You now have extensive
existing rights to assert oneself in the digital world. affected
ne must be informed comprehensively and appropriately. you ha-
Ben rights to information, correction, deletion including
the right to be forgotten and other rights, um
their positions, especially in relation to large digital corporations
to assert and the power of disposal over their data
keep. In its focus on people, the data
Basic Protection Ordinance Expression of effective protection of fundamental rights.
 
Those responsible are a certain and partly increased
subject to effort. However, this is done in business and administration
much more transparent, which data processing is there at all
already exist, how they are related and how optimization
opportunities can be exploited. The data protection basic
regulation brings benefits beyond data protection because they
triggers a digital checkout. It shouldn't be kept secret
be that the General Data Protection Regulation quite trouble
and cause costs in business, administration and society

Your personal rights - our mission

 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05/24/2019 – page 2/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
can. These efforts and costs are not all new, however
build on the necessities of the old legal situation. white
 
further developments are always necessary to keep up with the dynamics of
to meet digital developments.
 
The independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal government and
of the federal states are committed to the protection of fundamental rights and support
In particular, citizens demonstrate their fundamental rights
Not only having data protection, but also enforcing it. This
has resulted in a significant increase in the
workload led. However, this increased workload is
expedient because it serves the citizens. Despite
tense resource situation, it is the supervisory authorities in the first place
year, through comprehensive advice and information,
to reduce uncertainties. Numerous individual cases could
be completed successfully. Here, success means
to ensure protection and not primarily to impose sanctions. Al
However, the data protection supervisory authorities do not hesitate to
In the event of violations of data protection law, effective sanctions
and impose measures when necessary.
 
The General Data Protection Regulation was initially criticized.
Many of these criticisms could be cleared up after
through factual information hysterical and exaggerated reactions
have been corrected. Some criticisms relate to
Kern on the question of who is responsible for which measures
which form must be implemented. Small medium-sized companies
take the manufacturing sector must meet the requirements
of the General Data Protection Regulation as well
wear like the big digital companies. The privacy
However, with its risk-based approach and
the necessary adequacy of measures possibilities
of differentiation. Through the action of the supervisory authorities
in the application of the General Data Protection Regulation, the legal
uncertainties are reduced, starting points for criticism are reduced
gets. But the applicable law is determined by the legislature.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05/24/2019 – page 3/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
Even almost three years after the enactment of the data protection
Basic Regulation, there are some indications that many responsible
 
verbatim has not yet been fully implemented. this is in
to a large extent dependent on the size of the institutions concerned
to. While in the field of large companies, the implementation of the
General Data Protection Regulation often organized as a project and
was backed with targets and resources, this seems in
to have taken place more selectively in other areas. The reasons why
are different. In many cases, despite available material
lien and several advisory and information initiatives
Uncertainties regarding the necessary implementation measures
men to pass. Especially in smaller entrepreneurial ones
and administrative units may also need limited resources
have made agile implementation processes more difficult.
 
However, the available findings also show that there are deficits
often not with a view to the new requirements of data protection
basic regulation, but apparently already at the time
of the old legal situation existed. The one with the privacy
Implementation and sanction pressure associated with the Basic Regulation
makes this now recognizable.
 
The same applies to the obligation to report data breaches; is here too
not to be assumed that the number of incidents with the
General Data Protection Regulation has increased significantly. The Enormous
Increase in reports of data breaches may be less due to a
actually increased number of incidents, rather than also
due to the threat of sanctions, but also due to the significantly tightened
the legal reporting requirements.
be the Overall, the increased perception of data protection
legal requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation
led to increased activity. More responsible people do a lot
more than before May 25, 2018. But not all are doing enough.
 
After a year, the General Data Protection Regulation will be put on hold
fairer fairway. She is going in the right direction and in the con-
concrete application and the thorough formulation of their requirements
it becomes clear that a wide range of leeway is being used sensibly
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from 05/24/2019 – page 4/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
can. In this way, the data protection authorities want and will
supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments the citizens
 
continue to support citizens. The goal is and remains freedom in the digital world
secure world.
 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

