 

 

 
 
 
Athens, 08-03-2021
Prot. No.: 784
 

DECISION 6/2021

(Department)

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
Department at its headquarters on 03.02.2021 upon invitation of its President,
in order to examine the case referred to in the present history.
They were attended by the Deputy President G. Batzalexis, who was obstructing the President
of the Authority K. Menoudakou, and the alternate members of the Authority E.
Papakonstantinou, as rapporteur, and G. Tsolias, in place of regulars
members K. Lambrinoudakis and X. Anthopoulos, respectively, who, although
were legally summoned in writing, did not attend due to disability. The regular member
of the Authority S. Vlachopoulos, although legally summoned in writing, did not attend due to
obstacle. K. Karveli, expert, was present without the right to vote
scientist-lawyer, as assistant rapporteur, who left after the debate
of the case and before the conference and decision-making and E.
Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Authority's administrative affairs department,
as secretary.

 
The Authority took into account the following:
A, through the attorney-at-law of X. Tseliou, filed suit no. first
C/EIS/3543/25.05.20 treatment request against the no. prot. C/EX/2476-
1/24.04.20 of the Authority's document.

With the no. prot. C/EIS/2476/06.04.20 her complaint to the Authority n
the applicant complained that the HYGEIA Private Hospital did not provide her with copies
of patient B's medical file despite her legitimate interest
to this end, and asked the Authority to take action in order to a)
 

1

1-3 Kifisias Ave., 11523 Athens
T: 210 6475 600 • E: contact@dpa.gr • www.dpa.gr

 

grant the said items and b) impose the appropriate sanctions on
HYGEIA clinic due to the failure to provide the relevant information.

The Authority, after examining the above complaint, issued the no. first
C/EX/2476-1/14.04.20 act of filing the complaint, on the grounds that
from the combination of the provisions of articles 57 of the GDPR and article 13 thereof
Law 4624/19, the Authority does not have the authority to deal with requests
of data subjects for provision of personal data
of third parties.

 Against the above no. prot. C/EX/2476-1/14-.04.20 of filing act
of the Authority, A through the attorney-in-fact of X. Tseliou, filed suit no.
original C/EIS/3543/25.5.20 request for treatment, with which he requests the withdrawal of
of this document, the re-examination of the case, the finding of illegality
of the HYGEIA Hospital, as well as for the Authority to give the order to grant it
the HYGEIA Clinic all the requested information, for the following reasons:

1) The rejection of the complaint is unjustified.
2) Article 13 of Law 4624/19 does not provide for a category of position in the file
complaint for not falling within the scope of the legislation on
protection of personal data or the competence of the Authority

3) The rule of law on which the complaint is based is Article 9
par. 2 item of the GDPR, namely the legal interest of the applicant to receive
knowledge of the requested information for judicial use.

 
The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing him
rapporteur and the assistant rapporteur, who then left, and then
thorough discussion,
                                     

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW

 

1. Article 24 par. 1 of Law 2690/1999 (KDDiad) states that "If from the relevant
provisions do not provide for the possibility of exercising, according to the next article,
of a special administrative or adversarial appeal, the interested party, for the
restoration of material or moral damage to the legal interests of the

 

2

caused by an individual administrative act may, for any reason, by application
of, to request, either from the administrative authority which issued the deed, the
its revocation or amendment (remedial request), either, by the authority which
is headed by the one that issued the deed, its annulment (hierarchical
recourse)". In the true sense of the provision, the application for a remedy is intended
in the revocation or modification of the challenged individual administrative act for
legal or factual defects thereof which go back to the regime under which
was issued.

2. The issues raised with the treatment request, such as
set forth above in the history of the present, have already been examined and judged by
the begining. In addition, the applicant does not invoke or provide new evidence from
the assessment of which there could possibly be a different judgment.
3. Therefore, the Authority adheres to No. original G/E2476-1/24.04.20 deed

filing of the complaint.

 

FOR THOSE REASONS

The beginning

It rejects A's treatment request.

 

 
 

            The Deputy President The Secretary
 
 
              George Batzalexis
 

 

      Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

3

