EDPB Strategy 2021-2023

Adopted on 15 December 2020

Adopted

Table of contents

Introduction..................................................................................................................................... 3
Pillar 1: Advancing harmonisation and facilitating compliance ...................................................... 3
Pillar 2: Supporting effective enforcement and efficient cooperation between national

1
2
3
supervisory authorities............................................................................................................................ 4
Pillar 3: A fundamental rights approach to new technologies........................................................ 5
4

Adopted

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

1 INTRODUCTION

The mission of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is to ensure the consistent application of
European data protection rules and to promote effective cooperation among supervisory authorities
throughout the European Economic Area (EEA).

On 25 May 2018, the EDPB began putting into practice a new institutional and legal framework. This
framework comprises both the General Data Protection Regulation1 (GDPR) and the Law Enforcement
Directive2 (LED). Under the GDPR and LED, cooperation is no longer an option or an ancillary task, but
a core and integral part of our work. While much has been achieved, we must address a series of
challenges in order to enhance the protection of personal data within and beyond our borders. To be
effective in confronting the main challenges ahead, the EDPB has decided to define a strategy for 2021-
2023.

Our ultimate goal of protecting individuals with regard to the processing of personal data continues to
drive  our  actions. The  development  of a common  data  protection  culture,  which  serves as  an
inspiration and model globally, is at the core of our strategy.

This Strategy does not provide an exhaustive overview of the work of the EDPB in the years to come.
Rather it sets out the four main pillars of our strategic objectives, as well as set of key actions to help
achieve those objectives. The EDPB will implement this Strategy within its Work Program, and will
report on the progress achieved in relation to each Pillar as part of its annual reports.

2 PILLAR 1: ADVANCING HARMONISATION AND FACILITATING

COMPLIANCE

The  EDPB  will  continue  to  strive  for  a maximum  degree  of  consistency  in  the  application  of  data
protection rules and limit fragmentation among Member States. In addition to providing practical,
easily understandable and accessible guidance, the EDPB will develop and promote tools that help to
implement  data  protection  into  practice,  taking  into  account  practical  experiences  of  different
stakeholders on the ground.

 Key  action 1: the  EDPB  will focus  on providing further guidance  on key  notions of  EU  data
protection law (e.g., on the concept of legitimate interest, on the scope of data subjects’ rights)
which  are  essential  to  its  consistent  application.  Through  the  organisation  of  dedicated
stakeholder events and public consultations, we will continue to engage with a wide range of
external  stakeholders (large companies  and  SMEs,  NGOs,  DPOs  networks  and  other  data

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
2 Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the
prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties,
and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA.

Adopted

protection professionals) in order to ensure practical relevance. Additional efforts will go to make
a more proactive use of the consistency mechanism as well as of other tools in order to address
potential gaps or divergences in interpretation and practices in Member States.

 Key action 2: the EDPB will further promote development and implementation of compliance
mechanisms for controllers and processors: increased efforts and resources will be invested – in
particular through dedicated workshops and staff trainings - to stimulate the development of tools
to promote compliance, in particular codes of conduct and certifications.

 Key action 3: the EDPB will foster the development of common tools for a wider audience and
engage  in awareness  raising  and  outreach  activities: the  EDPB  already  issues guidelines  and
opinions addressed to professionals with extensive expert knowledge. Building on the resources
already available at national level, the Board will develop tools specifically tailored for non-expert
professionals, such as SMEs, and for data subjects, in particular children.

3 PILLAR 2: SUPPORTING EFFECTIVE ENFORCEMENT AND EFFICIENT
COOPERATION BETWEEN NATIONAL SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES

6.

The EDPB is fully committed to support cooperation between all national supervisory authorities that
work  together  to  enforce  European  data  protection  law.  We  will streamline  internal  processes,
combine expertise and promote enhanced coordination. We intend not only to ensure a more efficient
functioning of the cooperation and consistency mechanisms, but also to strive for the development of
a genuine EU-wide enforcement culture among supervisory authorities.

 Key action 1: encourage and facilitate use of the full range of cooperation tools enshrined in
Chapter  VII  of  the  GDPR and  Chapter  VII  of  the  LED,  bridge  gaps  or  differences  between
national enforcement procedures, and continuously evaluate and improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of these tools. Further promoting a common application of key concepts in the
cooperation procedure and strengthening of the communication between SAs.

 Key  action 2: implement  a Coordinated  Enforcement  Framework (CEF)  to  facilitate  joint
actions  in  a  flexible  but  coordinated  manner,  ranging  from  joint  awareness  raising  and
information gathering to enforcement sweeps and joint investigations. The CEF will facilitate
the coordination of enforcement actions driven by commonly identified priorities and using
common methodologies.

 Key action 3: establish a Support Pool of Experts (SPE) on the basis of a pilot project, with a
view of providing material support in the form of expertise that is useful for investigations and
enforcement activities of significant common interest and to enhance the cooperation and
solidarity between all SAs by reinforcing and complementing the strengths of the individual
SAs and addressing operational needs.

Adopted

4 PILLAR 3: A FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS APPROACH TO NEW

TECHNOLOGIES

7.

The protection of personal data helps to ensure that technology, new business models and society
develop in accordance with our values, such as human dignity, autonomy and liberty. The EDPB will
continuously monitor new and emerging technologies and their potential impact on the fundamental
rights and daily lives of individuals. Data protection should work for all people, particularly in the face
of processing activities presenting the greatest risks to individuals’ rights and freedoms (e.g. to prevent
discrimination). We will help to shape Europe’s digital future in line with our common values and rules.
We will continue to work with other regulators and policymakers to promote regulatory coherence
and enhanced protection for individuals.

 Key Action 1: Assessing new technologies: proactively monitoring, assessing and establishing
common positions and guidance as regards new technological applications in areas such as
artificial intelligence (AI), biometrics, profiling, ad tech and continuous evaluation of existing
positions on applications such as cloud services, blockchain etc.

 Key  Action  2: Reinforcing  data protection  by  design  and by  default  and  accountability:
provide  clear  guidance  on  how  to  implement  data  protection  principles  effectively,  what
individuals are entitled to expect and what organisations can do to further improve the ability
of individuals to exercise control over their personal data and demonstrate compliance with
their obligations.

 Key Action 3: intensify engagement and cooperation with other regulators (e.g. consumer
protection and competition authorities) and policymakers to ensure that individuals receive
optimal  protection  and  to  prevent  harms  from  occurring, including  where  necessary  or
appropriate in the context of open consultations on new draft proposals or new projects.

5 PILLAR 4: THE GLOBAL DIMENSION

8.

The EDPB  is determined  to set  and  promote  high  EU  and  global  standards  for  international  data
transfers to third countries in the private and the public sector, including in the law enforcement
sector.  We  will reinforce  our  engagement  with  the  international  community  to  promote  EU data
protection as a global model and to ensure effective protection of personal data beyond EU borders.

 Key Action 1: Promote the use of transfer tools ensuring an essentially equivalent level of
protection and increase awareness on their practical implementation: develop and provide
further practical guidance on how these transfer tools – especially new ones - can maintain a
high level of protection of personal data transferred from the EEA to third countries, taking
into  account  the  risks  linked  to  access  to  personal  data  by  the  public  authorities of  third
countries  and  the  need  to  ensure enforceable  rights,  effective  redress  and  safeguards
concerning onward transfers.

 Key Action 2: Engaging with the international community: the EDPB and its members will
strive  to  engage  in  dialogue  with  international  organisations  and  institutional  networks  in
order  to  provide  leadership  in  data  protection  and  promote  high  standards  of  protection
worldwide.

Adopted

 Key  Action  3:  facilitate  the  engagement  between  EDPB  members  and the  supervisory
authorities of third  countries with  a  focus on cooperation  in  enforcement cases involving
controllers/processors located outside the EEA.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

