Legal Advisory Office  
N/REF: 0037/2022  

The consultation raises the question of whether the communication of personal data by the Office for Prevention and Fight against Corruption in the Balearic Islands to the Audit Office of the Balearic Islands, following the receipt of several information requests, is in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (hereinafter GDPR) and with Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

The Office for Prevention and Fight against Corruption (hereinafter OAIB) states that it has received requests from the Audit Office (hereinafter SCIB) that may be contrary to the GDPR, as indicated in the report from the Data Protection Officer of the OAIB provided in the consultation, which summarizes the following:

The SCIB is requesting information related to the procedures for filling job positions carried out by the OAIB, including documents submitted by interested parties, minutes of evaluation committees, certificates of knowledge of the Catalan language, curricula, and reports.  
Regarding the certificates of knowledge of the Catalan language, it states that they are requested without anonymization, and that the personal data provided by the interested parties include curricula and reports with particularly protected data.  

In the opinion of the OAIB, the SCIB lacks the authority to request this personal data, as such a request falls outside the scope of its external auditing functions concerning economic, financial, and accounting activities, as attributed by the applicable legal framework to which it refers.  

It adds that this lack of authority cannot be remedied by the Agreement of the Commission of Finance and Budgets of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, which approves the non-legislative proposal RGE no. 4261/20, published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands no. 34, of March 6, 2020, approved by the Commission of Finance and Budgets of the Parliament of the Balearic Islands, in the session of June 3, 2020, and which the Audit Office has misinterpreted. Specifically, in this agreement, it is indicated that: The Parliament of the Balearic Islands urges the Audit Office of the Balearic Islands to carry out an annual legality compliance audit of the Office for Prevention and Fight against Corruption in a specific report, and to report on its results.  

According to the OAIB, compliance with legality must be clearly understood as referring exclusively to its economic, financial, and accounting activities. Therefore, the request made is outside its legal powers and those derived from that agreement.  

Finally, it indicates that the information requested by the SCIB is included in reports published on the institutional website where it makes value judgments about the same. (It provides links to the web pages where two reports are hosted) Therefore, the data that has been processed could be given a purpose incompatible or outside the initial one, to the extent that the OAIB does not have the authorization of the interested parties participating in the job provision calls for a different processing. Nor is anything recorded in the Registry of Processing Activities that has been established for this purpose.  

For all these reasons, the DPO of the OAIB considers that the principles of lawfulness could be violated, as none of the conditions provided for in Article 6.1 of the GDPR are met, particularly those set out in letters a), c), and e), and also the general prohibition on the processing of special categories of data in accordance with Article 9.1 of the GDPR.  

As well as what is provided for in Article 8 of the LOPDGDD, since there is no regulation that empowers the SCIB to make legality reports regarding job provision and, therefore, there is no public interest mission that is called to comply with this request.  

I  
Having set out the terms of the consultation, it should be noted that for the processing of personal data to be in accordance with the GDPR, several elements of the data protection system must be met, including the principles of data protection contained in Article 5.1 of the GDPR, according to which personal data shall be:  
a) processed lawfully, fairly, and transparently in relation to the data subject (“lawfulness, fairness, and transparency”);
Legal Office
b) collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes, and shall not be processed further in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to Article 89, paragraph 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific and historical research purposes, or statistical purposes shall not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes ("purpose limitation");
c) adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed ("data minimization");
d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable measures shall be taken to ensure that inaccurate personal data is erased or rectified without delay with respect to the purposes for which it is processed ("accuracy");
e) maintained in a manner that allows the identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing personal data; personal data may be stored for longer periods as long as it is processed solely for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes, or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to the application of appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this Regulation to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject ("storage limitation");
f) processed in such a way as to ensure an adequate level of security of personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction, or damage, by applying appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").
In this case and considering the terms of the consultation, the analysis of this report will focus on the principles of lawfulness (item a), data minimization (item b), or proportionality and purpose limitation (item c). 
All of this is without prejudice to addressing other aspects related to the right to data protection that may be directly or indirectly affected.
II
The principle of lawfulness is the one that determines under what circumstances or conditions processing must be considered lawful. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
3

                                                           Legal Office
In general, the situations or legal bases that legitimize the processing of personal data are found in Article 6 of the GDPR, and regarding special categories of data, in Article 9.2 of the GDPR, which outlines the situations in which the general prohibition on processing such data established in paragraph 1 does not apply, that is, it is exempted.
This means that in order to process these latter data, there must be coverage in Article 9.2 GDPR, and once the general prohibition is exempted, one must refer to the situations in Article 6 GDPR to provide legality to the processing in question. This was indicated by the Article 29 Working Party (whose functions have been assumed by the European Data Protection Committee) in its opinion "Guidelines on Automated Individual Decision-Making and Profiling for the Purposes of Regulation 2016/679" by stating that (…) Data controllers may only process special category personal data if one of the conditions laid down in Article 9, paragraph 2, is met, as well as a condition from Article 6. (…).
Well then, regarding the processing of personal data carried out by public authorities, which is the status held by the SCIB, this Legal Office has had the opportunity to express its opinion on several occasions, with the general criterion being that what is indicated in Article 6.1 c) or e) of the GDPR would apply depending on what is provided by the applicable regulation to the data controller. (Report 74/2019).
Article 6.1 of the GDPR states the following:
Processing shall be lawful only if at least one of the following conditions is met: (…)
c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject; (…)
e) processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller;
Recital 41 of the GDPR states that “When this Regulation refers to a legal basis or to a legislative measure, this does not necessarily require a legislative act adopted by a parliament, without prejudice to the requirements of conformity with the constitutional order of the Member State concerned. However, such legal basis or legislative measure must be clear and precise and its application foreseeable for its subjects, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union.”
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
4
Legal Office
(hereinafter, "Court of Justice") and the European Court of Human Rights.
Recital 45 of the GDPR states that “When carried out in compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the data controller, or if necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers, the processing must have a basis in Union Law or the laws of the Member States.” 
However, the LOPDGDD establishes in its Article 8 under the heading “Processing of data by legal obligation, public interest or exercise of public powers” the following:
1. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on compliance with a legal obligation enforceable against the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when such is provided for by a norm of Union Law or a norm with the rank of law, which may determine the general conditions of processing and the types of data subject to it as well as the transfers that may occur as a consequence of compliance with the legal obligation. Such a norm may also impose special conditions on the processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
2. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred to the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1 e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when it derives from a competence attributed by a norm with the rank of law.”
That is to say, the Spanish legislator has determined that it must be by a norm with the rank of law, the instrument that either imposes an obligation on the data controller that entails the processing of personal data, or that attributes to the data controller public competences that involve data processing.
Taking into account the elements of the principle of lawfulness in relation to the processing of personal data carried out by public authorities, the analysis of the data processing that is the subject of the consultation proceeds, both from the perspective of the information requester, the SCIB, and from that of the requested party, the OAIB, in order to see the regulatory fit that it may have both in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD.
III
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
5

                                                           Legal Office
Having outlined the terms of the consultation and the legal framework for data protection that must be complied with, it is necessary to address the legal nature of the requesting body for the information, the Audit Office of the Balearic Islands, and specifically the competences and functions under which it requires the information subject to analysis.
The first norm to refer to is the Statute of Autonomy of the Balearic Islands itself, approved by Organic Law 2/1983, of February 25, and amended by Organic Law 1/2007, of February 28, reforming the Statute of Autonomy, which in its Article 82 under the heading “Audit Office” provides the following:
1. Without prejudice to the competences corresponding to the Court of Accounts, the Audit Office is the body responsible for the external audit of the economic, financial, and accounting activity of the public sector of the Balearic Islands. (...)
3. A law of the Parliament will regulate its functioning and organization.
For its part, Law 4/2004, of April 2, on the Audit Office of the Balearic Islands, indicates in its Explanatory Memorandum several elements that are necessary to highlight and that will serve to determine the nature of the body and its functions. For example, it states that:
(...) whose work is similar in its scope to that assigned by the Constitution to the Court of Accounts (...)
(...) the Audit Office is endowed with bodies with completely delimited competences, with the aim of exercising its auditing function, not only from the point of view of legality but inspired by the objectives of effectiveness, efficiency, and economy in the management of public funds, going even beyond the principle of “true image” (which is synonymous with accuracy, objectivity, truthfulness, and compliance with legal and accounting principles).
(...) without prejudice to the supplementary application of the norms referring to the Court of Accounts (...)
And from the articles of the norm, it is necessary to highlight the following provisions:
Article 1. Nature of the Audit Office.
1. The Audit Office of the Balearic Islands is the body responsible for the external audit of the economic, financial, and accounting activity of the public sector of the Balearic Islands, without prejudice to
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
6
Legal Cabinet
of the competencies that, in relation to the entire national territory,
correspond to the Court of Auditors.
Article 4. Functions.
The functions of the Court of Auditors are:
1. a) The external audit of the economic-financial and accounting activity of the public sector of the Balearic Islands, ensuring compliance with the principles of legality, effectiveness, efficiency, and economy.
Article 5. Collaboration.
1. The Court of Auditors, for the more effective fulfillment of its functions, is authorized to:
a) Require those subject to its auditing action to provide the background, data, reports, and documents, regardless of their format, that it considers necessary for the proper understanding and verification of the auditable act. (...)
2. When the Court of Auditors requests collaboration, those required shall be obliged to provide it.
Article 8. Scope of the auditing function.
1. In fulfillment of its auditing function, the Court of Auditors will verify the actual compliance of the economic-financial activity of the subjects included in its scope of action with the principles of legality, effectiveness, efficiency, and economy.
Article 10. Initiative and promotion of procedures.
2. The Parliament of the Balearic Islands, either in plenary or through the commission that has competencies in matters of Finance and Budgets, may promote the auditing activity of the Court of Auditors. Such initiative may refer to any of the subjects comprising the public sector delineated by this law, or to any recipient or beneficiary of public aid from the same.
Article 12. Audit reports or memoranda.
1. The results of the auditing actions will be presented through reports or memoranda, the content of which must refer, primarily, to:
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
7

                                                           Legal Cabinet
a) The observance of the legal framework and applicable accounting principles, as well as the compliance of the economic-financial management with the principles of effectiveness, efficiency, and economy.
(...)
c) The result of the audit of contracts, the situation and variations of the assets, the application of subsidies, credits, aids, or guarantees, indicating, where appropriate, the incidents or deviations observed regarding the reasons that justified their granting, and their causes.
d) The existence, where applicable, of infringements, abuses, or irregular practices that must be corrected or sanctioned.
e) The measures that, where applicable, are proposed for the improvement of the economic and financial management of the entities of the public sector of the Balearic Islands.
From the above, it is concluded that the SCIB is an organ of territorial scope corresponding to the Autonomous Community of the Balearic Islands, provided for in its own Statute of Autonomy and dependent on the regional Parliament, with functions similar to those of the Court of Auditors, and that it is responsible for controlling the legality of its economic-financial and accounting activity. 
Its duties are carried out ex officio; however, the initiative of its actions may be promoted by the Autonomous Parliament and may refer to any of the subjects comprising the public sector or to any recipient or beneficiary of public aid from the same. 
The results of its actions are manifested through the issuance of reports where, among other issues, the observed irregularities and the proposed measures for improvement are recorded.
Consequently, it can be stated that the data processing resulting from the exercise of these competencies of legality control of the economic-financial and accounting activity of the regional public sector arises from the Statute itself and from the law regulating the SCIB; therefore, compliance with the principle of lawfulness set forth in Article 5.1 a) of the GDPR would be fulfilled, as it concerns processing necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller (Article 6.1 e) of the GDPR).
IV
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
8
Legal Office
Regarding the OAIB, in addition to the general obligation to comply with the legal system, it is important to highlight what is stated in Article 5 of Law 4/2004, of April 2, on the Audit Office of the Balearic Islands, which provides that:

Article 5. Collaboration.
1. The Audit Office, for the most effective fulfillment of its functions, is empowered to:
a) Require those subject to its auditing action to provide the background, data, reports, and documents, regardless of their format, that it considers necessary for the proper understanding and verification of the auditable act. (…)
2. When the Audit Office requests collaboration, those required shall be obliged to provide it.

Likewise, Law 16/2016, of December 9, establishing the Office for Prevention and Fight against Corruption in the Balearic Islands, determines in its article 9.2 the following:
2. The Office for Prevention and Fight against Corruption is established as an entity for cooperation and permanent relationship with the judicial authority, the public prosecutor's office, the Síndic de Greuges, the Audit Office, the General Intervention of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands, the intervention bodies of the island and municipal councils, as well as with the bodies that have competencies for the control, supervision, and guardianship of public and private instrumental legal entities. To this end, and within the legal assumptions, the Office will provide all the information it has and will offer the necessary support to the institution or body conducting the corresponding investigation or audit.

Consequently, the OAIB, as a member of the public sector subject to the territorial and operational scope of the SCIB, must comply with the information requirements as a legal obligation derived from this regulation and, therefore, the processing of personal data resulting from it will also find its legitimacy in Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR in relation to Article 8.1 of the LOPDGDD.

V
Now, for the processing of personal data to be compliant with the GDPR, it must not only adhere to the principle of lawfulness, but as will be analyzed below, especially in relation to the query raised, it must observe the principle of data minimization and purpose limitation, to the extent that not every type of information request made by public authorities in the exercise of their functions is unlimited simply because it comes from public power, but it is necessary to comply with a series of requirements and be closely related to the purpose of the data processing resulting from the exercise of the powers attributed to it by the legal system.

In this same sense, the CJEU ruling of February 24, 2022, Case C-175-20 indicates:
74 (…) the data controller, even when acting within the framework of the mission carried out in the public interest conferred upon it, cannot proceed, in a generalized and undifferentiated manner, to the collection of personal data and must refrain from collecting data that is not strictly necessary in relation to the purposes of the processing. (…))

In other words, the processing resulting from the information request must be useful and serve the purpose (principle of purpose limitation) and not be excessive for the exercise of the competence in question (principle of data minimization) and ultimately be in accordance with the principle of proportionality.

Indeed, Article 5.1 b) and c) provides that the data will be:
b) collected for determined, explicit, and legitimate purposes, and shall not be further processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes; in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific and historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes shall not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes (“purpose limitation”);
c) adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“data minimization”);

For its part, Recital 31 of the GDPR regarding requests from public authorities indicates the following:
Public authorities to which personal data are communicated by virtue of a legal obligation for the exercise of their official mission, such as tax and customs authorities, financial investigation units, independent administrative authorities, or financial market supervisory bodies responsible for the regulation and supervision of securities markets, must not…
Legal Office
to be considered recipients of data if they receive personal data that is necessary to carry out a specific investigation of general interest, in accordance with Union Law or the laws of the Member States. Requests for communication from public authorities must always be submitted in writing, with justification and on an occasional basis, and must not refer to the entirety of a file nor lead to the interconnection of several files. The processing of personal data by such public authorities must comply with the applicable data protection regulations based on the purpose of the processing.

And Recital 39 of the GDPR regarding the necessity of processing indicates that: 
Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by other means.

In this regard, the recent CJEU ruling of August 1, 2022, Case C-184/20, states that:    
With regard to the requirement of necessity, as per Recital 39 of the GDPR, it follows that this requirement is met when the general interest objective pursued cannot be reasonably achieved with the same effectiveness by other means that are less restrictive of the fundamental rights of the data subjects, particularly the rights to respect for private life and to the protection of personal data guaranteed in Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter, since exceptions and limitations in relation to the principle of protection of such data must be applied only to the extent that it is strictly necessary (see, in this regard, judgment of June 22, 2021, Latvijas Republikas Saeima (Penalty Points), C-439/19, EU:C:2021:504, paragraph 110 and cited case law).

Well, in reference to the content of the information request that is being analyzed and in relation to the fulfillment of the functions assigned to the SCIB, it is appropriate to mention prior to the substantive analysis of the matter that this Agency has ruled in other cases that, due to their similarity, it is necessary to bring to attention, specifically those related to requests from the tax authority (AEAT, ONIF, etc.) and the “tax relevance” of the data that will be subject to processing.

In the present case, mutatis mutandis, the “economic-financial and accounting relevance” of the data requested by the Audit Office of the Balearic Islands will be a fundamental element.

c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
11

                                                           Legal Office
Thus, in Report 369_2015, the following was indicated regarding whether the specific request serves the purpose of processing either directly, indirectly, or hypothetically:
(…) Given these legal precedents, it should be concluded that there is a norm with the rank of Law that provides coverage for the proposed transfer, by virtue of Article 11.2 a) of Organic Law 15/1999 in relation to Article 93 of the General Tax Law.

The only limitation to the proposed transfer would arise from the fact that the information does not have tax relevance. However, it should be noted that it is not for this Agency to determine whether or not such relevance exists; it can be added that from the wording of the question posed, it is entirely impossible to know about such a matter, and the requested data may indeed be of tax relevance for numerous taxes, even if the taxable event has not yet occurred, and in any case for the purposes of property valuation by the experts of the AEAT. This has been pointed out by the case law on numerous occasions, precisely in response to very similar requests to the one currently under review, as in the Judgment of the Supreme Court (Contentious-Administrative Chamber, Section 2) of July 29, 2000, cassation 7162/1995, or in the Judgment of the same Chamber and Section of February 3, 2001, cassation 7741/1995. The first of these examined the cassation appeal in which the original factual scenario was that “The Head of the Tax Inspection Service of the Provincial Council of Álava requested on July 2, 1992, Mr. José C. G., Real Estate Agent, holder of the Cort Real Estate Agency, to provide the following data: ‘List of properties used or under construction offered in his real estate agency on the date with indication of the owner of the offer, indication of the location, surface area, and offered sale price.’” That is to say, the same request as the one now being studied.

The judgment examines Article 111 of the former General Tax Law of 1963, but its arguments are fully applicable, as it understands that the request refers to data that has tax relevance. It cites other judgments that have addressed the issue, such as those of the same Chamber of October 31 and December 12, 1996, November 9, 1998, February 27, 1999, March 6, 1999 (two judgments from this date), May 29, 1999, July 24, 1999, and February 7, 2000, and the one dated the same as the one we are discussing (Cassation Appeal No. 7144/1995).

c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
12
Legal Office
Thus, first of all, the ruling narrows down the indeterminate legal concept of "tax relevance," fundamentally with the restriction that it does not extend to "non-asset private data, which they know by virtue of their activity, whose disclosure would harm the honor or personal and family privacy of their clients" (section 5 of the former art. 111). It concludes that (the emphasis is ours) "Information may be requested insofar as it serves or is effective in the application of taxes, obviously taking the phrase in general terms, since the regulation does not refer exclusively to the verification and investigation of a specific tax relationship, but authorizes the collection of information, both from individuals and from organizations, for anything that leads to the application of taxes. (...) Therefore, the requirement must be tempered by what is necessary for tax management and inspection. (...) For all these reasons, and as long as the requested information is aimed at the effective application of taxes, the assertion of the contested ruling that such utility may be potential, indirect, or hypothetical must be shared."

Therefore, having established that tax relevance does not necessarily refer to specific and determined taxable facts, solely for the purpose of estimating bases, but can also refer to the application of taxes even potentially, the Supreme Court understands that in this type of requests, tax relevance is evident: "Second. – Knowledge of the prices effectively agreed upon in transactions of sale, exchange, contributions to companies, inheritance succession, etc., of new or used homes and land, is fundamental to be able to verify numerous taxable facts, although different from the eventual taxable facts that may arise from the offers that Real Estate Agents mediate, since there is, without a doubt, an undeniable interconnection between the prices offered and those subsequently agreed upon, for which information about the former has an indirect tax relevance concerning future taxable facts, and even with those already realized regarding the Tax on Property Transfers, Inheritances, and Donations, VAT, Personal Income Tax, and Corporate Tax, for the purposes of completed transfers and possible increases in assets, and even for the technical preparation of the Valuation Reports, for the purposes of the Property Tax.

It also concludes that this information is useful for the valuations that the experts of the AEAT must carry out: "Fourth. – Knowledge of the real estate market not only serves for the Tax Inspection to verify effective prices, but more importantly, constitutes very useful information for the valuation reports that must be made by the officials – experts – of the Tax Administration."

It therefore concludes by dismissing the appeal for cassation filed because "It cannot be denied that such knowledge is essential for the tasks of verification and inspection of taxes, or in other words, the data and reports requested have undeniable tax relevance." (...)

For its part, in Report 181_2017, the following was indicated: 
(...) Now, as this Agency has repeatedly pointed out, the fact that a regulation with the rank of Law enables the processing or transfer of data is not by itself sufficient to consider such processing or transfer as covered by the LOPD, it is also necessary that they comply with the provisions of the aforementioned Law and, in particular, with the principles enshrined in its article 4. In this regard, the first number of that article includes the principle of proportionality by stating that "Personal data may only be collected for processing, as well as subjected to such processing, when they are adequate, relevant, and not excessive in relation to the specific, explicit, and legitimate purposes for which they have been obtained."

Given the purpose provided in the 6th Additional Provision of the TR, which is none other than to verify the inclusion or not of a certain person as a beneficiary in a social security coverage scheme that depends on the income level (art. 52.3 b) of the General Regulation on Social Security of the Armed Forces, approved by Royal Decree 1726/2007, of December 21: Not receiving income from earnings derived from work, including those of a benefit nature, and/or from movable and immovable capital exceeding double the public income indicator of multiple effects (IPREM)) and as long as the data transferred is limited to those that serve to determine the income or income level of the beneficiaries – see 6th Additional Provision, section 1 – including expressly – as necessary to identify the beneficiary – what is mentioned in section 4 of the same: name and surname, national identity document, and address, the transfer is not considered.
Legal Office
such data is inadequate, irrelevant, or excessive, as prescribed by Article 4 of the LOPD.
The report cited below goes a bit further by analyzing whether the request would fulfill the purpose of the processing by applying certain techniques such as anonymization or dissociation, to a request for information about "specially protected data" with "tax significance":
In Report 98_2016, the following was indicated:
Article 7.3 of the LOPD allows the transfer of personal data related to health without the need for the consent of the affected party when a law provides for it, and we have already considered that the General Tax Law supports the transfer of health data when it has tax significance. The description of the illness certainly constitutes a health data, but the mere mention of the existence of a medical act performed on the patient, which is reflected in the invoice, also constitutes health data of the patient. Therefore, in both cases, the right to the protection of the patient's health data would be affected, since in both cases there would be a communication to a third party of a medical act concerning the patient, permitted in this case by law. The principle of proportionality in this case must be reconciled with that of tax significance, so that the invoice must reflect the minimum necessary data to determine the tax significance of the medical act, which may include, on a case-by-case basis, as appropriately highlighted by the Resolution of the General Directorate of Taxes, the necessary description, in accordance with the criteria established in said Resolution of the DGT, to determine whether a medical act subject to or exempt from the tax has been performed.
The same answer must be given to the second question: the medical professional must provide the tax administration, in accordance with Article 93.1 of the LGT, "all kinds of data, reports, backgrounds, and justifications with tax significance related to the fulfillment of their own tax obligations or derived from their economic, professional, or financial relationships with other persons," and this is subject to the limitation that the LGT itself establishes in section 5 of that article: 5. The obligation of other professionals to provide information with tax significance to the tax administration shall not extend to non-asset private data that they know by reason of the exercise of their activity, whose disclosure would violate personal and family honor or privacy. Therefore, in the present specific case, considering that the Tax Administration has attributed "tax significance" to the data in question, which is necessary for the correct application of taxes and for the subsequent inspection work, it cannot be considered that data related to medical conditions with tax significance can be regarded as "non-asset private data."
Regarding the inquiry about whether the delivery of information that the tax administration may request can be dissociated, the answer must be based on the effectiveness that such dissociated information may have for the correct application and inspection of taxes, so that it may be considered sufficient if the tax administration deems its need satisfied with the information provided in that manner, and it will not be in the opposite case.
From what has been indicated so far, it can be concluded, first of all, that tax significance is an essential element for analyzing compliance with the principle of proportionality or minimization in relation to the purpose served by the processing. 
In the present case, this significance would be an economic-financial and accounting significance that the requests made by the SCIB to the OIAB should possess, as it will be the first element to address compliance with the principle of minimization and limitation of purpose that every data processing is subject to.
Secondly, this Agency does not have the authority to determine such "significance," but it is the requesting administration that must have previously assessed it and, if applicable, invoke it, and it is the requested entity that, through the appropriate legal channels, can challenge specific request acts or the final result of the procedure in question for infringement of the current legal framework, which obviously includes the data protection regime.
And, thirdly, it will be in judicial proceedings where such tax significance is confirmed or not (see Supreme Court Judgment of July 13, 2016), which, as we have seen, can be direct, indirect, or even hypothetical, and which is the parameter that will serve to determine whether the request serves the purpose and, consequently, whether it is proportional.
VII
The inquirer introduces into the legal debate the lack of competence of the SCIB to request information about selection processes that it has carried out, considering that it does not fall within its functions.
Legal Office
economic-financial and accounting oversight assigned to it and therefore cannot legitimize such treatment under Article 6 of the GDPR or Article 8 of the LOPDGDD.
Well, it should be indicated that the SCIB is responsible for controlling the "legality" of any act and/or procedure of the OIAB with economic-financial and accounting significance. 
This is evident from the very explanatory memorandum of its regulatory law, which states that the Audit Office is endowed with bodies with completely delineated competencies, with the aim of exercising its oversight function, not only from the perspective of legality but also inspired by the objectives of effectiveness, efficiency, and economy in the management of public funds, going even beyond the principle of "true and fair view" (which is synonymous with accuracy, objectivity, truthfulness, and compliance with legal and accounting principles).
Furthermore, the aforementioned Law in its Article 4 assigns to the SCIB the oversight of the economic-financial and accounting activity (of the Public Sector of the autonomous community), ensuring that it adheres to the principles of legality, effectiveness, efficiency, and economy.
That is to say, the actions of the SCIB serve the purpose of ensuring legality regarding the use of public funds. 
In the present case, from the reading of the request made by the SCIB, provided by the consultant, it is evident that they serve the purpose of verifying that the Personnel Expenditure resulting from any selection process is in accordance with the law. 
In other words, that the appointments of personnel in said selection procedures (insofar as they have undeniable economic-financial significance) have been carried out in accordance with the procedures that regulate them and, in the event that this is not the case, to inform about it and, if applicable, propose actions.
In this regard, and due to the similarities between the actions of the Court of Auditors and the SCIB, it is appropriate to cite an excerpt from two reports from the former in which, on the one hand, information has been requested about selection processes - just like in the present case - and, on the other hand, it concerns information about the awarding of scholarships, that is, the criteria that have been followed for the participants to be recipients.
Both reports reflect the results of the actions regarding the legality control of certain activities of two bodies subject to the control of the Court of Auditors, and despite being competitive bidding procedures, the economic-financial and accounting significance derived from them is unquestionable and is the element that calls upon said Court to perform its functions:
Report of the Court of Auditors No. 1340:
3.36. The job announcements, both in the form of competition and free designation, were published in the BOE and on the website (…). Likewise, the resolutions that resolved said announcements were published. Regarding the appointments made in the year 2016, there is no documentation justifying the selection of the appointed individuals. In the free designations made in 2017, only in one case was a document prepared and signed by the head of the corresponding Department, in which the names of the applicants for the position were listed and the appointment of one of them was proposed, without any justification for the choice of that person.
Report of the Court of Auditors No. 1338:
II.5.5.1. Scholarships for postgraduate training (…) In the management of the announcement, the following deficiencies were observed: 
The Court examined a sample of 14 scholarship application files; 7 of them were awarded in the first instance, although 3 renounced the scholarship. No significant deficiencies were observed in the documentation of the files, although it is common to find a lack of original signatures on the declarations of not being subject to a prohibition to be awarded grants, and the lack of documentary evidence of some of the claimed merits (computer skills or languages, in general).
(…).5.5.3. XXV Postgraduate Course for the Training of Specialists in Applied Social Research and Data Analysis
In the selection process of students and scholarship holders corresponding to the 2016 announcement, the following deficiencies were observed: (…) e) The list of candidates proposed by the commission does not match the order of scoring of the list provided to the Court. The commission proposed 20 candidates, who, according to the announcement, should correspond to the 20 highest-rated, but were positioned in the scoring list between positions 1 and 33. Additionally, six substitutes were selected for the position.
Legal Office
in the event of resignation of any of the holders, whose positions in the
valuation list were between 5 and 35. The minutes of the
commission do not contain the valuations of the selected candidates.
f) The call for the course did not establish objective, quantifiable criteria
for the selection of the scholarship recipients, limiting itself to
indicating that they would be granted “based on the academic merits
of the candidate, the suitability of their profile, and their professional situation.”
The commission agreed to propose the first two selected candidates for the
full scholarships, and the next six as candidates for the partial scholarships. The minutes of the commission do not provide justification for the proposed scholarship recipients. (...)
As can be observed, the Court of Auditors has requested information about
certain procedures that, in principle, might not be considered
procedures of economic content, but which undoubtedly have
economic-financial and accounting significance, as they involve the expenditure allocated to the public sector entity in question. That is to say, the control exercised is over the “legality” of the expenditure charged to a public budget.
Accepting the reductionist interpretation proposed by the consultant, these
procedures would have fallen outside the control of the Court of Auditors despite having undeniable economic-financial and
accounting significance.
That said, and in relation to the specific request made by the Court of Auditors to the consultant, the solution should be similar to that adopted in the
reports previously cited regarding “tax significance,” in the sense that it is not the Agency's role to assess whether such a request serves
directly, indirectly, or hypothetically to fulfill the oversight function assigned to the entity in question, or in other words, “whether the data has
economic-financial and accounting significance,” and therefore complies with the principles of minimization and limitation of purpose, as this is a matter that it is presumed the inspection services of the entity have evaluated. And that, if the consultant is not satisfied with the same, they may challenge the acts or resolutions on which such requests are based to reach the competent jurisdiction, which, as we have seen, has ruled on other occasions (see the extensive jurisprudence of the Supreme Court on the concept of “tax significance” and its application to specific cases).
VIII
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
19

                                                           Legal Office
Now, the Agency has stated the requirements that must be met
by the information requests made by public authorities in the
exercise of their functions, in the sense that they must be specific, justified,
and not involve a massive transfer of data. And in that justification, it must be indicated whether the request serves the purpose of the processing in question.
All of this is closely related to the principle of proportionality, and as indicated in Report 59/2021, the following was stated:
Likewise, regarding the principle of proportionality, the Judgment of the
Constitutional Court 14/2003, of January 28, recalls the following:
“In other words, in accordance with a reiterated doctrine of this
Court, the constitutionality of any measure restricting fundamental rights is determined by the strict observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes that matter here, it is sufficient to recall that, to verify whether a restrictive measure of a fundamental right passes the proportionality test, it is necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three requirements or conditions: whether the measure is capable of achieving the proposed objective (suitability test); whether, in addition, it is necessary, in the sense that there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such a purpose with equal effectiveness (necessity test); and, finally, whether it is balanced or proportionate, as it derives more benefits or advantages for the general interest than harms to other conflicting goods or values (strict proportionality test; SSTC 66/1995, of May 8 [RTC 1995, 66], F. 5; 55/1996, of March 28 [RTC 1996, 55], FF. 7, 8, and 9; 270/1996, of December 16 [RTC 1996, 270], F. 4.e; 37/1998, of February 17 [RTC 1998, 37], F. 8; 186/2000, of July 10 [RTC 2000, 186], F. 6).”
From the above transcribed text, and from the rest of the legal reasoning
contained in STC 17/2013, and from the principle of proportionality, it follows
that the TC has determined that (i) indiscriminate and massive access to personal data must be avoided (ii) the requested data must be relevant and necessary (iii) for the purpose established in the provision (iv) the request for access to the specific personal data must be justified and expressly motivated, (v) in such a way that it allows for its control by the transferor (vi) and prevents an abusive use of that power with massive accesses. This implies (vii) that the possibility of analyzing whether in each specific case the access was covered by what is established in the law must be guaranteed.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
20
Legal Office
(…) Therefore, the relevance and necessity of the processing must be adequately and expressly justified by the data requester (…)
It is appropriate to cite again Recital 39: “Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by other means.”
All of this is without prejudice to the fact that any alternative adopted (pseudonymization or anonymization) cannot diminish the effectiveness of the request, that is, it cannot empty the requirement of its content in such a way that it prevents the supervisory body from fulfilling the functions that are constitutionally and legally assigned to it.
IX
Regarding pseudonymization and dissociation or anonymization, it must be taken into account, on one hand, what is indicated in the GDPR, which in its Article 4.5 considers “pseudonymization” as the processing of personal data in such a way that they can no longer be attributed to a data subject without using additional information, provided that such additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organizational measures intended to ensure that personal data is not attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person;
And Recital 26 indicates to us that: Pseudonymized personal data, which could be attributed to a natural person through the use of additional information, must be considered information about an identifiable natural person. To determine whether a natural person is identifiable, all means, such as singling out, that the data controller or any other person may reasonably use to identify the natural person directly or indirectly must be taken into account. To determine whether there is a reasonable likelihood that means will be used to identify a natural person, all objective factors, such as the costs and time necessary for identification, must be considered, taking into account both the technology available at the time of processing and technological advancements. Therefore, data protection principles should not apply to anonymous information, that is, information that does not relate to an identified or identifiable natural person, nor to data converted into anonymous form in such a way that the data subject is no longer identifiable, or ceases to be so.
On the other hand, the concept of dissociated data was already found in Article 5 of Royal Decree 1720/2007, of December 21, which approves the Regulation for the development of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the protection of personal data, in force insofar as it does not oppose the GDPR, in which subsection 1.e) considered as such: one that does not allow the identification of an affected or interested party, that is, a dissociated data would be an anonymized data since it prevents its reversal, and therefore, the holder can no longer be identified.
Consequently, only the GDPR and the LOPDGDD would apply to pseudonymized data.
That said, it is appropriate to address the analysis of the specific request on which the OIAB focuses its inquiry, referring to the language proficiency certificates, and based on its content, it should be indicated that what the SCIB does is specify the request it made previously.
Initially, it requests:
 h) A copy of the documentation certifying the levels of Catalan of the staff as of the date of receipt of this letter and where the date of obtaining the level is indicated.; 
And this Agency, unaware of the response from the OAIB, in a second instance, the SCIB indicates in the requirement and requests the following:
the certificate sent on April 22, 2022 does not respond to the request, since it only certifies that the officials of the Office either had, during 2021, the accreditation of the level of Catalan provided for in the corresponding calls for job provision, or were in the situation provided for in subsection 1 of the sixth additional provision of Decree 11/2017, of March 24 (…)
It is reiterated, therefore, the request of point 4.h: “A copy of the documentation certifying the levels of Catalan of the staff, as of the date of receipt of this letter, and where the date of obtaining the level is indicated.” 
(…) the documentation must be sent omitting the personal identification data of the worker, but the position must be stated and must be identified with the personal number chosen by the Office. On the other hand, all the documentation in subsection 4.d related to this worker must be identified with the same numbering.”
Therefore, it is observed that the SCIB, in light of the documentation received, opts for reiteration and specification and clearly indicates that the data must be pseudonymized by stating that identification data will be omitted, but assigned with a number chosen by the office and that the other information must be
Legal Office
referring to that number. That is to say, the pseudonymization of the personal data contained in the response to the request is chosen.
As we stated in our Report 98_2016, techniques such as pseudonymization or even anonymization may be applied to personal data, as long as the effectiveness of the purpose for which the data processing is carried out is not undermined. In other words, if in the response to the SCIB's request, the OIAB provides information in such a way that it prevents the exercise of its functions, it would not be in accordance with the law.
Contrary to what the applicant claims, pseudonymized data is indeed being requested, with the caveat that all information must be attributed to the same numbering chosen by the OIAB, as otherwise it seems impossible to "control" that certain documentation corresponds to a specific subject.
Consequently, it is understood that the data is necessary and not excessive (Recital 39 GDPR), as otherwise the SCIB would not be able to carry out its functions of controlling the legality of those acts that have economic-financial and accounting significance, such as the appointments of its personnel.
In this regard, the recent CJEU ruling of August 1, 2022, Case C-184/20, states that:
Regarding the requirement of necessity, Recital 39 of the GDPR indicates that this requirement is met when the general interest objective pursued cannot be reasonably achieved with the same effectiveness by other means that are less restrictive of the fundamental rights of the data subjects.
The applicant points out that the use of personal data to which the SCIB has access for inclusion in a report published on the web could be contrary to the principle of purpose limitation provided for in Article 5.1(b) of the GDPR, which states that personal data shall be:
b) collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes, and not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes;
The applicant argues that they do not have the authorization of the participants in the selection processes for their data to be published in a report on a third party's website, namely, the SCIB. And it is also not a processing activity that is recorded in the Register of Processing Activities published on the OIAB's own website.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
23

                                                           Legal Office
Well, as a starting point, it should be noted that from the reading of the reports whose links to the websites are provided in the consultation, there is no indication that there are personal data nor that value judgments are made; it only collects objective facts. A different matter is whether these reports are the result of certain processing of personal data.
Therefore, compliance with the principle of purpose limitation should be confined solely to the compatibility of participation in the selection process in question, with the communication of such data to a third party, a public authority that exercises supervisory and control functions in accordance with the applicable regulations.
In Opinion 3/2013 of April 2, on Purpose Limitation approved by the Article 29 Working Party (currently replaced by the European Data Protection Committee, EDPB), it indicates that:
The fact that further processing has a different purpose does not necessarily mean that it is automatically incompatible: this must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
In addition to the regulatory framework that assigns oversight functions to the SCIB, which has been cited throughout this report, Article 12 of the law regulating the SCIB under the heading "Audit reports or memoranda" states the following:
1. The results of the auditing actions shall be presented through reports or memoranda, the content of which must primarily refer to:
a) Compliance with the legal system and applicable accounting principles, as well as the subjection of economic-financial management to the principles of effectiveness, efficiency, and economy.
(…)
c) The results of the audit of contracts, the situation and variations of the assets, the application of subsidies, credits, aid, or guarantees, indicating, where appropriate, the incidents or deviations observed regarding the reasons that justified their granting, and their causes.
d) The existence, where applicable, of infringements, abuses, or irregular practices that must be corrected or sanctioned.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
24
Legal Office
e) The measures that, if applicable, are proposed for the improvement of the economic and financial management of public sector entities in the Balearic Islands.
That is to say, the processing of data that may be carried out to prepare the results of the audit and reflect them in a report is expressly provided for by law.
On the other hand, from the perspective of the holder of the personal data who has participated in selection processes and who has ultimately been awarded the positions called for, another element must be brought to attention that is fundamental when analyzing the compatibility or incompatibility of a processing operation, and that is none other than the expectation of privacy or foreseeability in the processing.
In the aforementioned Opinion 3/2013 on Purpose Limitation, it is indicated regarding foreseeability that:
Foreseeability is also relevant when assessing the compatibility of subsequent processing activities. In general, subsequent processing cannot be considered foreseeable if it is not sufficiently related to the initial purpose and does not meet the reasonable expectations of the data subjects at the time of collection, based on the context of the collection.
And it proposes several factors to consider when evaluating compatibility, among which the following stand out:
a) the relationship between the purposes for which the data was collected and the purposes of subsequent processing
This may encompass situations where the new processing was already more or less implicit in the initial purposes, or as a logical next step in the processing based on those purposes, as well as situations where there is only a partial or nonexistent link with the initial purposes. In any case, the greater the distance between the purposes of the collection and the purposes of subsequent processing, the more problematic the evaluation of compatibility will be.
Indeed, when a person voluntarily decides to participate in a selection process called by a public administration (with the aim of ultimately being appointed to the position in question), they must be aware that such action has legal consequences, such as submission to a new legal status, and that a normative framework will apply to them directly or indirectly that would not otherwise exist. That is to say, they will become part of a public organization that is subject to a specific legal regime from which personal data processing derives.
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
25

                                                           Legal Office
Another factor proposed by the opinion is b) the context in which the data was collected and the reasonable expectations of the data subjects regarding its subsequent use
The second factor focuses on the specific context in which the data was collected and on the reasonable expectations of the data subjects regarding its subsequent use based on that context. In other words, the issue is what a reasonable person in the situation of the data subjects expects their data to be used for in the context of the collection.
(…) In all these cases, it is also important to consider whether the status of the data controller, the nature of the relationship or the service provided, or the applicable legal or contractual obligations (or other promises made at the time of collection) could give rise to reasonable expectations of stricter confidentiality and stricter limitations on use. In general, the more specific and restrictive the context of collection is, the more likely it is that stricter limitations will continue to be applied. Once again, it is necessary to take into account the factual context rather than simply relying on fine print.
When evaluating the context in which the data was collected and the reasonable expectations of the data subject regarding its use, due attention must also be paid to the transparency of the processing (including the type and content of the information initially or subsequently provided to the data subject), as well as whether the subsequent processing has been based on legal provisions. In this latter case, legal certainty and foreseeability in general could suggest that the subsequent use is appropriate, even if the data subjects may not have been aware of all the consequences.
Indeed, the laws regulating both access to public service and the status of public officials, as well as the laws establishing a regime of control and auditing of public sector entities, provide that certain actions that involve the processing of personal data may and, if applicable, must be carried out. These laws are subject to the principle of publicity of norms, which contributes to legal certainty and ultimately ensures that the actions of public authorities are known to citizens and, therefore, foreseeable.
Among those actions are those processing operations that involve the knowledge of certain information by the authorities.
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
26
Legal Office
competent in the exercise of their functions and under certain assumptions of
not only their names and surnames but also any other information generated or
provided in the procedure that is being audited.
Consequently, the processing currently carried out by the SCIB cannot
be deemed to violate the expectation of privacy of the participants in the
selection processes convened by the OAIB, nor even less so of the officials of
said organization.
Above all, if we take into account that the information accessed is
pseudonymized and that the reports published on the SCIB website do not
contain personal data.
In relation to this last aspect, Opinion 3/2013 proposes another factor to
consider in the compatibility assessment, which is
d) the safeguards applied by the data controller to
ensure fair processing and prevent any undue impact
on the data subjects.
the appropriate complementary measures could, in principle, serve as a
“compensation” for a change of purpose, or for the purposes not being
clearly specified at the outset, as they should have been.
This could require technical or organizational measures to ensure
functional separation (such as partial or total anonymization, pseudonymization, and data aggregation).
As just indicated, the SCIB requests pseudonymized information and it is
not stated that personal data is published in the reports, nor value judgments
about them, but rather objective facts that are derived from those under the
protection of the functions that are legally attributed to it.
In conclusion, the processing of personal data consisting of
communication to the authorities that exercise supervisory and control
functions is not incompatible with the initial purpose of the processing.
Accepting the interpretation of the inquirer, for example, the General
Treasury of Social Security or the Tax Agency could not access
data of the workers of a company, and would cease to perform their functions,
since the initial purpose for which the data was incorporated by the
employer was different, that of providing the employment relationship, an
argument that must be rejected. As previously indicated, the data subject
must be aware that when the data controller is subject to a specific legal
regime, there is a possibility that their data is
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
27

                                                           Legal Office
processed, in addition to the initial purpose, for compliance with the legal
regime applicable to that data controller.
Finally, another aspect mentioned by the inquirer regarding the communication of
personal data of the participants in the selection processes convened and,
where applicable, of the successful candidates for the positions, is that it neither has
their consent nor is such processing provided for in the Record of
Processing Activities (RAT).
Both circumstances cannot be an obstacle for the SCIB to carry out its
attributions, for the simple reason that there is a legal basis for the
processing in question as has been demonstrated throughout this
report (Article 6.1 c) and e GDPR), and therefore, the consent of the
affected parties is not necessary and regarding the RAT, because it is an obligation
that falls on the data controller and that derives not only from Article
30 of the GDPR and 31 of the LOPDGDD, but from the very principle of
active accountability, to maintain a RAT that is duly updated and that is
a faithful reflection of the data processing that is carried out.
The inquirer states that a section of the Record of
processing activities of the Office on job provision is included in which it is indicated that the only recipients of the personal data are:
National Institute of Public Administration, Central Personnel Registry,
Entity entrusted with the management of occupational risk,
BOE – BOIB.
Well, and to the extent that it is the responsibility of the OAIB to prepare a RAT that reflects
the data processing that is actually carried out, and especially with the
provisions of Article 30.1 d) GDPR, the solution is simple and consists of
providing in that RAT for the communication of certain data to public
authorities in the exercise of their functions.
It is appropriate to bring up the expression Nemo auditur propriam turpitudinem
allegans according to which no one can allege their own wrongdoing or take advantage of their own negligence or deceit, in the sense that the OAIB cannot, under the pretext
of being faithful to what is stated in its RAT, fail to fulfill its legal obligations
to the SCIB because the type of processing consisting of the communication of data to public authorities, in this
case the SCIB, is not indicated in the RAT, when it turns out that the only
responsible party for deciding how to configure the content of the RAT is precisely the OAIB as the data controller.
XI
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
28
Legal Office
Finally, it is appropriate to address the analysis regarding the treatment of special categories of data indicated by the consultant. 
In the GDPR, Article 9 indicates what special categories of data are, with a special protection regime based on a general prohibition of processing and a system of exceptions in its paragraph 2. 
Specifically, the provision states in its paragraph 1 that: 
The processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, as well as the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health, or data concerning the sexual life or sexual orientation of a natural person is prohibited. 
Well, it is worth noting that, in the present case, the specific situations that lift the prohibition on processing special categories of data, as provided in paragraph 2 of the aforementioned provision, will not be analyzed in detail, since the terms of the inquiry do not suggest that such data is indeed being processed. 
In fact, the consultant indicates that in the request made by the SCIB, “curricula and reports of the candidates are included, which may contain political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union affiliation,” but it limits itself to making such statements without any apparent explanation that leads to the conviction that this is the case. 
It only indicates that “(...) In many cases, such statements are made to deny membership in political or religious organizations, which is also a political or religious opinion, even if it is to deny them. It must be taken into account that the candidates express such opinions to support their candidacy since, although it is not a requirement, they assume that a high degree of independence is required. (...) 
Well, neither in Law 16/2016, of December 9, creating the OAIB, nor in the Internal Regulations and Operating Regime of the OAIB, is there any provision that imposes the obligation on participants in the selection processes to disclose information revealing special categories of data. 
There is only one indication in this regard in Article 17.3 of the law, but it refers to the director or director of the OAIB, which states that: 
3. They cannot be affiliated with any political party, union, or business association at the time of their appointment. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
29

                                                           Legal Office
For employees, there is no indication that participation in selection processes and, where applicable, appointment as officials of the OAIB requires the provision of information containing special categories of data. 
In fact, nothing is stated in the Regulations, nor in Article 62 “Personnel at the Service of the Office,” nor in Article 66 referring to the “Provision or Occupation of Positions,” or even in Article 68, relating to the “Incompatibilities” of OAIB personnel. 
Therefore, any information revealing special categories of data, if it exists, must be considered to have been provided absolutely freely and voluntarily, since, as we have seen, nothing in the regulations requires this. 
Conversely, if the OAIB requests special categories of data without this being provided for in the regulations, and conditions a public employee appointment on the information provided, it would severely violate the legal order, both at a general level and at a particular level, as a special protection regime is provided for this type of data. 
For this reason, it must be understood that its provision is voluntary, and thus it is pertinent to bring up what Article 9.2 e) of the GDPR states, according to which the prohibition on processing special categories of data does not apply when the processing relates to personal data that the data subject has made manifestly public; All this without prejudice to the duty of secrecy or confidentiality that applies to public officials regarding the information they become aware of in the exercise of their functions (whether they are members of a Qualifying Tribunal or a Valuation Commission in the job provision procedures convened by the OAIB, or whether they are members of a control and supervision body such as the SCIB), in addition to the duty of confidentiality that arises from Article 5.1 f) of the GDPR itself. 
It should be added that, in the event of processing special categories of data, not only should the SCIB have a legal basis for such processing, but the OAIB itself should justify the reason for requiring such information when it is not provided for in its regulatory framework. 
Consequently, it cannot be affirmed that the request made by the SCIB contained special categories of data, and that, if this were the case, it must be considered that they have been provided voluntarily by the interested parties. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
30