 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

February 14, 2019

 

 

  Students develop solutions for data protection

 

 
How can users of apps and internet services for data
raise awareness of data protection and support it with tools? This question went
Business Informatics students who, at the end of their apprenticeship
event now presented the solutions they had developed.
 
For the second time, students of a course of study
head of department Prof. Dr. Tobias Straub in detail with questions from the area
of data protection. In doing so, they continued the cooperation that began in 2017 with
Authority of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Baden-
Württemberg continued. In a total of eight teams, the students developed applications
ments that serve to raise awareness and training, enable self-data protection
chen as well as companies in the implementation of data protection regulations
should support.
 
Thanks to the intensive support provided by Michael, who has been a lecturer for many years
Schlegel, the students were able to master the sometimes tricky challenges
develop internal and technically demanding software solutions. Under the guidance of
Lecturer Ivana Marevic as a Scrum expert, they also learned modern ones
Know and apply agile development and project management methods.
 
At the beginning of February, the project groups presented their results in the presence of Mar-
tina Strifler as a representative of the LfDI authority. All groups could participate
comes up with a convincing solution, so that this time the jury can choose the best
ten teams was difficult. In the end, two groups were awarded:
 
Leon Ambaum, Matthias Aupperle, Franziska Brendel and Hendrik Kappler demons-
with their browser extension, how users get an overview
can keep about what personal data they submit to websites
to transfer. The new add-on "Giracy" makes it easy to
legal rights of the person concerned, for example to information or deletion of
to perceive data.

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

 
Maximilian Busic, Birk Schweppe and David Stürner realized so-called "Skills"
for Amazon's language assistant Alexa. With the help of a smart speaker that
can accept voice commands, users can
be informed about the legal requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation
senior A second skill that is not meant to be taken seriously raises awareness of the problem of
Data processing in the Amazon Cloud itself.
 
A video of interacting with Alexa and detailed descriptions of each
Works can be found at:
https://studium.dhbw-stuttgart.de/winf/student projects/privacy-by-dhbw/
 
 

 
From left to right: Ivana Marevic, Tobias Straub, Matthias Aupperle, David Stürner, Birk
Schweppe, Franziska Brendel, Hendrik Kappler, Leon Ambaum, Martina Strifler, Mi-
Chael Schlegel
 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-0.

 

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

