1/12

 Procedure No.: PS/00384/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Mr. A.A.A., on behalf of Mr. B.B.B. (hereinafter, the
claimant) on 07/30/2019 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection. The claim is directed against the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
CIVIL GUARD with NIF S2816003D (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons in which
bases the claim are, in short: the assignment without consent and the dissemination of
personal information of the affected party contained in the agreement to initiate the suspension of
your weapons license, when said document is attached in an email
sent on 09/17/2018 from the generic account, al-cmd-almeria-ia@guardiacivil.org,
ownership of the Arms Intervention Unit of the Civil Guard of Almería, to the
generic account al-pto-canjayar@guardiacivil.es, owned by the Unit of the Post of
Canjayar, in order for the interested party to be notified.

After the resolution of inadmissibility for processing, dated 09/06/2019, the claimant
files an appeal for reversal alleging that the email was sent in the
scope of work to generic recipients with sensitive personal data. that the
sender and recipient email accounts are not personal but accounts
of certain departments of the Civil Guard, being able to be consulted by
indeterminate and numerous people who are part of them.
On 10/16/2019, an approving resolution is issued.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

On 12/04/2019, the respondent sends this Agency the following information:

1. That what is called in the complaint a generic email account
it is not such That the CIVIL GUARD has an isolated private communication network
from abroad and which can only be accessed through official means within which
there is a messaging system called GroupWise in which each Unit or
Work Station may be assigned an address for exclusive use by the
staff of that Unit for internal communications and which is accessed after

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

identify yourself with a smart card and an individual password.

2. That this system is used on a regular basis for communications between the
different Units, as it is guaranteed that any communication or
documentation that is sent through it is isolated from the outside and
maintains your level of confidentiality.

3. Show your disagreement in relation to the indiscriminate transfer of data
personal. It points out that the instruction of an administrative procedure requires that
between the different bodies or departments involved in it, to share
information for the sake of being able to carry out the function assigned to the Administration (the
control of the documentation that authorizes the possession of small arms to guarantee
proper use of the same and by derivation the safety of third parties) and the right
of the company to know the facts on which such action is based and receive
complete information about it.

4. That the complainant himself was one of those who accessed said system of
courier on the date of remittance of the same together with the Sergeant commander of
post and four other civil guards. That the fact of having access to the
messaging does not imply that such an act was carried out.

5. That if after more than a year has elapsed since said communication the
complainant does not indicate that it has had transcendence and with it a damage
for him, presumably the one who agreed to it was him or those in charge of
notify you of the initiation of the procedure.

6. That regarding the Intervention of Weapons sender, access to said system of
messaging was within the reach of the personnel assigned to said unit, a total of eleven
people, which, as in the previous case, does not mean that they accessed
said document.

THIRD: On 11/08/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the
provided in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Notified of the initiation agreement, the respondent on 11/30/2020 submitted a written
of allegations pointing out that it was reiterated in the allegations made the
05/30/2020 and that the claimant's complaint refers to a mere possibility that
someone had accessed your personal data without you being able to say so, so
the alleged infractions have not materialized.

FIFTH: On 12/14/2020 a period of practice tests began,
remembering the following:

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services that are part of file E/10062/2019.
- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
filed by the defendant

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

- Ask the claimant for a copy of the documentation in their possession regarding the
sanctioning procedure that for any reason had not been provided in the
time of the claim or, if it deems it appropriate, any other manifestation in
relation to the alleged facts.

SIXTH: On 05/27/2021, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense
Next:

1. That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection addresses
warning against the defendant, for the infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the
RGPD, typified, respectively, in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the same
Regulation.

2. That the respondent be required so that, within the period determined, adopt the
necessary measures to adapt the treatment operations carried out to the
personal data protection regulations, with the scope expressed in the
Fundamentals of Rights of the proposed resolution.

SEVENTH: Notification to the claimed entity of the aforementioned resolution proposal, with
date 06/07/2021, this Agency received a letter of allegations in which
states again that it has not been proven that a third party had
knowledge of the personal data, nor the damage caused to the claimant.

On the other hand, in relation to the transfer of information from one managing body to another,
Actions have been put in place to avoid future repetitions, such as the Circular
prepared by the Data Protection Delegate (DPD), indicated with the number
DPD 1-2020, of 12/01/2020, which has been disseminated to all Units and will be
is available on the DPD intranet.

Provide a copy of this Circular, in which the following is stated:

“Regarding the first question, guarantee confidentiality, provided that it is attached to a
electronic communication documentation that includes personal data, especially when the
they contain health data (medical, psychological or health documentation of any
Type); related to criminal or administrative sanctions (sentences, notification of sanctions,
disciplinary proceedings); or referring to actions derived from the foregoing (withdrawal of
weapons, citations to appear, etc.), must be sent in encrypted folders with
password that will be provided prior identification of the applicant as belonging to the
Recipient Unit or Body as the one that must resolve the issue, and should not be provided
to intermediary units or bodies that do not need to know the specific content of the
documentation for its processing, limiting to the maximum the number of people who
access it and must be able, if necessary, to respond to a
complaint to identify those who have accessed it.

In those cases in which it is documentation that must be delivered to the
interested, it will be ensured that said delivery is made guaranteeing the maximum possible reserve and
that this be carried out by their direct command, avoiding that it be carried out by personnel who
performs bureaucratic tasks, unless said delivery materializes in a sealed envelope; in
In these cases, it must be stated on the receipt that the receiver receives the documentation with
such guarantees of confidentiality.

When it comes to documents that must be signed by the interested party and returned to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

sending unit or body, what is stated in the previous paragraph will be observed for the delivery and
signature; and the aforementioned measures will be adopted for their return through
electronic communications.

In those cases in which other means of communication, postal, etc., are used,
adopt analogous measures adapted to the environment, always with the aim of guaranteeing the
confidentiality of personal data.

Improper practices such as printing and keeping a copy of the documentation must be avoided.
forwarded or delivered, which compromise and make it difficult to maintain the confidentiality of said information.
information over time.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, there have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Dated 09/17/2018, from the email address al-cmd-
almeria-ia@guardiacivil.org, assigned to the Arms Intervention Unit of the
Guardia Civil de Almería, an email was sent to the address al-pt-
canjayar@guardiacivil.es, belonging to the Canjayar Post Unit, with the
matter “Rev. Agreement to start the suspension of a weapons license type... (type of license, name,
surnames and DNI of the claimant) for notification to the interested party”.

The text of the message is as follows:

“Notification is sent for its delivery to the interested party, and a copy dated and
signed from its reception to this I.A., for its remission to the Zone Headquarters, as
is indicated in the e.c. attached".

This email attached the document to which your subject refers, which corresponds to
agreement to initiate the procedure for the suspension of the weapons license initiated at the
claimant by the General Directorate of the Civil Guard. In this document there are
the identification data of the claimant, his administrative situation and destination, as well as
all the factual circumstances that determined the initiation of said
procedure (police and judicial actions followed against the claimant for
gender violence).

SECOND: The respondent has informed this Agency that it has a system of
courier that assigns to each unit or position an address for exclusive use by the
staff of the unit in question. In the case of the email address
corresponding to the Canjayar Post Unit, it is indicated that it could be
accessed by the Sergeant Commander of the post, the claimant and four guards
more civilians.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

II

"two. Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:
(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
(…)”.

In the first place, article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them that of "integrity and
confidentiality”:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of personal data,
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss,
accidental destruction or damage, through the application of technical or organizational measures
appropriate (“integrity and confidentiality”).
(…)”.

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the LOPDGDD, states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all the people who
intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of confidentiality to which
refers to article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to the duties
of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even when
the relationship of the obligor with the person responsible or in charge of the treatment had ended.

III

The documentation in the file proves that the defendant violated the
article 5 of the RGPD, principles relating to treatment, in conjunction with article 5 of
the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality, materialized in the dissemination of data of
personal nature relating to the claimant contained in the initiation agreement
suspension of his gun license, attached to an email that was

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

sent to the generic account al-pto-canjayar@guardiacivil.es, which is owned by the
Unit of the Post of Canjayar (Almería), which was within reach and could be
accessed by the staff assigned to said unit, a total of five people,
in addition to the claimant.

This duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, is intended to
prevent leaks of data not consented to by the holders of the data.
themselves.

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not only on the
responsible and in charge of the treatment but to anyone who intervenes in any
phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

The respondent has argued that there is no indiscriminate transfer of data
and that the instruction of an administrative procedure requires that
different administrative units or departments share information. Without
However, what happens in this case does not fit this scheme, because the
information regarding the complainant is not forwarded to a unit that intervenes
formally in the proceeding against it.

Likewise, the respondent has stated that the proceedings do not prove that a
third party has accessed confidential information relating to the complainant. Nevertheless,
does not take into account the factual circumstances that have given rise to this
process. In this case, it is clear that the notification of the agreement to start opening
of a weapons license suspension procedure, followed against the
claimant, was sent to a generic email account, owned by the
Unit of the Canjayar Post, in order to be delivered to the interested party,
that is, to the claimant. This shipment, in itself considered, already supposes an infraction
to the personal data protection regulations, to the extent that it enables the
access to information relating to the claimant by third parties. Besides, the
formalization or completion of this procedure, with the delivery of the agreement to the
claimant, implies that a third party or several accessed the information. To this
In this regard, it is advisable to reproduce again the instructions contained in the
mentioned email about the delivery of the documentation:

“Notification is sent for its delivery to the interested party, and a copy dated and
signed from its reception to this I.A., for its remission to the Zone Headquarters, as
is indicated in the e.c. attached".

IV

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned
article 83 of the aforementioned RGPD, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72 indicates:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

“Infringements considered very serious:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established in the
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”.

v

Second, article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:

  "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature, the
scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability and severity
variables for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person in charge and the person in charge
of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level
appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a
fast in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures
technical and organizational to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the level of security, particular consideration will be given to the
risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a consequence of the
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data,
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such
data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a mechanism of
certification approved under article 42 may serve as an element to demonstrate the
compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and having access
to personal data can only process said data following the instructions of the person in charge,
unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in article 83.4.a)
of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and
43.
(…)”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Law constitute infractions.
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to this
organic Law".

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements considered
serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)
g) The breach, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence, of the measures
technical and organizational that had been implemented in accordance with the requirements of article 32.1
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”.

SAW

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as “all
those breaches of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

From the documentation in the file, it is proven that the respondent has
violated article 32.1 of the RGPD, when a security incident occurred
consisting of transferring the claimant's data through a corporate email
that was accessible to all members of the recipient unit.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of the
security measures that are applicable according to the data that are subject
of treatment, but establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, pointing out that the determination of technical measures and
organizational must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the provisions of the
this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the risks inherent to the
treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption. These measures must guarantee
an adequate level of security, including confidentiality, taking into account the state of
the technique and cost of its application with respect to the risks and the nature of the data
personal to be protected. When assessing the risk in relation to the safety of the
data, the risks arising from the processing of the data must be taken into account
such as accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access
to said data, susceptible in particular to cause physical, material or
immaterial”.

In the present case, as evidenced by the facts and in the framework of the file of
investigation E/10062/2019, the claim filed was transferred to the defendant
for analysis, requesting the provision of information related to the incident
claimed in which it shows its disagreement with the indiscriminate transfer of data,
although it states that access to the internal messaging system was within the reach of the
staff assigned to that unit.

The liability of the claimed party is determined by the security breach
disclosed by the claimant. The respondent is responsible for taking
decisions aimed at effectively implementing technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
to ensure the confidentiality of the data and, among them, those aimed at restoring the
availability and access to data quickly in the event of a physical incident or
technical. However, from the documentation provided prior to the processing
of the procedure, it is not known whether any steps had been taken to put
end to incidents such as the one that gave rise to the claim.

In accordance with the foregoing, it appears that the respondent is responsible for the
infringement of the RGPD for the violation of article 32, infringement typified in the
Article 83.4.a) of the same Regulation.

7th

However, also the LOPDGDD in its article 77, "Regime applicable to
certain categories of data controllers or processors”, establishes the
Next:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions of the
autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the autonomous communities
and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or dependent on the
Public administrations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are related
with the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 commit any of the
the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the authority of
protection of data that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning them with
warning. The resolution will also establish the measures to be adopted so that
stop the behavior or correct the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
It will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
app.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and directors, and the
existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that had not been
duly attended to, the resolution in which the sanction is imposed will include a
reprimand with the name of the responsible position and the publication will be ordered in the
Official Gazette of the corresponding State or Autonomous Community.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that fall
in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the preceding sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under the
this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the entities
of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority,
It will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what its regulations have
specific”.

It should be noted that the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of
warn the person responsible for the infraction and require him to adapt the treatments
of personal data that do not meet your expectations, when those responsible or
data processors listed in section 1 committed any of the
infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this Organic Law.

For this reason, a resolution proposal was prepared so that it is agreed to require the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

responsible entity the adoption of the necessary measures to carry out that
adaptation to the personal data protection regulations, preventing the
administrative actions that you carry out can be accessed by people who do not
intervene directly in its formalization. Specifically, when it comes to
administrative notifications, it was warned that such notifications are delivered
directly to the interested party, without the intermediation of other units unrelated to those
have entrusted the action in question; or, if you try that
notification with the collaboration of some other unit, always avoiding that it
can access the content of the act that is notified.

Known this response by the respondent, on the occasion of the hearing process
granted provided a copy of a "Circular" issued by the DPD, regarding the sending of
documentation through electronic communications. Analyzed this Circular
note some improvements in their forecasts, such as the encryption of folders to which
It will be accessed using the password provided to the interested party. However, there are
other instructions that do not meet the requirements mentioned above, such as
are the delivery of documentation through the "direct control" of the interested party or the
sending “open” documents to be signed by the interested party and
returned to the sending unit. The same Circular warns about "practices
inappropriate such as printing or keeping a copy” of the submitted documentation, which
is equivalent to recognizing that the possibility that a third party may access the
documentation is maintained.

Therefore, it is deemed appropriate to require the respondent so that the notifications
that must practice guarantee the confidentiality of the personal data that
they contain.

In this regard, it is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body
can be considered as a serious administrative infraction by “not cooperating with
the Control Authority” before the requirements made, being able to be valued such
conduct at the time of opening an administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS A WARNING to the entity GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF
LA GUARDIA CIVIL, with NIF S2816003D, for an infraction of articles 5.1.f) and
32 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD, respectively.

SECOND: REQUEST the entity DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF THE CIVIL GUARD,
so that, within a period of one month, counted from the notification of this
resolution, adapt to the personal data protection regulations the operations
processing of personal data that it carries out, with the scope expressed in the
Foundation of Law VII. Within the indicated period, the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
GUARDIA CIVIL must justify before this Spanish Data Protection Agency
attention to this request.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF THE
CIVIL GUARD.

FOURTH
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

