 

press release

New "Corona Regulation"

Notes from the TLfDI on

Registration of guests in restaurants

 

 

 

Erfurt, June 18, 2020

On June 9, 2020, the Thuringian Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Health,
Women and Family (TMASGFF) the Thuringian Ordinance to Contain
spread of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, which came into force on June 13, 2020
kicked.
 
The regulation stipulates, among other things, that restaurant operators must provide the contact details of their
guests need to register. The aim and purpose of this regulation is to protect infected persons
and ways of infection as early as possible in order to prevent further spread
to prevent or contain the spread of the coronavirus.
 
Since the TLfDI received numerous complaints, particularly from guests of guest
non-profit businesses are available, the TLfDI points out with reference to its press releases
notification of May 19, 2020 again to the following data protection regulations
there:
 
The General Data Protection Regulation applies to keeping the required "guest lists".
(DS-GVO), i.e. every guest who is asked to provide their contact details
must provide complete information in accordance with Art. 13 GDPR
will. Depending on the circumstances, this can be a clearly visible notice in the restaurant
or by means of a corresponding leaflet that is given to the guest
becomes. On the other requirements of Art. 13 GDPR
please refer:
https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/kp/dsk_kpnr_10.pdf
 
The storage period specified in the regulation is 4 weeks. After that have to
the data will be completely deleted immediately. The specific purpose of
collected guest data according to art. 5 para. 1 letter b) DS-GVO is in § 3 para. 4 sentence
4 of the regulation: "The contact details may only be used for infectious
processed for intellectual property purposes; further processing to others
purposes, in particular for advertising and marketing purposes, is not permitted."
 

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
Fax: 0361 57 3112904
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 2 -

 
 
The guest data collected must be processed in such a way that third parties cannot
Have insight into the data already recorded by other guests. In this respect, it is often
used related word guest-"lists" misleadingly. Because the innkeeper
should, for data protection reasons, not keep a list in which one after the other
enter all guests. This would be a breach of privacy, as so everyone
guest would see the data of the other guests. Therefore, individual "reporting sheets" should
ter” can be used. The registration sheets can be collected daily in a folder
and this folder is closed after the 4-week retention period has expired.
be destroyed.
 During this time, the registration forms must be kept safe and locked.
You may not only temporarily z. B. be placed behind the counter, where they
are exposed to possible access by unauthorized persons.
Destruction by shredding must be done in such a way that the individual parts are not
are more readable or recomposable. Under no circumstances shall a "destruction"
of registration forms by simply throwing them in the dustbin!
 
To protect data protection, the TLfDI recommends that the guest lists or registration
paper form, as apps, clouds or similar increase the risk of data
ten loss, hacking etc. and also entail additional difficulties
ride, such as the conclusion of an order processing contract and the takeover
responsibility for technical security.
 
The use of the Corona-Warn-App by guests may under no circumstances
be made so that guests are allowed to enter a restaurant.
 
 
 

 

 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

 

