1/13

 Procedure No.: PS/00430/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the JEREZ CAPITAL ASSOCIATION, with CIF.: G01621408, owner of the website:
http://www.empleojerez.es, (hereinafter, "the claimed party"), by virtue of the
claim filed by A.A.A., in the name and on behalf of the PARTY
SPANISH SOCIALIST WORKERS, (PSOE) OF JEREZ DE LA FRONTERA (in
hereinafter, "the claimant party"), for alleged violation of the regulations of
data protection, and taking into account the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On 10/06/20, a written claim entered this Agency,
which, among others, stated:

“On the web: http://www.empleojerez.es they collect personal data. This portal does not
complies with current regulations on Data Protection, in what is
refers to the "Privacy Policy", the "Cookies Policy" and the security of the
Web".

SECOND: On 11/18/20 and 11/30/20, this Agency sent
two separate writings to the entity claimed requesting information regarding the
claim filed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the protection of personal data and guarantee of
digital rights, ("LOPDGDD").

According to a certificate from the Electronic Notifications and Electronic Address Service, the
request sent to the claimed entity, on 11/18/20, through the service of
NOTIFIC@ notifications, was rejected at destination on 11/29/20.

According to a certificate from the State Post and Telegraph Society, the requirement
sent to the claimed entity, on 11/30/20, through the SICER service, it was
returned to destination, with the message “unknown”, on 12/18/20.

THIRD: On 02/03/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreement is issued for the admission of processing of the claim
presented, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD Law, when assessing possible
reasonable indications of a violation of the rules in the field of competences
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

FOURTH: On 07/06/21, this Agency carried out the following
checks on the claimed website, http://www.empleojerez.es:

a.- On the level of security in the processing of personal data on the web:

When accessing the web page, the Chrome browser warns that the page is not
secure, because it uses the security protocol "http://" for its communications,
offering the following message:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

“Not secure: We recommend that you do not enter personal or private information
in this page. If possible, please do not use this website. It is not safe: be careful.
The connection of this website has some serious privacy problem. it's possible
that another user can see the information you send or receive through this site.

You may see a "Login not secure" or "Payment not secure" message.
Dangerous: Avoid this website. If a red warning screen appears
that occupies the entire page, it means that the Safe Browsing function has marked the
website as not secure. Your information is very likely to be compromised by
use it”.

b.- Regarding the processing of personal data:

1.- Through the existing link at the top of the main page,
<<register>>, the website displays a form where you can enter data
personal, such as name, email. Before submitting the form
You must check the box: “_ I agree to the <<terms of use>>”.

2.- Personal data of users can also be obtained through the
<<contact us>> tab, http://www.empleojerez.es/contact-us/, located
at the bottom of the main page, where personal data can be included
such as name, email, phone number and the subject to be discussed.

c.- About the “Privacy Policy”:

1.- Through the link, <<conditions of use>>, located in the registration form or
registration and at the bottom of the main page, the web redirects to a new
page, http://www.empleojerez.es/politica-de-privacidad/, where it is reported, among
others, of the following aspects:

Regarding the identification of the person responsible for the web, it is indicated that: The address of
our website is: http://www.empleojerez.es.

In addition, information is provided on: what personal data they collect and why;
about media; about cookies; about embedded content
other websites; what rights you have over the data and where they send the data.

2.- Through the link, <<data protection>>, located at the bottom of the
redirects to a new page,
Homepage,
http://www.empleojerez.es/proteccion-de-datos/, where information is provided, among others, about:

the Web

 

Who is responsible for data processing and is informed of: for what purpose
process personal data; how long they keep the data; which is the
legitimacy for data processing; which recipients will be communicated to
data; what are the rights when the data is provided and how they can exercise them.

d.- About the Cookies Policy:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

1.- Upon entering the home page of the web, (first layer), it is verified that without
perform any action or accept cookies, own cookies are used not
required, like: _gid; _ga and _gat.

2.- The banner about cookies that appears on the main page provides the following
information:

“We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.
SEE COOKIE POLICY. If you continue to use this site, we will assume that you are

<<Accept>>

agree with it.
<<No>>

<<Data Protection>>

If you choose not to accept non-technical or necessary cookies, by clicking on the
option, <<No>>, it is checked how the web continues to use cookies that are not
required, such as:_ga and _gid”.

If you choose to access the "protection policy", through the link <<protection
of data>>, the web redirects to the same page indicated above,
http://www.empleojerez.es/proteccion-de-datos/, through which there is a link to
the "cookies policy", also existing at the bottom of the main page, at
through which the web redirects to a new page http://www.empleojerez.es/politica-
de-cookies/ where information is provided on: What is a cookie and for
what is used these technologies; what type of cookies they use; how to manage and
delete cookies through the links that redirect users to videos.

If you choose to accept non-technical or necessary cookies, by clicking on the option,
<<accept>>, it is checked how the website continues to use unnecessary cookies
“_ga” “_gat” and “_gid”.

FIFTH: Dated 10/26/21, in view of the facts and the verifications
carried out by this Agency, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the entity claimed for:

-

-

Violation of article 32.1 of the RGPD, regarding the lack of security
detected on the web page of its ownership, directing it a warning and
requiring it to take appropriate steps to adapt the page
website, http://www.empleojerez.es, including technical measures and
organizational structures that allow a level of security appropriate to the risk.

Violation of article 22.2 of the LSSI, regarding the non-existence of "Policy of
Cookies”, of the claimed web page, verifying the existence of cookies not
techniques, with an initial penalty of 1,000 euros, (one thousand euros) and requiring
to take the appropriate measures to adapt the website,
http://www.empleojerez.es, to the new regulations in force regarding
cookies, including in it, a mechanism that makes it impossible to use
of non-technical or necessary cookies without the prior consent of the
interested. Modify the cookie information banner on the page
main including in it, information on the purposes for which
cookies will be used and if they are their own or also from third parties and include
in the cookies policy information on the identification of the cookies that

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

uses the web and the time they are active in the terminal equipment, in addition to
modify the option to reject all cookies in the main banner,
ensuring that the use of said option will not use cookies that are not
technical or necessary.

SIXTH: The initiation of the file was notified on 11/07/21, as of today, there is no
that the respondent has made allegations to the agreement to initiate the procedure.

In this sense, article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP -provision reported by the
claimed in the agreement to open the procedure- establishes that, "if no
they make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement,
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, may be considered a resolution proposal.”

In the present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the current regulations
attributed to the defendant and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into
consideration that the respondent has not made allegations to the agreement to start the
file and in accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) LPACAP, the aforementioned
Initiation agreement is considered in this case resolution proposal.

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- According to the claim, on the web http://www.empleojerez.es you can collect
personal data of users, but does not comply with current regulations on
of Data Protection, in what refers to the "Privacy Policy", to the "Policy
of Cookies” and to the “Security of the web”.

2º.- According to what this Agency has been able to verify, the web page claimed,
http://www.empleojerez.es, has the following characteristics regarding the "Policy
Privacy” and the “Cookies Policy” and “Security”:

- About the security of the page

 
 , it has been found that, when accessing the
web page, the Chrome browser warns that the page is not secure, because
uses the "http://" security protocol for its communications, offering the
following information about it, recommended that you do not enter
personal or private information on the page.

- About the processing of personal data

 
 , it has been found that, through
of the link, <<register>>, the website displays a form where you can
enter personal data, such as name, email. I also know
can obtain personal data from users through the tab
<<contact us>>, where personal data such as the
name, email, phone number and the subject to be discussed.

- About the "Privacy Policy"

 
 , it has been found that, through the
links, <<conditions of use>> and <<data protection>>, the web redirects
two new pages, where it is reported, among others: who is responsible
of data processing on the web, what personal data they collect and why
what; about media; about the embedded content of others

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

websites and on the management of the rights that you have in terms of
data protection and where they send the data.

- About the Cookies Policy,

 
   It has been verified that, when entering the page
website, without performing any action or accepting cookies, are used
Non-necessary own cookies, such as: _gid; _ga and _gat. If you choose to access
to the "protection policy", through the link <<data protection>>,
where information is provided about, what a cookie is and what it is for
use these technologies; what type of cookies they use; how to manage and
delete cookies through the links that redirect users to
informative videos.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I.- Competition:
 

- On the processing of personal data, security protocols

used on the website and the “Privacy Policy”:

Is competent to resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, by virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16,
regarding the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the Treatment of
Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD) and as
established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD),

- About the Cookies Policy:

Is competent to resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art.
43.1, second paragraph, of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the
Information Society and Electronic Commerce (LSSI).

II.-
 About the "http" security protocol used in the transfer of data in the
 
 
 
website: http://www.empleojerez.es

The website may collect personal data, such as name, email
email or phone number, through various existing forms in the
 Contact us
page: <<register>> and <<
 >>.
 
 
 

When accessing the web page, the Chrome browser warns that the page is not
secure, since it uses the http:// protocol for its communications, offering the
following message:

“Not secure: We recommend that you do not enter personal or private information
in this page. If possible, please do not use this website. It is not safe: be careful.
The connection of this website has some serious privacy problem. it's possible
that another user can see the information you send or receive through this site.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

You may see a "Login not secure" or "Payment not secure" message.
Dangerous: Avoid this website. If a red warning screen appears
that occupies the entire page, it means that the Safe Browsing function has marked the
website as not secure. It is very likely that your private information is compromised by
use it”

The HTTP code is a communication protocol that allows the transfer of
information on the Internet, but totally insecure, being subject to attacks that
allow to easily obtain the information that is being transferred from one website to another
other.

In this sense, article 32 of the RGPD indicates, on the security of the treatment of
personal data, which:

“1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which, where appropriate, includes, among others: a) pseudonymization and data encryption
personal; b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability
and permanent resilience of treatment systems and services; c) capacity
to restore the availability and access to personal data quickly in
case of physical or technical incident; d) a process of verification, evaluation and
regular assessment of the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures to
guarantee the safety of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3.Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

The known facts constitute an infraction for violation of article
32.1 of the RGPD, as the website lacks technical and organizational measures
that guarantee an adequate level of security when processing personal data.
personal character.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

For its part, article 73.f) of the LOPDGDD, considers a serious infringement, for the purposes of
prescription, “The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the
treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the RGPD”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €10,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

In accordance with these criteria, it is considered appropriate to direct a "WARNING", for
the infringement of article 32.1 of the RGPD, as the web page in question lacks
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security
adequate in the processing of personal data.

III- About the "Cookies Policy" of the website: http://www.empleojerez.es:

a).- Regarding the installation of cookies in the terminal equipment prior to
consent:

Article 22.2 of the LSSI establishes that users must be provided with information
clear and complete information on the use of storage devices and
data recovery and, in particular, on the purposes of data processing.
This information must be provided in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR. So,
when the use of a cookie entails a treatment that enables the
identification of the user, those responsible for the treatment must ensure the
compliance with the requirements established by the regulations on the protection of
data.

However, it is necessary to point out that they are exempt from compliance with the
obligations established in article 22.2 of the LSSI those necessary cookies
for the intercommunication of the terminals and the network and those that provide a service
expressly requested by the user.

In this sense, the GT29, in its Opinion 4/201210, interpreted that among the cookies
excepted would be the user input Cookies” (those used to
filling in forms, or managing a shopping cart); cookies from
user authentication or identification (session); user security cookies
(those used to detect erroneous and repeated attempts to connect to a site
Web); media player session cookies; session cookies to balance
load; user interface customization cookies and some of
plugin (plug-in) to exchange social content. These cookies would remain
excluded from the scope of application of article 22.2 of the LSSI, and, therefore, it would not be
necessary to inform or obtain consent on its use.

On the contrary, it will be necessary to inform and obtain the prior consent of the user.
before the use of any other type of cookies, both first and
third party, session or persistent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

In the verification carried out on the claimed website, it was found that, when
enter the main page and without performing any action on it and without accepting
cookies, non-technical or necessary cookies were used.

b).- About the existing cookie information banner in the first layer
(Homepage):

The banner on cookies of the first layer must include information regarding the
identification of the editor responsible for the website, in the event that your data
identifiers do not appear in other sections of the page or that their identity cannot
obvious detachment from the site itself. It must also include a
Generic identification of the purposes of the cookies that will be used and if they are
own or also third parties, without it being necessary to identify them in this first
layer. In addition, it must include generic information on the type of data to be collected.
collect and use in case user profiles are created and must include
information and the way in which the user can accept, configure and reject the
use of cookies, with the warning, where appropriate, that if a
certain action, it will be understood that the user accepts the use of cookies.

Apart from the generic information about cookies, in this banner there must be a
clearly visible link to a second informative layer on the use of the
cookies. This same link can be used to lead the user to the control panel.
cookie configuration, provided that access to the configuration panel is direct,
that is, that the user does not have to navigate inside the second layer to
locate it.

In the case at hand, in the cookie information banner on the
first layer of the denounced web, with the message: “We use cookies to ensure
that we give you the best experience on our website. SEE COOKIE POLICY. Yes
If you continue to use this site, we will assume that you agree with it”.
identify the purposes for which cookies will be used and whether they are their own or
also from third parties.

c).- Regarding consent to the use of unnecessary cookies:

For the use of non-excepted cookies, it will be necessary to obtain the
express consent of the user. This consent can be obtained
clicking on, “accept” or inferring it from an unequivocal action performed by the
user that denotes that the consent has occurred unequivocally. By
Therefore, the mere inactivity of the user, scrolling or browsing the website, is not
be considered for these purposes, a clear affirmative action in any circumstance and not
will imply the provision of consent by itself. Similarly, access to
the second layer if the information is presented in layers, as well as the navigation
necessary for the user to manage their preferences in relation to cookies in
the control panel, it is also not considered an active behavior that can be
derive the acceptance of cookies.

The existence of "Cookie Walls" is not allowed either, that is, windows
pop-ups that block the content and access to the web, forcing the user to
accept the use of cookies to be able to access the page and continue browsing.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

If the option is to go to a second layer or cookie control panel, the link
it should take the user directly to that configuration panel. To facilitate
selection, the panel can be implemented, in addition to a management system
granular cookies, two more buttons, one to accept all cookies and one to
reject them all. If the user saves his choice without having selected any
cookie, it will be understood that you have rejected all cookies. In relation to this second
possibility, in no case are pre-marked boxes admissible in favor of accepting
cookies.

If for the configuration of cookies, the web refers to the browser configuration
installed in the terminal equipment, this option could be considered complementary
to obtain consent, but not as the only mechanism. Therefore, if the publisher
opts for this option, it must also offer, and in any case, a mechanism that
allows you to reject the use of cookies and/or do it in a granular way, on your own
Web page.

On the other hand, the withdrawal of the consent previously given by the user
It should be possible to do it at any time. To this end, the publisher must offer a
mechanism that makes it possible to withdraw consent easily at any
moment. This facility will be considered to exist, for example, when the user
have simple and permanent access to the management or configuration system of the
cookies.

If the editor's cookie management or configuration system does not allow to avoid the
use of third-party cookies once accepted by the user, it will be provided
information about the tools provided by the browser and third parties,
It must be noted that, if the user accepts third-party cookies and subsequently wishes to
delete them, you must do it from your own browser or the system enabled by the
third parties for it.

In the case at hand, in the banner of the first layer there is the option of
reject all cookies, by clicking on <<No>>, but if you opt for this option,
check that the website continues to use the same non-technical or necessary cookies.

In the second layer (Cookies Policy), the website refers to the configuration of the
browser installed on the terminal equipment for the management of cookies, there being no
a mechanism that allows to reject all cookies or to do it in a granular way.

d).- On the information provided in the second layer (Policy of

Cookies):

More detailed information about cookies should be provided in the Cookies Policy.
characteristics of cookies, including information about, definition and function
generic cookies (what are cookies); about the type of cookies used
and its purpose (what types of cookies are used on the website); the identification of
who uses the cookies, that is, if the information obtained by the cookies is treated
only by the publisher and/or also by third parties with identification of the latter; the
period of conservation of cookies in the terminal equipment; and if it is the case,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

information on data transfers to third countries and the preparation of
profiles involving automated decision making.

In the case at hand, the information about cookies that is provided in the
second layer of the web, it has been detected that the identification of
the cookies that are used, if they are their own or from third parties, nor the time that
will be active on the terminal equipment.

IV- About the infraction in the "Cookies Policy" of the website:

The deficiencies observed on the website regarding the cookie policy,
suppose by the claimed entity the commission of an infraction of article
22.2 of the LSSI, since it establishes that:

“Service providers may use storage devices and
recovery of data in terminal equipment of the recipients, provided that
they have given their consent after they have been provided
clear and complete information on its use, in particular, on the purposes of the
data processing, in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of 13
December, on the protection of personal data.

Where technically possible and effective, the recipient's consent to
Accepting the processing of the data may be facilitated through the use of the parameters
from the browser or other applications.

The foregoing will not prevent the possible storage or access of a technical nature to the sole
purpose of effecting the transmission of a communication over a communications network
electronic or, to the extent that is strictly necessary, for the provision of
a service of the information society expressly requested by the
addressee".

This Infraction is typified as "minor" in article 38.4 g), of the aforementioned Law, which
considers as such: “Use data storage and retrieval devices
when the information has not been provided or the consent of the
recipient of the service in the terms required by article 22.2.”, and may be
sanctioned with a fine of up to €30,000, in accordance with article 39 of the aforementioned
LSSI.

After the evidence obtained in the preliminary investigation phase, and without prejudice to
whatever results from the investigation, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to
impose in accordance with the following aggravating criteria, established by art. 40 of
the LSSI:

-

The existence of intentionality, an expression that must be interpreted as
equivalent to a degree of guilt according to the Judgment of the
National High Court of 11/12/07 relapse in Appeal no. 351/2006,
corresponding to the denounced entity the determination of a system of
Obtaining informed consent that is in accordance with the mandate of the LSSI.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

In accordance with these criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose a penalty of 1,000
euros (one thousand euros), for the infringement of article 22.2 of the LSSI, regarding the policy
of cookies made on the website in question.

In accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection,

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity, ASOCIACIÓN JEREZ CAPITAL, with CIF.:
G01621408, owner of the website: http://www.empleojerez.es, the following
sanctions, for:

-

-

The infringement of article 32.1 of the RGPD, regarding the lack of security in the
website in the processing of personal data, directed by a
warning.

The Infraction of article 22.2 of the LSSI, regarding the "Cookies Policy"
of the website, with a penalty of 1,000 euros (one thousand euros)

SECOND: ORDER him that, within a period of one month from the
notification of this resolution, take the necessary measures on the website of
its ownership to adapt it to current regulations on data protection:

- Regarding security measures in the processing of personal data,
taking the appropriate measures to adapt the website, including in the
same technical and organizational measures that allow a level of security
appropriate to the risk.

- Regarding the "Cookies Policy", taking the appropriate measures to
adapt the website to current regulations on cookies, including
in it, a mechanism that makes the use of cookies impossible
technical or necessary without the prior consent of the interested party. Modify the
information banner about cookies on the main page including in the
same, information about the purposes for which it is
will use cookies and if they are their own or also from third parties and include in
the cookie policy information on the identification of the cookies that
uses the web and the time they are active on the terminal equipment. Finally,
you must modify the option to reject all cookies in the main banner,
ensuring that the use of said option will not use cookies that are not
technical or necessary.

THIRD: NOTIFY this agreement to start sanctioning proceedings to the
SHERRY CAPITAL ASSOCIATION,

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must be made effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, within the voluntary payment period indicated in the
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

December, by depositing it in the restricted account Nº ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the
Bank CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in
executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, the interested parties may optionally file
appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
within one month from the day following the notification of this
resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before the Chamber of the
Contentious-administrative of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of
July 13, regulatory of the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the term of
two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if
the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

