FOR PRIVACY PROTECTION AND STATE TRANSPARENCY Tatari tn 39 / 10134 Tallinn / 627 4135 / info@aki.ee / www.aki.ee Registration code 70004235 PRESCRIPTION-WARNING in personal data protection case no. 2.1.-1/20/3650 Prescription issued by Data Protection Inspectorate lawyer Signe Light Time and place of the injunction 22.12.2020, Tallinn Addressee of the injunction Nordiconsult Elektro OÜ Küütri tn 3, Tartu 51007 gert@nordiconsult.com Responsible person of the addressee XXX RESOLUTION: § 56 subsection 1, subsection 2 clause 8, § of the Personal Data Protection Act (IKS) 58 paragraph 1 and Article 58 paragraph 1 point d and paragraph 2 points c, d and f of the General Regulation on Personal Data Protection (IPPR), as well as in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of the IPR, the Data Protection Inspectorate issues a mandatory order for Nordiconsult Elektro OÜ to comply with: Remove from the website http: //www.nordiconsult.com/ee/contact/ XXX personal data. We set 12.01.2021 as the deadline for fulfilling the injunction. Report compliance with the order to the e-mail address of the Data Protection Inspectorate at info@aki.ee by this deadline at the latest. REFERENCE FOR DISPUTES: You can contest this order within 30 days by submitting either: - an appeal in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act to the Data Protection Inspectorate or - an appeal in accordance with the Administrative Court Procedure Code to the Tallinn Administrative Court (in this case, the appeal in the same matter cannot be reviewed). Challenging a precept does not stop the obligation to fulfill it or the implementation of measures necessary for fulfillment. EXERCISE MONEY WARNING: If the injunction has not been complied with by the set deadline, the Data Protection Inspectorate will impose an extortion fee of 2,000 euros on the recipient of the injunction based on § 60 of the Personal Data Protection Act. A fine may be imposed repeatedly - until the injunction is fulfilled. If the recipient does not pay the penalty, it will be forwarded to the bailiff to start enforcement proceedings. In this case, the bailiff's fee and other enforcement costs are added to the enforcement money. Tatari tn 39 / 10134 Tallinn / 627 4135 / info@aki.ee / www.aki.ee Registration code 70004235 MISCONDUCT PUNISHMENT WARNING: Failure to comply with the prescription under Article 58, paragraph 1 of the General Regulation on the Protection of Personal Data may result in criminal proceedings under § 70 of the Personal Data Protection Act. For this act, a natural person may be fined up to EUR 20,000,000, and a legal person may be fined up to EUR 20,000,000 or up to 4 percent of its global annual turnover of the previous financial year, whichever is greater. The out-of-court procedure for a misdemeanor is the Data Protection Inspectorate. FACTUAL FACTS: On 12.10.2020 XXX complaint was registered in the Data Protection Inspectorate, according to which the company Nordiconsult Elektro OÜ has not removed his name and contact details from the contacts on its website, whereas the employment relationship between the person and the company ended already in July 2019. The inspection first contacted Nordiconsult Elektro OÜ by phone, and during the conversation they agreed to remove the given personal data from the website. This had not been done by 04.12.2020, therefore the Data Protection Inspectorate made an official proposal to the company in writing on the same day to delete the data due to Articles 5 and 6 of the General Regulation on the Protection of Personal Data, which state that there must be a legal basis for the processing of personal data, including disclosure. In this case, there is no legal basis for the disclosure of the applicant's personal data. The proposal was sent to the company's e-mail address, which can be found in the business register. The inspection set a deadline of 17.12.2020 for the implementation of the proposal. At the moment, however, personal data has not been removed from the website, and the company has not responded to the inspection. GROUNDS OF THE DATA PROTECTION INSPECTION: The Data Protection Inspectorate contacted Nordiconsult Elektro OÜ by phone, and during the call it was agreed to remove the XXX data from the company's website as soon as possible. However, this has not been done so far. The inspectorate proposed a better implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act, explaining that there must be a legal basis for the processing of personal data, which in this case does not exist. In the proposal, the inspection also warned the board member of Nordiconsult Elektro OÜ about the circumstances of not responding to the injunction and pointed out that we can oblige him to respond to the appeal by imposing an injunction and a fine. Taking into account the factual circumstances and the fact that the company processes the applicant's personal data without a legal basis and has not responded to the inspection's proposal of 04.12.2020, the inspection considers that issuing a mandatory injunction in this case is necessary to eliminate the disorder. /signed digitally/ Signe Kerge lawyer under the authority of the Director General