Decision

Diary no

2020-10-09

DI-2020-4958

Swedish Europainkasso AB
Box 1187
432 36 Varberg

Supervision according to the Debt Collection Act (1974:182) v
Swedish Europainkasso AB
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
Svenska Europainkasso AB has violated Section 4 of the Debt Collection Act by wrongly
process selection.
The Data Inspectorate assumes that Svenska Europainkasso AB takes measures
to ensure that objections received during the election are taken into account in the future
of process form.
The case is closed.

Account of the supervisory matter
Datainspektionen has received a complaint against Svenska Europainkasso AB.
According to the complainant, the debt collection company has applied for a payment order with
The enforcement authority despite the fact that the claim has been disputed.
The Data Inspectorate has initiated supervision of Svenska Europainkasso AB for
review the company's routines when choosing a process form and what happened in it
individual case.
Svenska Europainkasso AB has submitted its general procedures for elections
of process form as well as in an opinion to the Data Inspectorate stated, among other things
following.

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (5)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2020-4958

On 13 November 2019, Svenska Europainkasso AB took by email
against an objection to a debt collection claim as Swedish
Europainkasso AB sent out to the debtor on 11 November
2019. Svenska Europainkasso AB assessed that the objection was
a contestation.
In subsequent phone calls, a man identifies himself as being
agent for the debtor and Svenska Europainkasso AB requests
during the phone call, submit a power of attorney for the representative. At
preparation of summons against the debtor goes Swedish
Europainkasso AB through all documents and contacts
the client. Still no one has been received then
proxy. For that reason, it cannot be ruled out that it is
a person other than the debtor who brought the action. All of them
email conversation comes from email address that can be assumed not
belong to the debtor. In case of contact with the client, notice is given
also that there have never been any problems with the debtor,
on the other hand, it is a relative of the debtor who had another
perception.
Due to the uncertainty about whether it was the debtor
which presented its position assessed Swedish Europainkasso
AB that an application for a payment order with
The enforcement authority was the most suitable for the debtor
the form of the process because the Swedish Crown Enforcement Agency must serve
the debtor payment order which then, if uninformed,
can take a stand himself. If Svenska Europainkasso AB had chosen
to file the suit the appellant could have argued
that Svenska Europainkasso AB did not follow the good collection oath
to accept a claim that did not come from the debtor.
After the application for a payment order was made, Svenska
Europainkasso AB in the email mentioned power of attorney and in the same email
incorrectly notified that there is no "ground for the dispute" when
it would be that there is a lack of "power of attorney for the contestation".

2 (5)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2020-4958

Reason for the decision
Applicable regulations, etc.
Debt collection operations must be conducted in accordance with good debt collection practices (section 4 of the Debt Collection Act).
What constitutes a good debt collection oath can be seen from §§ 5–11 of the Debt Collection Act,
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's general advice "Application of the Debt Collection Act" and
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's practice in debt collection matters.
A summary process does not make sense when the debtor has made a substantive one
objection which means that the claim must be tested substantively. If
it clearly appears that the debtor's objection is factually based should a
any action instead is brought to court by means of a summons.
According to good debt collection law, an application for a payment order is therefore not accepted
submitted if the debtor has made it clear that the claim is contested and has indicated a
factual basis for its objection (Datainspektionen's general advice p. 36 f.).
An incorrect choice of process form can further lead to an application or a decision
in cases of payment orders, which in turn means that the debtor on
incorrect grounds are noted in the credit information register (Datainspektionens
general advice p. 37).
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
It is undisputed that what Svenska Europainkasso AB has received is a
such factually based objection that deprives the debt collection company of the opportunity
to use the summary process and means that the debt collection company
must instead bring an action in court by means of a summons. The question is
about the circumstances reported by Svenska Europainkasso AB
really gives a collection agency the right to apply anyway
payment order.
A good debt collection oath does not set any special requirements on the forms for one
contestation or on identification in connection with a contestation. One
debt collection companies should normally assume that it is the debtor who has presented
an objection when it is stated to come from the debtor.
As the Swedish Data Protection Authority has understood it, Svenska Europainkasso AB has
stated three circumstances in support of his assumption that the debtor himself did not
stands behind the objection made. The objection has been submitted via a

3 (5)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2020-4958

email address that appears to be linked to a person other than the debtor,
someone other than the debtor has later raised the objection by telephone
without presenting a power of attorney and the client claims never to have had
problems with the debtor but with a person close to the debtor.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers that none of these circumstances, or
the circumstances taken together, give reason to assume that the debtor himself
does not stand behind the objection made. The objection would thus have
taken into account when choosing the process form and thereby led to an application for
summons instead of an application for a payment order.
The Data Inspectorate states that Svenska Europainkasso AB through its
wrong assumption also made a wrong process choice. The action is contradictory
against good debt collection oath and thus also against § 4 of the Debt Collection Act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority assumes that the company takes measures to ensure that
from now on, objections received will be taken into account when choosing the form of process.

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision is being appealed and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. The Swedish Data Protection Authority sends the appeal
further to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for examination, if the inspection does not
itself changes the decision in the way you have requested. Even the Chancellor of Justice can
appeal the decision to safeguard public interests. Time for
however, appeals before the Chancellor of Justice are counted from the day the decision is made
was announced.
Provided that the appeal does not contain any sensitive to privacy
personal data or information that can be covered by confidentiality, you can e-mail
the appeal to datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se.

This decision has been made by the unit manager Catharina Fernquist after
presentation by lawyer Karin Ekström.

4 (5)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2020-4958

Catharina Fernquist, 2020-10-09 (This is an electronic signature)
Copy to:
The appellant
The Chancellor of Justice

5 (5)

