 

 

Miguel de Serpa Soares  
Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs and United Nations Legal Counsel   
United Nations N.Y. 10017  
United States  
 
Sent by email only 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brussels, 19 May 2021 
Ref: OUT2021-0086 

Dear Mr. de Serpa Soares,  

Thank you for your letter of 24 February 2021, by which you refer to the ongoing dialogue between 
the European  Data Protection Board (“the Board” or the  “EDPB”) and  the United Nations  on  data 
protection. 

The Board fully recognises the importance of the tasks and missions  of international organisations in 
general and of the United Nations in particular, and of the specificities of such organisations, notably 
in the light of their privileges and immunities. 

In  this  respect,  the  Board  welcomes  that  the  United  Nations  consider  the  final  version  of  the 
Guidelines1  on Article 46(2)(a) and 46(3)(b) of  Regulation (EU) 2016/679  (“the GDPR”)2 as providing 
useful clarifications. 

These  Guidelines  should  provide  a  general  basis  to  interested  parties,  including  international 
organisations,  for  the  development  of  binding  agreements  or  non-binding  administrative 
arrangements depending on the case at hand or as a guidance for the safeguards to be provided  for 
in different transfer tools which practical work on actual solutions  may help identify.  

Taking  the  above  into  account,  in  our  reply  letter  of  7  October  2020,  the  Board  expressed  its 
commitment  to  engage with  international  organisations  in  this  context and  indicated  the  regular 

                                                             
1 Guidelines 2/2020 on Articles 46 (2) (a) and 46 (3) (b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal data 
between  EEA  and  non-EEA  public  authorities  and  bodies ,  https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/guidelines/guidelines-22020-articles-46-2-and-46-3-b-regulation_en. 
2 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), L119 of 4.5.2016. 

 

 

workshops  with  international organisations organised  by  the European  Data Protection  Supervisor 
(“the EDPS”) as one possible  appropriate venue to continue those discussions.   

A workshop, held on 8 and 9 October 20203, included a session dedicated to international transfers of 
personal  data to  international organisations,  which  provided  an  opportunity  for  an  insightful  and 
productive first exchange of ideas and information. 

As a follow-up  to this session, I wish to inform you that the EDPS has created a dedicated Task Force, 
whose  first  meeting took  place on  14 April  2021 and  to  which  several  international organisations 
participated, together with some national supervisory authorities and the European Commission. The 
objective of this Task Force is precisely to further discuss-  informally and without in any way replacing 
the formal procedures set out in the GDPR -  how the rules on international transfers under the GDPR 
may  apply  when  personal  data  is  transferred  to  international  organisations.  Another  meeting to 
discuss  in  more  details  the  specific  question  of  transfers  from  public  entities  to  international 
organisations is already scheduled on 25 May 2021. We welcomed the participation of United Nations 
representatives to the first meeting of  the Task Force and count on their continued participation to 
benefit  from  their  valuable  input  to  this  Task  Force  on  behalf  of  the  United  Nations  System 
Organizations. Should  your  other colleagues be willing to participate to the work of such  taskforce, 
please inform directly the EDPS (POLICY-CONSULT@edps.europa.eu). 

I also look  forward to receiving information on the update and strengthening of the data protection 
framework by the United Nations System Organizations you refer to in your letter and assure you that 
it will be considered with the utmost attention. 

Lastly, I  would  like  to renew  the Board’s  commitment to  further engage with  the United  Nations 
System Organizations on developing concrete transfer tools and in general on the shared mission of 
protecting human rights, including the right to privacy. 

 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

                                                             
3  EDPS,  Online  Workshop:  Data  Protection  within  International  Organisations  2020,  8  October  2020, 
https://edps.europa.eu/data-protection/our-work/publications/events/online-workshop-data-protection-
within-international_en. 

 

