
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    12/17/2020
                                Comics, podcasts, videos: the data protection authority informs citizens in new formatsThe state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information (LfDI) of Rhineland-Palatinate informs citizens with a short comic, podcast episodes and videos. The state data protection commissioner, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, says : "Since ever larger mountains of data are being piled up in the age of digitization and new technological developments, the right to informational self-determination is also becoming increasingly important. As a data protection authority, we want to make citizens, regardless of age, aware of their rights and use new forms of mediation to do so For this reason, employees have designed a short comic for our advent calendar this year - probably the first comic by a German data protection authority. It is about data protection in the health sector and the right of every patient to information. The comic shows: Data protection and comics go together. My colleagues and I will continue to take unfamiliar paths in the future to make data protection better known. In 2021 we will continue to focus on media formats such as comics, podcast episodes and videos."
The short comic can be found at this link. It is shown scenically that patients have a legal right to a copy of their files (their "treatment documentation") as part of their treatment. The right is derived from the right to information under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation. The copy must be made available free of charge within one month of the application and, if required, in full.
Since the beginning of this year, the LfDI has also been providing information on current data protection issues in the "Data Radio" podcast format. So far, eight episodes have appeared, including ones on fake news, social media and spam. In addition, the LfDI regularly addresses citizens via videos, most recently here at the beginning of December for the corona pandemic and the Advent season.
+++
                                return
                            



