 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

711.423.1 

Press Release 

3 July 2020 

Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection publishes the results of a brief review of 

video conferencing services for controllers in Berlin 

After reviewing the video conferencing services of various providers, the Berlin Commissioner 
for  Data  Protection  and  the  Freedom  of  Information  has  now  published  the  results  on  her 
institution’s website. 

In light of the current developments during the ongoing corona pandemic, a growing number 
of companies, public authorities, associations and freelancers based in Berlin are contacting 
the supervisory authority with regard to the use of video conferencing solutions in compliance 
with  data  protection  laws.  In  response  to  this  rise  in  enquiries,  the  Berlin  Commissioner  for 
Data Protection has been conducting brief examinations of various services over the past few 
weeks  to  make  it  easier  for  controllers  in  Berlin  to  check  the  lawfulness  of  using  certain 
solutions. 
 

The  legal  examinations  involved  the  standard  data  processing  contracts  that  controllers 
conclude with video conferencing service providers. Whenever the data processing contracts 
were found to be legally compliant, a cursory examination of certain technical aspects of the 
services was also conducted. 
 
The  supervisory  authority  wishes  to  stress  that  its  examination  of  the  services  is  not 
comprehensive,  especially  not  from  a  technical  perspective,  and  that  it  has  generally  not 
evaluated  privacy  policies,  which  merely  concern  data  processing  performed  independently 
by the video conferencing service providers themselves.  The scope of such privacy policies 
does not extend to any data processing performed by controllers based in Berlin when they 
use the service. 
 
If there are legal flaws in the checked documents, the services may only be used if alternative 
agreements have been made with the provider. 
 
The  supervisory  authority  has  used  a  traffic  light  system  to  make  the  results  of  the  review 
clearer. Providers are marked in green if the brief examinations did not reveal any flaws. With 
regard to the legal examination, the providers marked in yellow were found to have flaws that 
prevent the legally compliant use of the service but can probably be remedied without making 
significant  adjustments  to  business  processes  and  technology.  As  regards  the  technical 
evaluation, the services offered by the providers marked in yellow may be used under certain 
general  conditions.  Providers  are  marked  in  red  if  flaws  were  identified  that  prevent  the 
legally  compliant  use  of  their  services  and  can  probably  only  be  remedied  by  making 
significant adjustments to business processes and/or technology. 

Press Officer: Dalia Kues 

Office: Cristina Vecchi 

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de 

 

Friedrichstr. 219 
D-10969 Berlin 

Tel.: +49 301 388 9900 
Fax: +49 302 155 050 

 

 
 
 

- 2 - 

The  list  will  be  constantly  updated  by  the  Berlin  Commissioner  for  Data  Protection  and  the 
Freedom  of  Information  as  further  services  are  assessed  as  part  of  the  supervisory  and 
advisory  activities  performed  by  the  data  protection  authority.  If  providers  of  video 
conferencing solutions offer their services to controllers in Berlin and are yet to be evaluated, 
they are warmly invited to submit their contractual documents and technical information to the 
Berlin  Commissioner  for  Data  Protection  and  the  Freedom  of  Information  for  a  brief 
examination. 
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk: 
“Checking  whether  a  service  can  be  used  in  compliance  with  data  protection  laws  is  time-
consuming  and  pushes  many  controllers  to  their  limits.  That’s  why  we  want  to  offer 
assistance  through  our  brief  review.  I’m  delighted  to  see  the  first  providers  approaching  us 
themselves  to  have  their  services  included  in  our  reviews.  Needless  to  say,  it  would  be 
extremely  gratifying  if  our  test  results  encouraged  providers  to  rectify  issues  with  their 
services. We have already experienced our first success in that respect”. 
 
 
The  results  of  the  brief  review  can  be  found  on  the  website  of  the  Berlin  Commissioner  for 
Data Protection and the Freedom of Information:  https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-
und- service/themen-a-bis-z/corona-Pandemie.html. 

