 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.423.1

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

July 3, 2020

 

 

 

Berlin data protection officer publishes the results of a brief review of

Video conferencing services for those responsible in Berlin

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information published the results of a
Short review of video conferencing services from various providers on their website
published.
 
Against the background of the corona pandemic, companies, authorities, associations and
freelancers based in Berlin increasingly with questions about data protection compliance
Use of video conferencing solutions to the supervisory authority. To those responsible in Berlin
to facilitate the examination of the legality of the use of different solutions
Berlin data protection officer therefore carried out a brief examination in the past few weeks
various services.
 
The order processing contracts that those responsible have with the
Close video conferencing service providers by default. So far the
Order processing contracts are legally compliant, there was also a cursory
Examination of some technical aspects of the Services.
 
The supervisory authority points out that they do not carry out a comprehensive examination of the services
has performed. In particular, there is no comprehensive technical examination and as a rule
the data protection declaration is also not checked. The latter only affect the
independent data processing by the video conference system provider. Not from
The data protection declarations include those data processing operations that
Responsible bodies based in Berlin carry out when they use the services
take.
 
If there are legal deficiencies in the checked documents, the services may
only be used if different agreements have been made with the provider.
 
To better illustrate the assessment, the supervisory authority uses one
traffic light system. The short check did not reveal any deficiencies for providers marked in green. The
yellow marking means in the legal assessment that defects were found that
exclude a legally compliant use of the service, but their elimination
probably possible without significant adjustments to business processes and technology.
In the technical exam, a yellow mark means that the providers are under
Observing certain framework conditions can be used. Lie with providers marked in red
Defects that exclude a legally compliant use of the service and their
Eliminate what are likely to be significant business process and/or technical adjustments
require.

 
Spokeswoman: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

 
The list is updated continuously by the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
supplemented if other offers are examined as part of their supervisory and advisory activities
became. Providers of video conferencing solutions who offer their services to those responsible in Berlin
Make available and have not been reviewed are invited to contractual documents and
technical information for a short check with the Berlin data protection officer
to submit.
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
“Checking whether a service can be used in compliance with data protection regulations is time-consuming and brings a lot of work
leaders to their limits. With our short test we want to offer help.
I welcome the fact that the first providers have already approached us of their own accord so that we
include their ministry in our trials. If our test results lead to
It would of course be special if previously inadequate services were to improve their offer
pleasing. We have already been able to record the first successes in this regard.”
 
 
The results of the short test can be found on the website of the Berlin Commissioner for
Data protection and freedom of information at https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-
service/themen-a-bis-z/corona-pandemic.html.

