 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Recommendations for reviewing data processing contracts
from providers of video conferencing services
 
In our supervisory work we had to realize that
certain deficiencies in data processing agreements of providers of
Video conferencing services are popping up more frequently. Therefore we recommend the
responsible persons subject to our supervision, when examining the
Contracts to pay particular attention to the following aspects:
 
If the service contract is concluded online, it must be ensured that
that the order processing contract is actually in the contract
is included. The order processing contract must
Cover the requirements of Art. 28 GDPR.
 
In particular, the providers must act fully in accordance with instructions,
So the personal data must not be used for your own purposes or
Process third-party purposes (Art. 28 Para. 3 lit. a DS-GVO) and must them
immediately after completion of the service provision at the option of the
publish or delete the responsible body (Art. 28 Para. 3 lit. g DS-
GMO). The providers must also undertake to provide all information
to prove compliance with those laid down in Art. 28 DS-GVO
to provide obligations and reviews – including pro-
On-site inspections - to enable and contribute to (Art. 28 para. 3
lit. h GDPR). The obligation to provide must have all the required
Information includes and must not be specific to the
full proof insufficient documents limited
will. Likewise, the right of control must not be based on the request of
or access to documents may be restricted. In very special
In exceptional cases, an unannounced on-site inspection must also be possible
be. In any case, for reviews due to violations by the provider
against their obligations become necessary, there must be an obligation to bear the costs
be excluded from those responsible, otherwise this
right of review would in fact be devalued.
 
Providers must contractually undertake, all according to Art. 32 DS-GVO
implement the necessary technical and organizational measures.
Does the contract refer to an exhaustive list of certain
measures to be implemented, this is generally not sufficient.
 
Subcontractors may only do so with the consent of the responsible body
be switched on (Art. 28 Para. 2 DS-GVO); in the case of a general
Permission for subcontractors, the provider must be responsible
Inform the agency proactively and in good time about planned subcontractors.
Those responsible must have a real right to object
Have subcontractors, so not only the right of use for the
Service may be omitted while the obligation to pay remains. All
Control rights must also be fully opposed
Subcontractors apply (Art. 28 Para. 4 S. 1 DS-GVO).
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance:
Puttkamer Str. 16-18
 
Telephone: (030) 13889-0
Fax: (030) 215 50 50
mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
office hours
 
daily 10 a.m. - 3 p.m., Thurs. 10 a.m. - 6 p.m
(or by appointment)
 
reachability
 
U6: Kochstr.
Bus: M29, 248
 
Internet
 
https://datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 



- 2 -

Especially for providers with headquarters or place of processing outside of
EU and EEA, the contractual formulations must be carefully observed.
If the contract - such as Article 28 (3) lit. a and h GDPR - exceptions
of the binding instructions, these must be exactly according to the
comply with the limits permitted by law. These exceptions are allowed
exclusively on the law of the EU and as far as relevant
Member States refer, therefore not inadmissible Art. 48 DS-GVO
is bypassed.
 
According to Art. 5 Para. 2 DS-GVO, those responsible must provide evidence at any time
ensure that they comply with legal requirements. This requires
mandatory that on the one hand the order processing contract is clearly formulated
is and no doubts are possible that all legal
requirements are met. Any ambiguities and
Contradictory regulations are to be avoided, even if it is at someone else's
Place clauses there that are inconsistent with any of the regulations
grant priority of validity (priority clauses). On the other hand, you also have to
the permissible subcontractors must be clearly defined at all times so that the
pure reference in the contract to a list on a website or just one
general designation such as "affiliated companies" or an indication
without a full name including legal form and address is not sufficient.
 
If the data processing takes place in third countries, i.e. outside of the
Scope of the DS-GVO, the transmission must be carried out by suitable means
Guarantees must be secured, for example by agreeing to the EU
Commission approved Standard Contractual Clauses. there is
in particular, it should be noted that the rights and obligations arising from
Standard contractual clauses may not be restricted, not even in
other contract documents, otherwise the data export will be inadmissible.
Restrictions are also inadmissible if they are contractual
priority rules exist. Because a priority rule already included
the Standard Contractual Clauses themselves, so any restriction anyway
is invalid under civil law; nevertheless, only unmodified can
Standard contractual clauses for data export are used.
Only additions that are exclusively for the benefit of the
data subjects and the level of data protection. intended for
Data exports to the USA must be based on the Privacy Shield
those responsible check whether the self-certification is actually
exists and whether it includes all processed data and purposes,
in particular personal data (HR data).
 
Standard Contractual Clauses and Privacy Shield are currently the subject
a proceeding before the Court of Justice of the European Union and
could subsequently be rejected as ineffective from the outset. This
speaks in favor of extending the data processing to the area of the EU and EEA and
other by the EU Commission as comparable in terms of data protection
to restrict states.
 
When naming the persons concerned, it should be noted that
is also discussed about third parties, so that their personal
data are processed.

Version 1.0 of July 3, 2020

