 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Berlin data protection officer to carry out video
conferences during the contact restrictions
 

The precautionary measures to contain the corona pandemic
to restrictions in almost all areas of daily life. Around
avoiding physical proximity between people as much as possible
in many cases that professional contacts are no longer personal,
but held over the network. If more than two or three people
If you want to have a conversation together, telephone
and held video conferences. Many companies and authorities
chen well-functioning offers for their implementation and provide
Next, the examination goes back to whether they also claim data protection
can be taken.

With this text, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
Freedom of information to the companies and authorities subject to their supervision
and other institutions information on the requirements for use
of video conferencing systems and describe the risks that
standing if they are not complied with. To avoid these risks
or at least to reduce it and the data protection regulations
are to be observed, those responsible are called upon to
but not data protection-compliant solutions as soon as possible through data
to replace or to improve accordingly.

Personal data in video conferences

Personal data play a role when conducting video conferencing
role in two ways: first, the spoken word
itself contain information about individuals. Second fall at
the implementation of a video conference, data about the participants
and participants, i. H. their contact details, their names and details
informed of the time and place of their participation in the conference. Below are on
in any case, data on employees of the institution hosting the videoconference
organized, and possibly data about their interlocutors, be it
Business partners, employees of other institutions or private
fathers.

Basic requirements and recommendations

 Video telephony and video conferencing should be over encrypted channels
be settled. This applies both to switching the connection
genes as well as the transmission of audio and video data.

 If you do not use the video conferencing solution yourself and with
reasonable effort (which would be preferable), then
you can use a reliable video conferencing service
gen. The prerequisite is that you have an order processing contract

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance:
Puttkamer Str. 16-18
 
Telephone: (030) 13889-0
Fax: (030) 215 50 50
mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
office hours
 
daily 10 a.m. - 3 p.m., Thurs. 10 a.m. - 6 p.m
(or by appointment)
 
reachability
 
U6: Kochstr.
Bus: M29, 248
 
Internet
 
https://datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

- 2 -

close with him and the operator does not provide any information about the
authorized and their communication or the use of the software for
processed for general purposes or passed on to third parties.

The service provider should process the data in the European Union, a
country of the European Economic Area or in a country deemed to be the same
in the applicable country and also have their registered office there. the
Equivalence is determined by the European Commission (see
https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/international-di-
mension-data-protection/adequacy-decisions_de). Alternatively, he can
data export are based on the conclusion of a contract whose
Text of the standard contractual clauses approved by the EU Commission
selen (see below). The requirement also applies to all subcontractors
mer, which the service provider makes use of.

 Unless it is excluded by encryption that the over-

communicated audio and video data by the provider.
can be taken, it is recommended that only providers in the European
European Union or the European Economic Area,
if sensitive data is discussed within the video conference
must. Persons subject to professional secrecy may only use service providers who
may be prosecuted in the event of a breach of confidentiality.
Medical service providers may only be certified service providers
use, see https://www.kbv.de/html/videosprechstunden.php.

risks

A major risk is that during the video conference,
listened to or the contents recorded and further evaluated
the, possibly to the detriment of the people attending the conference
taken or talked about. The risk is on
greatest when sensitive topics are addressed in the exchange
such as B. the state of health or the political views of a
Person.

Third parties may attempt to establish a conversation between the parties
to listen to the user and the operator of the offer or to
cut. But also the operator of the video conference system himself
may have an interest or be officially obliged to
to make a cut, be it just to adjust the quality of the transmission
judge, be it because the recording was made on behalf of third parties for their purposes
follows.

Video conferencing systems are usually designed in such a way that when
driver service the unencrypted images and sounds converge.
This enables him to control the flow of data and send the data to the abilities
adapt the capabilities of the devices of the participants. It can also be that
the performance of recordings forms part of the offer.
It is therefore generally unavoidable that at least the operator
service authorized or unauthorized recordings can be made
whether with his knowledge or against his will. Only services where
n the data is encrypted on one end device and only on
can be decrypted again by the remote station – so-called end
end-to-end encryption – ensure that no such
cuts can be made by the operator.

You should know: Telecommunications secrecy protects you when you use it
of video conferencing systems against the provider. It stretches
refers to the operator of your Internet connection, but not to yours

(Version 1.2 of July 3, 2020)



- 3 -

video conferencing service. This is a loophole in the law that the European
recognized by the legislature. He has committed member states to
at the end of this year the protection on "interpersonal communication
services”, including to public web and video conferencing systems.
dilate These will then meet the strict requirements of the telecommunications
communication law, including telecommunications secrecy
ses. However, the old, incomplete rules still apply.

You therefore have no choice: you must contact the provider of your video conferencing
trust service. However, you can at least contractually bind him
the. You are also obliged to do this. Because you don't just contribute to the
not only to protect your own rights, but also to protect your employees
and communication partners. What is to be regulated by contract
stipulates the legislature. Reputable providers therefore have a
subcontract.

However, enforcement will go far for you and the named persons
more difficult if your contractual partner is based outside Europe
European Union and European Economic Area, so you can find yourself in the
would have to turn to a court in a foreign jurisdiction in the event of a conflict
order that may not protect your rights as well
like the European one. In order to counteract this circumstance, the Euro
European Commission developed standard contractual clauses (https://eur-
lex.europa.eu/legal-content/DE/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32010D0087). Only
However, their full application unfolds the intended comprehensive
the protection of your interests and the interests of the persons concerned.
The obligations from the standard contractual clauses must therefore not be
be restricted.

This protection also extends to risks arising from the evaluation of the
Circumstances of communication or other data for their own purposes
provider or for third-party purposes. These risks also exist
in the formation of personality and usage profiles of the conversation
Participants who are advertising, political or through competitors and
misused to recruit staff. To create such a profile
exclude education, you must provide the provider with such an evaluation
prohibit However, many providers keep the evaluation in their
ren General Terms and Conditions. In such a case would be
individual usage agreements required. seems more promising
a change of provider.

recommendations

First of all, you should check whether tele-
phone conferences could be sufficient to achieve the desired vote and
bring about each other. These can be much easier to
be carried out properly.

If video conferencing is necessary, it is best to use your own service
in the source text of publicly available software (open source software)
to deliver. The use of commercial software is also a matter of course
possible as long as it is ensured that this software does not itself store data
via your employees or their communication partners to the
manufacturer or to third parties for their own purposes. You can
also fall back on the support of a service provider for the operation
fen. Unfortunately, especially for small institutions, it is hardly
affordable with moderate effort, a well-functioning data protection-compliant
operate the solution or have it operated.

(Version 1.2 of July 3, 2020)



- 4 -

At the next level, we recommend you to check if one of the solutions
gene European providers meets your needs. Fulfills a
solution to your business needs, then check the provider
can be expected to process the data only within the permissible framework
and in particular not to third parties contrary to European data protection law
- including foreign authorities - that he is sufficient
Data security (e.g. through certification) can prove to you
the encryption of the data transmission is guaranteed and ready with
to conclude a legally compliant order processing contract for you
eat.

The provider must also explain to you whether he uses service providers
Outside the European Union or the European Economic Area
to provide the service. Some providers only act
as a reseller of services from US companies. On-
leave a significant part of the service to non-European
cal companies of the same group of companies. In the
In the last two cases you win a European
portable contact person. However, this does not guarantee
that the provider adheres to EU law in the event of a conflict and not to his
cold right.

In the latter case, as well as when directly commissioning one of the
non-European providers with a significant market share - as a rule
based in the USA - in addition to the questions that also apply to purely European
European providers play a role, which entails additional risks
and check the legal guarantees.

Unfortunately, some of the providers who offer technically mature solutions
provide genes that the data protection requirements have not yet.
This currently applies (as of July 3, 2020) e.g. B. on the services Blizz, Cisco Web
bEx, Cisco WebEx via Telekom, Google Meet, GoToMeeting, Microsoft
Teams, Skype, Skype for Business Online and Zoom too. With NETWAYS
Web Services Jitsi, Sicherheit-videokonferenz.de, TixeoCloud, Werk21 Big-
However, BlueButton and Wire are available as alternatives that
meet protection requirements.

For a detailed assessment, we refer to our "Notes for
liner responsible for providers of video conferencing services", the regular
moderately updated and the data available at https://www.datenschutz-ber-
lin.de/infothek-und-service/themen-a-bis-z/corona-pandemic.html
are. If the provider you are considering is not in this
be included in the list, to facilitate your check, you will find
website also referred to our “Recommendations for Auditing
contract processing contracts from providers of video conferencing services",
the certain frequently observed deficiencies in order processing
contracts.

Organizational regulations

Finally, forget about organizational regulations for the vi-
deoconferencing in your institution does not. These should present the procedure
to be observed when recording a video conference
should, and possibly also contain provisions on which topics in a
video conference should not be spoken. In the regulations should
the contact details of persons who are subject to data protection law
in case of doubt or in the event of information technology problems,
give lung. It should also explain how to proceed if a
violation of the protection of personal data is suspected.

(Version 1.2 of July 3, 2020)



- 5 -

Above all, those professional groups who work with particularly sensitive data
work, for example in a medical or psychological context
Consultations should focus in particular on compliance with data protection
respect legal principles. The use of platforms for vi-
Deodorant-assisted online counseling often involves a variety of risks that
must be carefully weighed against the benefits.

Conclusion

Even in this time of an extremely accelerated and sometimes over-
overthrown digitization of the world of work, the protection of personal
ner data are always considered. Where the urgency of the current
measures to be taken does not allow this to the necessary extent,
must be continually improved. If data protection law
Imponderables or even grievances occur, these must be reported immediately
remedy.

(Version 1.2 of July 3, 2020)

