1/7

 File No.: EXP202102401

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R. (*hereinafter, the part
claimant) on September 6, 2021 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The claim is directed against A.A.A. with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party). The grounds on which the claim is based
are the following:

"has installed on the landing where his home is located, next to the door of
his home, a video surveillance camera that would capture common areas of the
Community” (folio nº 1).

They provide camera images, through documentary evidence to that effect

(Annex I).
SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in
date 09/28/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: On December 6, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On February 9, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: When the database of this Agency was consulted, there is no allegation of
the one claimed, stating the Commencement Agreement notified in BOE dated 03/14/22.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 09/06/21 through the
which translates as the main fact the following:

"has installed on the landing where his home is located, next to the door of
his home, a video surveillance camera that would capture common areas of the
Community” (folio nº 1).
Second. She is accredited as the main person in charge of the facility Doña
A.A.A.

Third. It is accredited that a video-surveillance device has been installed without
have the proper authorization from the Board of Owners, affecting the data of
third parties who are intimidated by it.

Fourth. The party claimed has not justified the presence of the camera or the cause (s)
installation of the same, ignoring the recommendations of the Board
of owners.

Fifth. There is no evidence that the system has been legally informed, either through
communication to the governing bodies of the Community or through the presence of
informative sign in visible area.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

II

Before going into the substance of the matter, remember that in the Agreement to Start the
present procedure it was mentioned that, in the case of not making any allegation
At the same time, this could be considered a “resolution proposal”.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In the
present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

III

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 09/06/21 by
means of which the following is transferred as the main fact:

"has installed on the landing where his home is located, next to the door of
his home, a video surveillance camera that would capture common areas of the
Community” (folio nº 1).

The facts denounced could imply an affectation to the content of art. 6 of the
current GDPR.

To install cameras in common areas, authorization from the
Board of neighbors of the property, having to request it in the corresponding order
of the day, and must in any case be approved in the terms of the LPH (Property Law
Horizontal).

Individuals are responsible for the installed video-surveillance systems to be
comply with current legislation, and must be able to prove such
extremes before the competent Authority.

Cameras installed by individuals must be oriented towards your space
private area avoiding the capture of private area of third parties without just cause.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

Security cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain
images of public spaces, the security function of public spaces
corresponds exclusively to the State Security Forces and Bodies.

Likewise, in the case of false cameras, they must be oriented
to a private area avoiding intimidation of the neighboring neighbors who
They do not know if they process personal data or not.

Fake cameras can also affect privacy
claimed, in such a way that it is a criterion maintained by this Agency
that they limit their radius of action (orientation) towards a private area,
respecting the tranquility of the private life of the affected party, which does not have to
know the nature of the system, but also cannot bear to be intimidated by it.
himself in his personal and/or domestic sphere.

Remember that there are less invasive measures to protect the
private property, such as alarm systems or interior cameras,
avoiding the use of this type of cameras in outdoor areas that affect the
neighborhood coexistence.

IV

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding
sanctioning party, it is considered that the party claimed has proceeded to install a camera
in the community wall affecting the common area, without having the necessary support
for it.

For the installation of surveillance services in a community of owners,
needs the votes in favor of 3/5 of the total owners, who must also
represent at least 3/5 of the participation quotas.

Regardless of the civil issue, the presence of cameras in a
community of owners is an "exceptional" measure that must weigh the
affectation of the rights of third parties, which are affected by the presence of the
itself, by "processing your personal data" without proper information and affecting your
personal privacy.

There are less harmful measures for the rights of third parties that are
compatible with home protection (eg sound alarm or interior camera, etc.)
that avoid the presence of devices in the landing area of the dwellings, which

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

affect the rights of third parties that are recorded in their inputs/outputs, without
any justified cause thereby affecting your personal data.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the party

claimed, for violation of the content of article 6 RGPD.

v

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

- the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered; (art. 83.2 a) RGPD), having installed a camera on a common wall,
without authorization from the Board of Owners, thereby affecting a number
indeterminate number of neighbors of the property.

- the intent or negligence in the infringement; (art. 83.2 b) RGPD), when controlling in
excess zone of communal nature, being able to be considered the conduct described
gross negligence for the reasons stated, being aware of the illegality of
action, ignoring the warnings of the governing bodies of the Community of
owners.

In accordance with the above, it is considered correct to impose an encrypted sanction
in the amount of €600 (six hundred euros), by having a camera system whose
recording does not find legal support, affecting the free transit zone of third parties
without just cause and intentionally, sanction located on the lower scale
for this type of behavior.

SAW

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2
d) it is established that each control authority may “order the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

and within a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with
the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the
GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of Article 6 of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €600 (six hundred euros).

SECOND: ORDER the claimed, so that in accordance with article 58
RGPD, proceed within ONE MONTH to withdraw the device in question
providing documentary evidence with date and time that proves such end.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. and REPORT the result
of the proceedings to the complaining party.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-100322

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

