Postal Address:  
Box 8114  
104 20 Stockholm  
Website:  
www.imy.se  
Email:  
imy@imy.se  
Phone:  
08-657 61 00  
1(30)  

Spotify AB  
Regeringsgatan 19  
11153 Stockholm  
Decision following supervision under the  
Data Protection Regulation – Spotify AB  

Table of Contents  
Decision of the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection ...........................................3  
Spotify's General Procedures for Handling Access Requests ..................................3  
Review of Individual Complaints ...............................................................................3  
1 Description of the Supervision Case ......................................................................5  
2 Applicable Provisions ..............................................................................................6  
3 Spotify's General Procedures for Handling Access Requests - Justification of Decision  
........................................................................................................................................7  
3.1 Information - Article 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the Data Protection Regulation ..........7  
3.1.1 What has emerged in the case .........................................................................7  
3.1.2 Assessment of the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection ..........................8  
3.2 Right of Access to Personal Data and Copy of Personal Data Under Processing – Article 15.1 and 15.3 of the Data Protection Regulation ............................12  
3.2.1 What has emerged in the case .......................................................................12  
3.2.2 Assessment of the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection ........................15  
4 Review of Individual Complaints - Justification of Decision ..................................20  
4.1 Complaint 1 (from the Netherlands with national reference number z2018-28415)  
.........................................................................................................................20  
4.1.1 Background ....................................................................................................20  
4.1.2 What has emerged in the case .......................................................................20  
4.1.3 Assessment of the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection ........................22  
4.2 Complaint 2 (from Austria with national reference number D130.198) ..........23  
4.2.1 Background ....................................................................................................23  
4.2.2 What has emerged in the case .......................................................................23  
4.2.3 Assessment of the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection ........................24  
4.3 Complaint 3 (from Denmark with national reference number 2018-31-1198) ...26  
5 Choice of Intervention ............................................................................................26  
Case Number:  
DI-2019-6696  
Date:  
2023-06-12  

Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Case Number: DI-2019-6696  
2(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

5.1 Applicable Provisions .........................................................................................26  
5.2 Same or Linked Data Processing Activities .........................................................27  
5.3 Deficiencies in Information According to Article 15.1 and 15.2 of the Data Protection Regulation and in the Description of Data in the Technical Log Files ........27  
5.4 Violations Regarding Complaints 1 and 2 .........................................................29
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Case Number: DI-2019-6696  
3(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

Decision of the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Spotify's General Procedures for Handling Requests for Access  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection finds that Spotify AB (556703-7485) during the period from November 16, 2021, to May 16, 2022, in the information to be provided under Articles 15.1 and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation1 did not provide sufficiently clear information about  
– the purposes of the processing,  
– categories of personal data concerned,  
– categories of recipients of the personal data,  
– the envisaged periods for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period,  
– the source of the personal data,  
– appropriate safeguards when personal data is transferred to third countries.  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection further finds that Spotify AB during the period from June 11, 2019, to May 16, 2022, by providing the description of the data in the technical log files in English by default, has not fulfilled the requirements that all communication provided to the data subject under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation must be clear and understandable in the manner specified in Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
Spotify AB has thus processed personal data in violation of Articles 12.1, 15.1 a-d, 15.1 g, and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection decides, based on Articles 58.2 and 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation, that Spotify AB shall pay an administrative fine of 58,000,000 (fifty-eight million) kronor for these deficiencies.  
Review of Individual Complaints  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection finds regarding complaint 1 that Spotify AB in its handling of the complainant's request for access made on May 27, 2018, has processed personal data in violation of  
– Article 12.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation, by providing the copy of personal data late,  
– Articles 12.1, 15.1, and 15.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation, by not providing all of the complainant's personal data in an understandable form in the copy of personal data that Spotify AB provided.  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection finds regarding complaint 2 that Spotify AB in its handling of the complainant's request for access made on October 10, 2018, has processed personal data in violation of  
– Articles 15.1 and 15.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation, by not providing access to all personal data that Spotify AB processed about the complainant,  

1 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).  

Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Case Number: DI-2019-6696  
4(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

– Articles 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, by not providing any of the information specified in these provisions.  

The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection issues a reprimand to Spotify AB under Article 58.2 b of the General Data Protection Regulation for the deficiencies regarding complaints 1 and 2.  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection orders Spotify AB under Article 58.2 c of the General Data Protection Regulation to, regarding complaint 2, no later than one month after this decision has become final, comply with the complainant's2 request for access by, subject to any applicable exceptions in Article 15.4 of the General Data Protection Regulation and Chapter 5 of the Data Protection Act3, providing the complainant access to all personal data that Spotify processes about the complainant by supplying the complainant with a copy of the personal data according to Article 15.3 and providing information according to Articles 15.1 a-h and 15.2.  

2 The complainant's identification details are included in Appendix 1  
3 The Act (2018:218) with supplementary provisions to the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
5(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

1 Report on the supervisory case  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) has, in light of having received complaints directed against Spotify AB (Spotify) regarding the right of access under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation, initiated supervision of Spotify to investigate whether the company's handling of requests for access from data subjects is in accordance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. IMY has initially reviewed the company's general procedures for requests for access and not what has occurred in the individual complaints. The review has focused on whether the company's processes and procedures for providing access under Article 15, on a general level, enable data subjects to obtain access to the personal data the company processes about them as well as other information according to the provision. In this context, data subjects refer to the customers who use Spotify's services and not other categories of data subjects, such as employees of Spotify.  
IMY has not, within the framework of this review, checked which personal data Spotify processes and whether all of this data is provided in response to each individual request. For example, no comparison has been made between Spotify's register of processing activities under Article 30 of the General Data Protection Regulation and the personal data included in the copy of personal data according to Article 15.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation. IMY has also not reviewed, within the framework of this supervision, whether Spotify's processing of personal data otherwise complies with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, e.g., regarding fundamental principles and legal basis for processing.  
The supervisory case was initiated with a supervisory letter on June 11, 2019. A response to the supervisory letter was received on July 31, 2019. On October 16, 2019, a request for additional information in the case was sent. A response was received on November 15, 2019. Spotify subsequently, on its own initiative, submitted further supplementary information on August 25, 2020, in order to inform IMY about updates regarding procedures for handling requests for access.  
Spotify is an organization with operations and users in several EU member states. Given that the case is cross-border, IMY has applied the mechanisms for cooperation and consistency found in Chapter VII of the General Data Protection Regulation. All data protection authorities in the EU have been concerned supervisory authorities in this case. Due to the mechanisms for cooperation and consistency, and the need for harmonized complaint handling within the EU, IMY expanded the ongoing general supervision in November 2020 to also include what has occurred in three individual complaints, which also encompass the complaints that initially formed the basis for the supervision of the general procedures.  
On November 5, 2020, IMY requested that Spotify explain its position regarding the deficiencies alleged in the complaints and what measures Spotify has taken to respond to each request for access. Spotify responded to IMY's request on December 18, 2020. Spotify subsequently submitted supplementary statements on April 15, 2021, in response to additional questions posed by IMY on March 24, 2021, and on August 31, 2021, in response to questions posed by IMY on July 9, 2021.  

4 In 2020, data protection authorities worked together to establish common practices for handling complaints, resulting in internal guidance established in February 2021. From previously using complaints to identify recurring patterns and risks, but as a general rule concluding complaints with a standard response, IMY now makes an individual assessment of each complaint. Internal EDPB Document 02/2021 on SAs duties in relation to alleged GDPR infringements, adopted February 2, 2021.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
6(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

On October 19, 2021, an additional request for supplementary information regarding Spotify's general procedures was sent. A response was received on November 12, 2021. On June 8 and October 17, 2022, Spotify voluntarily provided further supplements in order to inform IMY about updates regarding procedures for handling access requests.  
Spotify commented on IMY's draft decision on December 20, 2022. IMY then provided other relevant supervisory authorities the opportunity to comment in accordance with Article 60 of the General Data Protection Regulation. The French data protection authority expressed a relevant and reasoned objection to IMY's draft decision. On March 13, 2023, Spotify was given the opportunity to comment on the objection as well as IMY's revised draft decision. Spotify's response was received on April 11, 2023.  
The supervisory matter encompasses, in light of the above, both a review of Spotify's general procedures for handling access requests and a review of what has occurred in the three complaints. The general procedures regarding the provision of personal data according to Articles 15.1 and 15.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation that have been reviewed are those that were in effect from the initiation of IMY's supervision on June 11, 2019, until May 16, 2022. Regarding the information according to Articles 15.1 and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation that must be provided upon a request for access, Spotify has updated this several times since the supervision began. IMY has therefore limited its review to the information that was applicable during the period from November 16, 2021, to May 16, 2022.5  

2 Applicable Provisions  
According to Article 15.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject has the right to obtain from the data controller confirmation as to whether personal data concerning him or her is being processed and, if so, to access the personal data and information about  
a) The purposes of the processing.  
b) The categories of personal data concerned.  
c) The recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries and international organizations.  
d) If possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period.  
e) The existence of the right to request from the data controller rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data subject, or to object to such processing.  
f) The right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority.  
g) If the personal data are not collected from the data subject, all available information as to their source.  
h) The existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, as referred to in Articles 22.1 and 22.4, in which case meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject, should at least be provided.  

5 See Spotify's information according to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation in Appendix 2. The information, which was printed by IMY on May 16, 2022, indicates that the relevant webpage was last updated on November 16, 2021. The review period is therefore set to the period from November 16, 2021, to May 16, 2022.
Integrity Protection Authority  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
7(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

information about the logic behind and the significance and anticipated consequences of such processing for the data subject.  
Article 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation states that if personal data is transferred to a third country or to an international organization, the data subject shall have the right to information about the appropriate safeguards that have been implemented in accordance with Article 46 during the transfer.  
Article 15.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation follows that the data controller shall provide the data subject with a copy of the personal data being processed. Furthermore, it is stated that if the request is made in electronic form, the information, unless otherwise requested, shall be provided in a commonly used electronic format.  
Recital 63 of the General Data Protection Regulation states, insofar as relevant, the following:  
The data subject should have the right to access personal data collected about them and to easily and reasonably exercise this right at intervals, in order to be aware of the processing and to verify that it is lawful. (…) All data subjects should therefore have the right to be informed and notified primarily about the purposes for which personal data is processed, if possible the duration of the processing, who receives the personal data, the underlying logic in connection with automated processing of personal data, and, at least when the processing is based on profiling, the consequences of such processing. (…)  
Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation further states that the data controller shall take appropriate measures to ensure that all communication provided to the data subject under Article 15 is in a concise, clear, and transparent, understandable, and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language.  
Article 12.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation states that the data controller shall facilitate the exercise of the data subject's right of access under Article 15.  
According to Article 12.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller shall, upon request, provide the data subject with information about the measures taken under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation without undue delay and in any event no later than one month after receiving the request. This period may be extended by a further two months if necessary, taking into account the complexity of the request and the number of requests received. The data controller shall inform the data subject of such an extension within one month of receiving the request and shall provide the reasons for the delay.  
3 Spotify's General Procedures for Handling Access Requests - Justification of Decision  
3.1 Information - Article 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation  
3.1.1 What has been revealed in the matter  
Spotify has summarized the following. Spotify provides information in accordance with Article 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation via an online function. This function is available in 21 different languages, and those who visit the page will
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Case Number: DI-2019-6696  
8(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

automatically provide the information in a language based on the language settings in their browser.  
Data subjects exercising their right of access are informed about the function in several ways. In each copy of personal data provided in accordance with Article 15.3 of the Data Protection Regulation, a link to the information is included. The information can also be found online, both in the list of available features on the company's "Privacy & Security" page and via the answer to the question "Where can I find information about Spotify's processing of personal data that Spotify is obliged to provide under Article 15 of the GDPR?" on the company's "Data Subject Rights and Privacy Settings" page.  
In the information6 provided by Spotify in accordance with Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation during the period from November 16, 2021, to May 16, 2022, which IMY has reviewed, Spotify provided, among other things, information about the purpose of processing (Article 15.1 a), which categories of personal data are processed (Article 15.1 b), recipients or categories of recipients (Article 15.1 c), and the source of the personal data (Article 15.1 g). In addition, the information according to Article 15 also included information about international transfers (Article 15.2), criteria for how long personal data is retained (Article 15.1 d), what rights the data subject has (Article 15.1 e), the right to lodge a complaint with the data protection authority (Article 15.1 f), automated decision-making (Article 15.1 h), and the possibility of obtaining a copy of personal data.  
In the information according to Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation, Spotify also informed that the processing of personal data is described in more detail in the company's privacy policy, which could also be accessed via a direct link. The privacy policy includes, among other things, descriptions of the categories of personal data that Spotify processes.  
Spotify has stated that any questions not answered by the information according to Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation or that have not been satisfactorily explained to the user are promptly escalated to the company's data protection team. In this way, the company states, the data protection team becomes aware of and is given the opportunity to respond to questions for clarification or requests for more individualized information about the processing of personal data according to Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation.  
3.1.2 Assessment by the Swedish Data Protection Authority  
IMY notes that Spotify's information function according to Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation was available on several different pages of Spotify's website during the period under review. Furthermore, a link to the information was included in the "Read me first" file attached to each copy of personal data provided to the data subject in accordance with Article 15.3 of the Data Protection Regulation upon a request for access. IMY assesses, considering the above, that Spotify's procedures during the relevant period were sufficient to ensure that information according to Article 15 was provided to the data subject upon each request for access.  
IMY further notes that Spotify's information according to Article 15 of the Data Protection Regulation included all the points of information that must be provided to the data subject according to Article 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the Data Protection Regulation. For the information to meet the requirements set out in the Data Protection Regulation, it must  

6 See Appendix 2
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
9(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

The information must also be designed in such a way that the purpose of the right of access is fulfilled.  
The purpose of the right of access is for the data subject to be aware that processing is taking place and to be able to verify that it is lawful, as stated in Recital 63 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). A data subject should, for example, have the opportunity to verify which categories of data are being processed about him or her, for what purposes, and for how long. In order for the data subject to be able to verify whether the processing of personal data is lawful, he or she must know which processing activities are relevant in his or her specific case. The information provided must therefore be given in a manner that meets the transparency requirements in Article 12.1 of the GDPR.  
In light of the purpose of the right of access, there is often a need to tailor the content of the information according to Articles 15.1 and 15.2 of the GDPR to the data subject who has made the request, for example, depending on which of the data controller's services the data subject has chosen to use. However, this does not apply to all parts of the information. While the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority (Article 15.1 f of the GDPR) does not change depending on who requests access, other information may vary depending on which service the data subject uses, such as which categories of personal data are processed, recipients, and where personal data has been collected from. The same applies to information on whether a transfer has taken place to a third country and, if so, what appropriate safeguards have been implemented during the transfer.  
In order for the data subject to have the opportunity to verify that the processing concerning him or her is lawful, it is therefore required, in accordance with what has been stated above, that Spotify has taken measures to tailor the information to the specific situation of the data subject.  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) notes that the information provided by Spotify in accordance with Article 15 of the GDPR was generally formulated. The same information was thus provided regardless of who requested access under Article 15 of the GDPR. The information was therefore not tailored based on each access request. However, Spotify described when certain information was relevant for the data subject, for example, "If you use a third-party service (...)", "If you choose to pay for a service or feature via invoice (...)", and "In cases where you have given us permission (...)." This provided certain conditions for the data subject to determine which information pertained to him or her. There was also an opportunity for data subjects to contact Spotify and request more individualized information as well as clarifications of the information that had been provided.  
IMY believes that such generally formulated information may be appropriate for standardized services that involve personal data processing. However, for data subjects to understand how their personal data is processed, it must always be possible to clearly and simply ascertain which information is applicable in which situations based on the information provided. This means that the possibility for data subjects to contact Spotify for more individualized information as well as clarifications does not affect the assessment of whether the information is sufficiently clear in this regard. Generally formulated information must not lead to any ambiguities regarding  

7 Cf. European Data Protection Board (EDPB) guidelines on the right of access – Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights – Right of access, version 2.0 (final adopted on March 28, 2023), point 113.  
8 See Appendix 2
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
10(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

whether the data subject is affected by the relevant information or not based on their individual situation. The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) must therefore assess whether the information provided by Spotify met these requirements.  

Information about categories of personal data, purposes, recipients, and source  
Information about the purposes of the processing must relate to the purposes for which the data subject's personal data is actually processed, and must not merely consist of a list of various purposes without clarifying which purposes are relevant for the requester. Furthermore, information about the categories of personal data being processed may need to be tailored to the circumstances of the data subject requesting access. Regarding information about recipients or categories of recipients, such information should be as specific as possible. The data controller should normally specify to which actual recipients the personal data has been or will be disclosed, unless it is impossible due to, for example, the lack of information about who the recipients are. In addition, all available information should be provided about the source of the personal data, if the personal data has not been collected from the data subject.  

As for the information provided by Spotify regarding the purposes of the processing, recipients of personal data, and the source from which the data was collected, IMY notes that the information was divided according to different categories of personal data. These categories of personal data consisted of "user data," "usage data," "plan verification data," "voice data," "payment and purchase data," and "competition, survey, and lottery data." The categories of personal data specified were generally phrased and, in several cases, such as regarding "user data" and "usage data," contained no further description of which personal data could be included. IMY believes that, particularly in the absence of a clear description of the relevant categories, it was not possible for the data subjects to understand from the information provided which personal data was included in the various categories. Since the information about purposes, recipients, and source was categorized according to these categories of personal data, this deficiency also meant that it was not possible for data subjects to easily understand which personal data was processed for which purposes, which personal data was obtained from which source, or which personal data was disclosed to a specific recipient or category of recipients. The data subjects thus did not have the opportunity to discern how their personal data was processed.  

IMY therefore considers that Spotify did not provide sufficiently clear information about the purposes of the processing (Article 15.1 a of the General Data Protection Regulation), the categories of personal data to which the processing relates (Article 15.1 b of the General Data Protection Regulation), recipients or categories of recipients (Article 15.1 c of the General Data Protection Regulation), or the source from which the data was collected (Article 15.1 g of the General Data Protection Regulation). The information was not concise, clear, and transparent, nor was it easily accessible. It thus also did not meet the requirements of Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  

Information about the retention period  
Information provided about how long personal data is stored must be sufficiently specific for the data subject to understand how long their personal data will be stored. If it is not possible to specify the time of deletion, the relevant  

9 Cf. European Data Protection Board (EDPB) guidelines on the right of access – Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights – Right of access, version 2.0 (adopted on March 28, 2023), points 114-120 and judgment on January 12, 2023, in the Court of Justice of the European Union case C-154/21, Österreichische Post.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
11(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

The event affecting retention is specified, for example, the end of a warranty period. The retention periods shall pertain to the personal data linked to the data subject requesting access. If these personal data are subject to different retention periods, information about the retention periods shall be provided in relation to each relevant processing of personal data and category of personal data.10  
Spotify provided information about retention periods under the heading "Criteria for Retention of Personal Data." The information included general details about the purposes for which personal data is retained and the criteria used to determine the retention periods. Among other things, it was stated that personal data is retained by default for 90 days, unless a longer period is chosen due to a legitimate business reason. Furthermore, it was indicated that personal data is stored for an appropriate period to deliver a personalized service over time and that streaming history is typically retained for the lifetime of an account.  
The information regarding how long data is retained was generally formulated and, with the exception of information about streaming history, not clearly linked to which categories of personal data were subject to the various retention periods. Therefore, data subjects could hardly discern which of their personal data were retained for which time period. The criteria for determining the retention period specified in the information were, in some cases, very imprecise. For example, it is difficult for a data subject to understand what is included in "legitimate business reason" and thus in which situations personal data were retained longer than 90 days or what it meant that streaming history was "typically" retained for the lifetime of an account.  
IMY considers, upon a comprehensive assessment, that the information provided regarding retention periods did not meet the requirements of Article 15.1 d of the General Data Protection Regulation, partly because the information in this regard was generally formulated and lacked connection to the relevant category of personal data, and partly because some of the criteria used to determine the retention period were too imprecise for the data subject to understand how long their personal data were stored. The information was not concise, clear, and unambiguous, nor was it easily accessible. Thus, it also did not meet the requirements of Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
Information on Transfers to Third Countries  
For the data subject to assess whether a potential transfer of their personal data to a third country is legal, the data subject must receive meaningful information that allows them to ascertain whether their personal data has been transferred and, if so, what protective measures have been used. To enable the data subject to verify whether their personal data has been processed lawfully, it should normally also be clear to which third countries the transfer has occurred.11  
In the information that Spotify provided regarding transfers to third countries, it was stated under the heading "International Transfers" that Spotify may share personal data globally with other companies in the Spotify Group, service providers, partners, etc. Furthermore, it was indicated that Spotify ensures that the transfer is carried out in accordance with applicable data protection and privacy laws and that technical and organizational measures, and in particular appropriate safeguards, are applied, e.g., the standard contractual clauses that  

10 European Data Protection Board (EDPB) guidelines on the right of access – Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights – Right of access, version 2.0 (final adopted on March 28, 2023), point 118.  
11 Cf. Article 29 Working Party's Guidelines on Transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679, WP260rev.01, adopted by the European Data Protection Board, p. 40.
Integritetsskyddsmyndigheten  
Diarienummer: DI-2019-6696  
12(30)  
Datum: 2023-06-12  

approved by the EU Commission when personal data is transferred from the European Economic Area (EEA).  
IMY notes that the information provided by Spotify regarding transfers to third countries was generally formulated and not linked to the data subject's own situation. It was not clear whether the data subject's personal data had been transferred to any third country, and if so, what appropriate safeguards had been implemented during the transfer. It was also not specified to which third countries the transfer had occurred. Therefore, IMY assesses that the information provided regarding transfers to third countries did not meet the requirements of Article 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The information was not concise, clear, and transparent, nor was it easily accessible. Thus, it also did not meet the requirements of Article 12.1 of the GDPR.  
Summary assessment of the information according to Articles 15.1 and 15.2 of the GDPR  
In summary, IMY finds that the information provided by Spotify according to Articles 15.1 and 15.2 of the GDPR during the period from November 16, 2021, to May 16, 2022, has been deficient in the respects mentioned above. Spotify has thus processed personal data in violation of Articles 12.1, 15.1 a-d, 15.1 g, and 15.2 of the GDPR.  
3.2 Right of access to personal data and copy of personal data under processing – Article 15.1 and 15.3 of the GDPR  
3.2.1 What has emerged in the case  
Spotify has stated that their responses to access requests, with a few exceptions, are designed to provide all personal data they process concerning the data subject. The company has further outlined its procedures to ensure that all personal data is disclosed, for example, in the case of new or updated personal data processing activities.  
The copy of personal data that Spotify provides under Article 15.3 of the GDPR can be given through three different responses, Type 1, Type 2, and Type 3.  
The personal data covered by Type 1 includes profile information and the personal data that Spotify has assessed to be of greatest interest to the data subjects. Therefore, Type 1 includes the data subject's playlists, streaming history, and searches from the past year, items saved in the data subject's library, the number of followers the data subject has, the number of users the data subject follows, the names of artists the data subject follows, user data, and payment information. To provide the data subject access to Type 1 information, the company has implemented a feature called "download your data" on a privacy settings webpage. The webpage through which the data subject can access this information is available to all customers via their Spotify account and is provided in the same language as their Spotify service. The data subjects receive access to Type 1 information within approximately seven days. The data subjects can also access Type 1 information by contacting Spotify's customer service.  
Type 2 information consists of technical log files stored in Spotify's system linked to the data subjects' user IDs. To access Type 2 information, the data subject can submit a request via Spotify's web form for privacy inquiries or by contacting customer service or Spotify's data protection officer through any
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
13(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

another channel (email, Facebook, Twitter, or letter). It takes approximately two to four weeks to compile and provide these personal data.  
Type 3 information consists of the information that a data subject specifically requests and may, for example, relate to the data subject's listening history on a specific date, an extended listening history, or a request for unstructured personal data, such as a request for a specific email correspondence. Type 3 information can be requested in the same way as Type 2, and such a request typically takes less than 30 days to process. In the event that it takes longer to process the request due to the complexity of the request, the data subject will be informed of the delay.  
On June 15, 2021, Spotify implemented changes that mean that all Spotify users who request a copy of personal data beyond what is available in the "Download your data" tool, or who directly request a copy of all their personal data from Spotify's customer service, will have access to extended streaming history as well as technical log information in one package.  
Spotify has stated that the design of the process and its development to date is a collective result of joint discussions, careful considerations and analyses, as well as meetings with the relevant customer service and development teams. Spotify's data protection team has provided advice regarding legal requirements and "best practices" in data protection and continues to update these continuously based on a number of identified parameters, including relevant and current legislation, guidelines, the ability to quickly respond to a large number of requests, user-friendliness, and categories of personal data processed.  
Spotify has reported that they have over 232 million active users per month and that during the period from May 25, 2018, to June 30, 2019, they responded to 753,575 access requests. According to Spotify, the division of data into three different types has made it possible to provide a quick and easy way for the data subject to download the personal data that is likely to be most relevant to the data subject and to generate responses on a large scale and with the speed required to satisfy the majority of data subjects.  
Spotify further refers to statements in the EDPB's guidelines on transparency regarding the inherent tension in the General Data Protection Regulation between the requirements to provide data subjects with comprehensive information on the one hand and that the information should be provided in a concise, clear, and understandable form that is easily accessible on the other hand, that one must determine how to prioritize the information that must be provided to data subjects and what levels of detail and methods are appropriate for conveying the information, and that the principle of transparency is an overarching obligation. Spotify believes that these guidelines are relevant to the design of a concise, open, easily understandable, and easily accessible process for data subjects to exercise their rights under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation. By providing three layers of responses to requests for access from data subjects, Spotify aims to balance the interests of the General Data Protection Regulation appropriately in favor of Spotify's data subjects. Spotify's goal is to provide accurate information in accordance with Article 15 to all data subjects at the right time by providing information in different layers and in different ways.  
Spotify has stated that the company informed data subjects that it was possible to request access to more personal data than that covered by Type 1 and Type 2, as well as  

12 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679, WP260rev.01, adopted by the European Data Protection Board, point 1 and point 34.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
14(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

that this information was provided to the data subjects before they requested access to their personal data. Furthermore, Spotify has stated that it was clear that the data subjects could request access to more personal data than what was covered by Type 1 by requesting a Type 2 response. Additionally, data subjects could contact Spotify's customer service with specific inquiries (so-called Type 3 requests). Information about this is provided in various ways, including on the webpage for "Data Protection Rights and Privacy Settings" and on the webpage where information according to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation is published. When a user requests access to the personal data covered by Type 1 by going to "Download Your Data," it is also clear from the context that users receive access to a selection of their personal data and not all of their personal data. On the "Download Your Data" page, there is also a reference to the webpage "Data Protection Rights and Privacy Settings." In response to both Type 1 and Type 2 requests, information is provided according to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which contains a comprehensive description of the available data. The information sources also explain that the user can request access to their personal data via customer service or by contacting Spotify via email. If a user contacts Spotify's customer service to exercise the right of access under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation, customer service can explain all three types of personal data that are available and inform users about the additional information that is accessible. The data subjects were also informed that they could request access to more personal data than what they had already downloaded on the webpage "Understand My Data."  
Spotify has further updated the information directed at the data subjects during the handling of the case in order to make it more transparent for data subjects that there is more to request than what is available in the "Download Your Data" tool.  
Regarding the clarity of the information, Spotify has stated the following. In designing the format for responses to access requests, the company focused on providing all information in a way that makes it relevant, transparent, and helpful for the data subjects. The company developed a routine to ensure that the descriptions of the personal data are accurate and complete, which included extensive efforts to translate technical information into simple language that can be understood by an average customer, without removing the details required for transparency. To facilitate understanding, Spotify does the following:  
– When downloading Type 1 information, the data subject also receives a so-called "Read Me First" file. In the "Read Me First" file, there is a link to the webpage "Understand My Data," where the format and personal data included in Type 1 are described. This page has been updated during the handling of the case to now also include a general description of the data in the technical log files and the extended streaming history. The linked pages are automatically displayed in the customer's preferred language based on the language settings in the customer's browser.  
– In the Type 2 information, which consists of technical log files, there is some information that is very technical in nature. To help data subjects understand the formatting of the personal data, Spotify provides a detailed description of the personal data in a separate file when the data is disclosed (in a "Read Me First" file for Type 2 requests). This description is provided by default in English. Spotify also responds to customers' questions about the meaning of the personal data provided as part of its process for data subjects' access requests. Spotify continuously updates both  

13 From June 15, 2019, Type 2 information, in addition to the technical log files, also includes extended listening history.
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
15(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

the format for technical log files related to the customer's user ID (Type 2) and  
corresponding information in the Type 2 “Read Me First” file to increase transparency  
based on the questions raised.  
– As for specific requests (Type 3), when the personal data provided may require  
explanations, Spotify may, if necessary, provide the information in an email to the  
data subject along with a copy of the personal data.  
Spotify has stated the following as background for the description of Type 2 data  
being provided in English by default. To ensure that the information the company  
provides to the data subjects is accurately translated into their local languages, the  
files to be translated are sent for manual translation to professional translators.  
Given that technical log data changes more dynamically over time than other  
personal data collected, the company would need to send the comprehensive “Read  
Me First” file for translation multiple times a month. This would be  
disproportionate and unreasonable to do for all local languages considering the extra  
time, resources, and administration it would entail. Furthermore, many of the terms  
found in the technical log data typically have no translation as they often reflect  
technical concepts that are primarily communicated in English and are usually not  
translated into local languages. However, the company assists in translating the  
information into the local language if a user requests it to the extent that the  
technical terms can be translated. Spotify has further stated that they have  
responded to approximately 340,000 requests for access to technical log files. Of  
these requests, only two data subjects have approached the company and requested a  
translation of the description into their local language. Spotify further argues that  
translating the technical log files without a request would mean that all data subjects  
would have to wait longer to have their right to access the technical log files fulfilled.  
Regarding the format used, Spotify has stated that personal data is provided in JSON  
format, which the company claims is a structured and commonly used format that can  
be understood by both computers and humans. However, data provided as a result of a  
Type 3 request is provided in the format necessary to respond to the request.  
Spotify has also informed IMY on October 17, 2022, that the company has since that  
time enabled data subjects to request access to account data, extended streaming  
history, and technical log information directly through the “Download Your Data”  
tool, i.e., without contacting customer service. These procedures are not covered by  
IMY's review as the update occurred after May 16, 2022.  
3.2.2 Assessment by the Swedish Data Protection Authority  
The data subject has the right under Article 15.1 of the General Data Protection  
Regulation to obtain confirmation as to whether the data controller is processing  
personal data concerning him or her and, if so, to access the personal data. The data  
controller has, according to Article 15.3, an obligation to provide the data subject  
with a copy of the personal data undergoing processing. The right of access is the  
same regardless of who the data controller is, but the manner of handling a request  
for access may vary, among other things, depending on the scope of the personal  
data being processed and the number of data subjects. According to Article 12.2 of  
the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller has an obligation to  
facilitate the data subject's exercise of their rights.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
16(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

The purpose of the right of access is to ensure that the data subject becomes aware of the processing that occurs and can verify that it is lawful. The data controller must therefore ensure that the copy of personal data provided contains all the personal data processed about the data subject and is presented in a manner that is understandable to the data subject. Access to personal data must be provided in a way that meets the transparency requirements in Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
The requirements placed on the design and content of the copy mean that data controllers who process a large amount of data or data that is particularly difficult to understand may need to take special measures when presenting the information to the data subjects.  
Spotify, whose processing of personal data is both extensive and complex, has developed specific procedures to handle access requests. The question is whether these procedures enable the company to provide access to the personal data it processes in a manner that satisfies the data subject's right of access.  

Division of the copy of personal data into different layers  
Spotify divides the copy of personal data into different layers, Type 1, Type 2, and Type 3.  
IMY believes that there is no obstacle to dividing the copy of personal data as long as the right of access is upheld. In some situations, it may, on the contrary, facilitate the data subject's understanding of the information if it is presented in a divided manner, especially when it concerns a large amount of information. However, the provision of the copy of personal data in different layers must not restrict the right of access or make its exercise more difficult. The data controller must therefore particularly consider this when assessing whether it is an appropriate measure to divide the copy of personal data.  
A data subject who approaches a data controller to request access to their personal data typically lacks knowledge of which personal data is actually being processed. Acquiring this knowledge is often the very purpose of the request. If the data controller in this situation only provides the data subject with a selection of their personal data, the data subject risks being misled into believing that the copy provided is complete.  
For this reason, IMY believes that the data controller, in the channel it has established for the data subject to request access, must be clear that the copy of the personal data is divided into different layers. It should also be clear to the data subject what information exists in the different layers and how the data subject can access them.  
In the account provided by Spotify, it is evident that the data subject, through several different channels, receives information that access to various personal data can be requested in different ways. Through these channels, it is indicated that access to "your most relevant personal data" can be obtained through the "download your data" function, and that access to technical log information, extended streaming history, or responses to other specific data protection inquiries can be obtained upon request via email or customer service. IMY can, from the examples presented in the account, ascertain that the information provided to the data subjects also includes  

14 Cf. European Data Protection Board (EDPB) guidelines on the right of access – Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights – Right of access, version 2.0 (final adopted on March 28, 2023), point 146.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
17(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

a comprehensive enumeration of which personal data the various types of requests encompass.  
IMY assesses that the information provided by Spotify in this regard, during the period covered by the review of the general procedures, is sufficiently clear for the data subject to understand how the copy is divided, including which data is present in the different layers, and how the various layers should be requested.  
Setting specific conditions for exercising the right of access without support in the General Data Protection Regulation risks improperly hindering the data subject in the exercise of their right. In other words, it may be perceived as unnecessarily complicated to exercise the right, which in turn may lead the data subject to refrain from requesting all the data they are entitled to. It is important to emphasize that the data controller, according to Article 12.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, has an obligation to facilitate the exercise of the data subject's rights. Therefore, to ensure that the provision of the copy of personal data in different layers does not restrict the right or make the exercise of the right more difficult, IMY believes that it cannot be required that the data subject returns to the data controller multiple times to gain access to all personal data. It should also not be complicated to request access to the different layers. IMY therefore believes that the data subject should have the opportunity to request access to all layers from the outset and that it should be easy to access these. Another matter is that the data subject, knowing how the data is divided, may still choose to request access to only one or several layers.  

From Spotify's account, it is clear that the data subject can request access to the different layers in various ways. It is not required that the data subject returns to Spotify to access the different layers. However, the data subject may need to take several actions to gain access to multiple layers, for example, by both downloading Type 1 information through the "download your data" function and by requesting access to Type 2 and Type 3 information through customer service. If the data subject contacts customer service directly with their request, they can request access to all personal data at once.  
IMY believes that the circumstance that the data subject must take different actions to request the various layers of data may cause some inconvenience. However, the data subject has the opportunity to take all these actions at the same time. All actions can also be easily taken via Spotify's website. In a comprehensive assessment, IMY believes that Spotify's procedures allow the data subject to request access to all of their personal data in a sufficiently simple manner.  

The design of the copy and the format of the copy  
According to Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the information provided under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation must be given in a concise, clear, and transparent, understandable, and easily accessible form using clear and plain language. The requirements for clarity in the individual case must be assessed against the background of the purpose of the right of access, i.e., that the data subject should be made aware of the processing that occurs and be able to verify that the processing is lawful.  

15 Cf. European Data Protection Board (EDPB) guidelines on the right of access – Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights – Right of access, version 2.0 (final adopted on March 28, 2023), point 146.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
18(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

Most of the data that Spotify processes, particularly regarding the data in the technical log files, is inherently very technical as it contains, among other things, codes and numbers. Such data may be difficult for an average data subject to understand. Providing such data without further explanation would, according to IMY, not meet the requirements for clarity, considering the purpose of the right. Since the data to be provided under Article 15.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation and covered by a copy under Article 15.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation must be the personal data being processed, it is not permissible for the data controller to alter incomprehensible personal data to facilitate understanding. Such data may instead need to be explained.  
Spotify provides additional descriptions along with the copy of personal data to make the information in the various layers comprehensible for the data subject. Spotify also responds to data subjects' questions regarding the meaning of the personal data provided and updates its general procedures and descriptions based on the questions asked.  
IMY believes that the data in the technical log files provided by Spotify can be complicated to understand, despite the descriptions that Spotify provides. However, IMY considers that by providing these descriptions, Spotify enables the data subject, albeit with some effort, to comprehend the information. The fact that some particularly complicated data may require some effort from the data subject to understand, despite the descriptions, is a natural consequence of the nature of this data.  
Spotify, as a standard, only provides the detailed description of the data in the technical log files in English. Neither Article 12.1 nor Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation contains any explicit requirement regarding the language in which personal data, or the description of such data, should be provided to the data subject. However, IMY believes that it follows from the purpose of the right of access and the requirements for clarity in Article 12.1 that data subjects should be able to receive the information in a language they understand, at least when the data controller targets its operations to countries where this constitutes an official language.16 This means that the data controller must take sufficient measures to ensure that the data subject understands the information.  
Spotify provides the vast majority of the information given to data subjects under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation, including a general description of what the technical log files may include, based on the language settings in the individual’s web settings, i.e., the local language. Furthermore, Spotify provides clear information, in the local language, about the possibility to request a translation of the description of the technical log files in the “Read Me First” file that is provided with each access request. This information is also provided in the local language on the “Understand My Data” webpage. Thus, Spotify has taken extensive measures to provide information in a language that the data subject should be able to understand. However, Spotify has reported significant difficulties in translating the description of the data in the technical log files into all local languages in the countries to which it targets its operations. The difficulties stem from the constant changes in the data in the technical log files and the fact that many technical terms are difficult to translate from English.  

16 Cf. Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on transparency under Regulation (EU) 2016/679, WP260rev.01, adopted by the European Data Protection Board, paragraph 13 and the European Data Protection Board's (EDPB) guidelines on the right of access – Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights – Right of access, version 2.0 (finalized on March 28, 2023) paragraph 142.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
19(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

However, IMY notes that Spotify has stated that they have the ability to translate the description of the data in the technical log files into a local language at the request of a data subject, to the extent that the technical terms can be translated. Since a translation is therefore practically possible, IMY believes that such a translation should be provided even before a request for translation has been made by a data subject. Spotify's stated difficulties in translating the description, including that translation may need to be done several times each month and the additional resources this requires, cannot justify that the description is provided in English by default. Considering the purpose of the right of access, it is crucial that the data subject understands which of their personal data has been processed in the technical log files, which requires a comprehensible description of its content. IMY therefore believes that Spotify should have provided the description in the local language at the time the technical log files were provided to the data subject, at least to the extent necessary to understand the data in the technical log files.  

Against this background, IMY believes that Spotify has not taken sufficient measures to ensure that the data subject understands the description of the data in the technical log files when this information is provided in English by default. The information that Spotify provides in this regard therefore does not meet the requirements that all communication provided to the data subject under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) must be clear and understandable in the manner specified in Article 12.1 of the GDPR. The fact that a data subject has the opportunity to return to Spotify to request a translation does not remedy this deficiency.  

According to Article 15.3 of the GDPR, a data subject making a request for access in electronic form shall receive the information in a commonly used electronic format, unless the data subject requests otherwise. Spotify provides the data in JSON format. In the guidelines on the right to data portability, JSON format is given as an example of a commonly used open format.  

IMY notes that the requirements for format differ for the right to data portability and the right of access, as data portability under Article 20.1 of the GDPR also requires that the data be provided in a structured and machine-readable format. In terms of the purpose of the right of access, IMY requires that the format in which the data is provided under Article 15 of the GDPR must be readable by a natural person. However, there is nothing to prevent the format from also being machine-readable. Such a format can, in many cases, simplify for the data subject to compile or search for various information to facilitate understanding. IMY believes that JSON format, which can be read by both computers and natural persons, is currently such an electronic commonly used format referred to in Article 15.3 of the GDPR.  

Summary assessment regarding the right of access to personal data and a copy of personal data under processing – Articles 15.1 and 15.3 of the GDPR  
In summary, IMY finds that Spotify's method of dividing the copy of personal data into different layers does not hinder the exercise of the rights of the data subjects and is thus consistent with Article 12.2 of the GDPR, and that the design and format of the copy of personal data largely meet the transparency requirements in Article 12.1 of the GDPR.  

17 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on the Right to Data Portability, WP242 rev.01, adopted by the European Data Protection Board, p. 19.
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Case Number: DI-2019-6696  
20(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

The Swedish Data Protection Authority finds that the description of the data in the technical log files that Spotify provided during the period from June 11, 2019, to May 16, 2022, did not meet the requirements of Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, as this information was, by default, only provided in English. Spotify has thus processed personal data in violation of Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation during the relevant time period.  

4 Review of Individual Complaints - Justification of Decision  
4.1 Complaint 1 (from the Netherlands with national reference number z2018-28415)  
4.1.1 Background  
The complainant has summarized that Spotify, in response to his access request made on May 27, 2018, did not provide access to all of his personal data within the time frame prescribed in Article 12.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation, and that, when he did receive access to all personal data, it was not provided in an understandable form as required by Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  

4.1.2 What has emerged in the case  
Spotify provides three types of responses to ensure an appropriate and complete response to its users' requests under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation. Spotify has stated that information about all three types of responses (Type 1, Type 2, and Type 3) as well as information on how to request access to them was available at the time of the complainant's request. In connection with a user choosing to download their data (Type 1), it was indicated in the description and instructions directly related to the download tool that this was merely a convenient way to obtain a copy of "most" personal data from their account and which categories of personal data were available via the tool. In context, it was therefore sufficiently clear that other personal data was also available. The complainant also had the opportunity to contact customer service through several channels and request additional personal data. The complainant also had the opportunity to contact customer service and directly request access to all of his personal data.  

Spotify believes that the process at that time was sufficiently transparent for users to understand and request additional available data beyond what was included in the "Download Your Data" tool. Many other users also requested both Type 2 and Type 3 data at that time. The complainant was also able to request and gain access to both Type 1 and Type 2 information. Spotify has since made several improvements to its processes to ensure that users cannot miss that all three types of information are available and how to easily request access to that information.  

Spotify has stated that regarding the provision of the complainant's personal data, all requested personal data was provided within the time frame specified in Article 12.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation. "Download Your Data" (Type 1) was requested by the complainant on May 27, 2018. The data was made available and downloaded by the complainant on May 28, 2018. A response time of one day aligns with Spotify's goal of quickly providing the most relevant information to users through their automated tools.
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
21(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

Technical log files (Type 2) were requested by the complainant via email on June 11, 2018. In Spotify's response on July 6, 2018, Spotify informed the complainant that the provision of personal data would take a little longer than expected due to the high number of requests and the complexity of compiling such technical information. The information was made available for download on July 17, 2018. Even after informing the complainant about the reason for the delay, only 36 calendar days (26 working days) elapsed between the complainant's request and the receipt of the response. Regarding the complainant's complaint about the format of the personal data, Spotify stated that Type 2 data contains a large number of files with technical log data. The data processed may vary significantly for different users based on the type of Spotify service plan they have (e.g., Free, Premium, Family), features, and the specific user's activity, as well as variations in the usual internal processing and error logging of the Spotify software itself. It is a challenge to find a way to explain this type of technical information in a manner that the average Spotify user can understand.  
At the time of the complainant's request, Spotify provided the information in a JSON format. However, Spotify did not provide any supplementary documentation to further clarify what types of data were included and how these should be interpreted (beyond the information contained in the JSON data fields themselves). Since 2019, however, Spotify has provided a supplementary "Read Me First" file with the delivery of all Type 2 data, which further describes the information included in each file and data field. Given the complexity and volume of the technical log files, the creation of the "Read Me First" file required significant work, and Spotify had not yet completed this process at the time of the complainant's original access request. It was a mistake that the complainant was provided with some of the technical log files in encrypted format. Spotify stores data in its systems in encrypted format to enhance the integrity and security related to the company's own internal processing of personal data. It was not Spotify's intention to withhold the complainant's personal data from him. Although most encrypted data was decrypted before being included in the complainant's technical log files, some fields were not decrypted. Such issues were addressed upon discovery, and now requested personal data is always provided unencrypted.  
Spotify wishes to draw IMY's attention to the fact that the complainant requested his personal data again in July 2020. This request came after his complaint to IMY and the improvements described above. The complainant received his personal data significantly faster than within 30 days. The complainant requested "Download your data" (Type 1) on July 28, 2020. Spotify provided the personal data three calendar days later, on July 31, 2020. The complainant also requested his technical log files (Type 2) on August 3, 2020, and downloaded the personal data when it became available 15 days later, on August 18, 2020. Both of these requests were answered within a total of 18 days by Spotify, and the complainant was able to receive all his personal data within a total of 21 calendar days. This timeframe is representative of Spotify's handling of these types of requests from users. All technical information that the complainant received on August 18, 2020, was unencrypted. The complainant is also said to have received a "Read Me First" file that explained the provided data field by field. With the fulfillment of the complainant's latest request, Spotify hopes that all of the complainant's questions regarding Articles 12.1 and 12.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation that he raised in his complaint have been answered.
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
22(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

4.1.3 Assessment by the Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
As IMY notes in its assessment of the company's general routines, section 3.2.2 of this decision, it is possible to divide the copy of personal data into different layers provided that the data subject has received sufficient information, among other things, about how the copy of personal data is divided and how access to the different layers can be requested.  
The complainant's assertion that his personal data was not provided in a timely manner indicates that the complainant must have believed that his initial request sent on May 27, 2018, concerned all personal data that Spotify processed about him. Furthermore, information provided by the complainant shows that he contacted Spotify because he himself noticed that the copy of personal data he received on May 28, 2018, was not complete. The fact that he contacted Spotify was thus a consequence of the conclusions the complainant himself drew from the copy of personal data he received and not because the complainant understood Spotify's division of the copy of personal data and how to request access to additional information. According to IMY, these circumstances indicate that the information provided by Spotify at the time of the complainant's request regarding the division of the copy of personal data was not sufficiently clear.  
IMY further considers that in assessing the information provided by Spotify in the description and instructions when the complainant made his Type 1 request on May 27, 2018, that information alone was not sufficiently clear for the complainant to understand that it was only a subset of the personal data that was covered by the request. At the time of the complainant's request, the information that is now available on Spotify's website was also lacking, including on the webpage for "Data Subject Rights and Privacy Settings," where it is stated which personal data is provided in the different responses and how access to these can be requested. IMY further believes that Spotify's assertion that the complainant could contact customer service and request additional information is irrelevant since such action presupposes that the complainant would have understood that there were additional personal data that could be disclosed.  
In light of the above, IMY assesses that Spotify, at the time of the complainant's request for access, did not provide sufficiently clear information for the complainant to understand that the copy of personal data was divided. That there is sufficient information for a data subject to understand that their request only concerns a selection of the personal data being processed is a prerequisite for the data controller to be able to limit the disclosure to these personal data. In cases where it is unclear whether the request only concerns a selection of the personal data, the data controller should therefore assume that the data subject wishes to have access to all of their personal data. Spotify should therefore, since the information in this regard was inadequate at the time of the complainant's request, have disclosed all personal data that they processed about the complainant in connection with his request for access made on May 27, 2018. The time within which Spotify had to provide the copy of all personal data should therefore be calculated from this point in time. According to Article 12.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation, Spotify should have provided a complete copy of the complainant's personal data or notified the complainant of an extension of the time period no later than June 27, 2018. Spotify first notified the complainant of an extension of the time period on July 6, 2018. The copy of the additional personal data was provided on July 17, 2018. IMY notes that Spotify did not notify the extension within the time prescribed in Article 12.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation. Therefore, Spotify provided the copy of the complainant's personal data late.
Integrity Protection Authority  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
23(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

From the complainant's information, which has been confirmed by Spotify, it appears that the additional personal data he accessed on July 17, 2018, was difficult to understand and, in some cases, encrypted.  
As IMY states in section 3.2.2, it is required that the data controller explains particularly difficult-to-understand personal data for the purpose of the right of access to be considered fulfilled. IMY finds that Spotify has not fulfilled its obligations in the complainant's case as they did not provide an explanation for the particularly difficult-to-understand data they provided in the copy and because they released certain data in an encrypted form.  
IMY concludes, in light of the above, that Spotify, in its handling of the complainant's access request made on May 27, 2018, has processed personal data in violation of Article 12.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), by providing the copy of personal data too late, and in violation of Articles 12.1, 15.1, and 15.3 of the GDPR, by not providing all of the complainant's personal data in an understandable form.  

4.2 Complaint 2 (from Austria with national reference number D130.198)  
4.2.1 Background  
The complainant has asserted that Spotify, in response to his access request made on October 10, 2018, did not provide all the personal data that Spotify processes about the complainant, that Spotify did not provide any of the information about the processing of the complainant's personal data required under Article 15.1 a–h and 15.2 of the GDPR, and that Spotify did not provide the personal data in an understandable form as prescribed in Article 12.1 of the GDPR. The complainant has indicated, among other things, that the data was provided in a format that is only machine-readable and not understandable for natural persons.  

4.2.2 What has emerged in the case  
Spotify has stated that the complainant requested access to "Download your data" (Type 1) on October 10, 2018. The data was made available and downloaded by the complainant on October 18, 2018. The complainant did not contact Spotify again to raise the concerns mentioned in his complaint to IMY. He also did not request access to additional information beyond what was made available through the "Download your data" tool.  
Spotify provides three types of responses to ensure an appropriate and complete response to its users' requests under Article 15 of the GDPR. Spotify has stated that information about all three types of responses (Type 1, Type 2, and Type 3), as well as information on how to request access to them, was available at the time of the complainant's request. When a user chose to download their data (Type 1), it was clear from the description and instructions directly related to the tool that this was merely a convenient way to obtain a copy of "most" personal data from their account and which categories of personal data were available via the tool. In context, it was therefore sufficiently clear that other personal data was also available. The complainant also had the opportunity to contact customer service through several channels and request additional personal data.  
Spotify believes that the process at that time was sufficiently transparent for users to understand and request additional available data beyond the
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Case Number: DI-2019-6696  
24(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

as included in the tool "Download Your Data." Many other users also requested both Type 2 and Type 3 data at that time. Spotify has since made several improvements to its processes to ensure that users cannot miss that all three types of information are available and how to easily request access to that information.  
At the time of the complainant's request, the specific webpage with information according to Article 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation had not yet been created, and such information was not automatically included in the response to the access request. Spotify confirms that the complainant did not receive this information along with their Type 1 response in October 2018. Spotify notes that although the complainant did not receive the specific information according to Article 15 in connection with their request, the information was available to the complainant in Spotify's privacy policy.  
Spotify has further stated that the company had processes in place to provide additional information and take action in the event that their response would not be considered sufficient to fully address a data subject's access request. If the complainant had contacted privacy@spotify.com or Spotify's customer service team regarding their questions, they would have gladly provided additional personal data and other information according to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation that he requested.  
It is true that the complainant's "Download Your Data" information was provided in JSON format. JSON is a recommended standard format that can be understood by both humans and computers. The information in "Download Your Data" (Type 1) is largely self-explanatory based on the names of the files and fields. However, Spotify now also provides a detailed description of the data on the information webpage, "Understand My Data."  
4.2.3 Assessment of the Swedish Data Protection Authority  
As IMY notes in its assessment of the company's general procedures, section 3.2.2 of this decision, it is possible to divide the copy of personal data into different layers provided that the data subject has received sufficient information, among other things, about how the copy of personal data is divided and how access to the different layers can be requested.  
The complainant has, as IMY understands it, wanted access to all the data that Spotify processes about him. However, the complainant has only requested access to Type 1 data and has not returned to Spotify for further information. The complainant's actions indicate, according to IMY, that the information provided by Spotify at the time of the complainant's request regarding the division of the copy of personal data and how access to the different layers could be requested was not sufficiently clear for the complainant to understand how he could gain access to all the data.  
IMY further considers, in assessing the information that Spotify provided in the description and instructions in connection with the complainant's Type 1 request on October 10, 2018, that this information alone was not sufficiently clear for the complainant to understand that it was only a subset of the personal data that was covered by the request. At the time of the complainant's request, the information that is now available on Spotify's website was also missing, including on the webpage for "Data Subject Rights and Privacy Settings," where it is stated which personal data is provided in the different responses and how access to these can be requested. IMY further considers that what Spotify has stated about the complainant being able to contact customer service and request additional data is irrelevant, as such an action presupposes that
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
25(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

The complainant should have understood that there were additional personal data that could be disclosed.  
In light of the above, IMY assesses that Spotify, at the time of the complainant's request for access, did not provide sufficiently clear information for the complainant to understand that the copy of personal data was divided. The existence of sufficient information for a data subject to understand that their request only pertains to a selection of the personal data being processed is a prerequisite for the data controller to limit the disclosure to these personal data. In cases where it is unclear whether the request only pertains to a selection of the personal data, the data controller should therefore assume that the data subject wishes to have access to all of their personal data. Spotify should therefore have disclosed all personal data they processed about the complainant, as the information in this regard was insufficient at the time of the complainant's request. IMY notes that Spotify did not disclose all personal data they processed about the complainant. Therefore, Spotify has not fulfilled the requirements in Articles 15.1 and 15.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to provide the data subject access to their personal data, as the company did not provide the data subject with a complete copy of the personal data that was being processed.  
The complainant has further stated that the personal data he received was difficult to understand. Spotify's response indicates that at the time of the complainant's request, there was a lack of a description of the data provided to the complainant (Type 1). However, IMY assesses that the data provided according to a Type 1 request is sufficiently clear for the average user to understand the data and therefore does not require any further explanation. IMY therefore believes that the personal data provided has been sufficiently clear to meet the requirements under Article 12.1 of the GDPR, i.e., that the information provided under Article 15 of the GDPR should be given in a concise, clear, and transparent, understandable, and easily accessible form using clear and plain language. There has therefore been no deficiency regarding how clear the personal data provided to the complainant was. IMY, however, views positively the improvements that Spotify has implemented since that time, which may further enhance the understanding of the personal data provided in Type 1 responses.  
The complainant has also asserted that his personal data was provided in a format that was only machine-readable and not understandable for natural persons. Spotify has stated that the data was provided in JSON format. IMY believes, as also indicated above under 3.2.2, that JSON format, which can be read by both computers and natural persons, is currently a commonly used electronic format referred to in Article 15.3 of the GDPR. IMY therefore believes that there has been no deficiency regarding the format in which the data was provided to the complainant.  
Finally, the complainant has claimed that he did not receive information according to Articles 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the GDPR. Spotify has confirmed that the complainant did not receive this information along with the response to the request made in October 2018. Spotify has thus not fulfilled its obligation to provide information in connection with the complainant's request for access according to Articles 15.1 a-h and 15.2. The fact that information was available at the time of the complainant's request in the company's privacy policy does not remedy this deficiency.  
In summary, IMY concludes that Spotify, in its handling of the complainant's request for access made on October 10, 2018, has processed personal data in violation of Articles 15.1 and 15.3 of the GDPR by failing to provide access to
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
26(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

all personal data that Spotify processed about the complainant and in violation of  
Article 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, by failing to provide  
any of the information specified in these provisions.  
4.3 Complaint 3 (from Denmark with national reference number  
2018-31-1198)  
The complainant has asserted that Spotify did not respond to the complainant's request for  
access under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation made on November 12,  
2018.  
The investigation in the matter has not shown that Spotify has failed in its handling of the  
complainant's request for access, which means that the current complaint should be rejected.  
The receiving supervisory authority, i.e., the Danish Data Protection Authority, shall therefore  
adopt the decision regarding this complaint in accordance with Article 60.8 of the General Data  
Protection Regulation.  
The reasoning for the decision in this part is thus presented in a separate decision from the  
Danish Data Protection Authority.  
5 Choice of Intervention  
5.1 Applicable Provisions  
The Swedish Data Protection Authority (IMY) has a number of corrective powers in the event of  
violations of the General Data Protection Regulation, including reprimands, orders, and  
administrative fines. This follows from Article 58.2 a–j of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
IMY shall impose administrative fines in addition to or instead of other corrective measures  
referred to in Article 58.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, depending on the  
circumstances of each individual case.  
If a data controller or a data processor, with respect to the same or linked processing of  
personal data, intentionally or negligently violates several of the provisions of this regulation,  
the total amount of the administrative fine shall not exceed the amount established for the  
most serious violation. This is stated in Article 83.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
Each supervisory authority shall ensure that the imposition of administrative fines in each  
individual case is effective, proportionate, and dissuasive. This is indicated in Article 83.1 of  
the General Data Protection Regulation.  
Article 83.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation specifies the factors to be considered in  
determining whether an administrative fine should be imposed, as well as what should affect  
the amount of the fine.  
The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) has adopted guidelines on the calculation of  
administrative fines under the General Data Protection Regulation aimed at creating a  
harmonized method and principles for calculating fines.18  

18 EDPB Guidelines 8/2020 Guidelines 04/2022 on the calculation of administrative fines under the GDPR,  
finalized on May 24, 2023.
Integrity Protection Authority  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
27(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

5.2 Same or interconnected data processing  
As noted above, IMY, in its review of Spotify's general processes and procedures for providing access under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), has found deficiencies in the information provided under Article 15.1 a–h and 15.2 of the GDPR, as well as in the description of the data in the technical log files provided by Spotify. Furthermore, Spotify has failed in its handling of access requests concerning two of the complaints that IMY has reviewed, Complaint 1 and Complaint 2.  
The violations concerning the general procedures relate, regarding the information under Article 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the GDPR, to the period from November 16, 2021, to May 16, 2022, and, regarding the description of the data in the technical log files, to the period from June 11, 2019, to May 16, 2022. The access requests covered by the individual complaints were made on May 27, 2018, and October 10, 2018, respectively. IMY assesses, among other things, against this background that the violations related to the general procedures and the violations concerning the two complaints do not constitute the same or interconnected processing as referred to in Article 83.3 of the GDPR.  
However, IMY considers that Spotify's provision of information covered by Article 15.1 and 15.2 of the GDPR, as well as the provision of the description of the data in the technical log files, are interconnected with each other. This assessment is made, among other things, against the background that the identified deficiencies in these areas concern the requirements for transparency in the information that Spotify has provided to the data subjects under Article 15 of the GDPR during a partially overlapping time period. Furthermore, the complaints are assessed to be interconnected with each other.  
IMY shall therefore determine the choice of intervention both for the identified deficiencies in Spotify's information under Article 15.1 and 15.2 of the GDPR and in the description of the data in the technical log files, as well as for the identified deficiencies concerning the two complaints.  

5.3 Deficiencies in information under Article 15.1 and 15.2 of the GDPR and in the description of the data in the technical log files  
IMY has assessed that Spotify has violated Articles 12.1, 15.1 a-d, 15.1 g, and 15.2 of the GDPR. Against the background, among other things, that the violations could have affected a large number of data subjects, that the violations have persisted for a longer period, and that the deficiencies in the information have made it difficult for data subjects to exercise their other rights under the GDPR, these are not minor violations.  
Spotify shall therefore be imposed a fine for the violations in this regard.  
IMY notes that Spotify has violated articles covered by Article 83.5 of the GDPR, which means that a fine of up to twenty million EUR or four percent of the global annual turnover from the previous financial year, whichever is higher, may be imposed.  
When determining the maximum amount for a fine to be imposed on a company, the definition of the term company used by the Court of Justice of the European Union shall be applied.
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
28(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

Application of Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (see Recital 150 in the General Data Protection Regulation). The case law of the court indicates that this includes any entity that engages in economic activity, regardless of the legal form of the entity and the manner of its financing, as well as whether the entity legally consists of several natural or legal persons.  
The Swedish Data Protection Authority (IMY) assesses that the revenue of the company that will serve as the basis for calculating the administrative fines that Spotify may be imposed is Spotify's parent company, Spotify Technology S.A. According to Spotify Technology S.A.'s annual report for the year 2022, the annual revenue for 2022 was approximately 132,000,000,000 Swedish kronor. The maximum sanction amount that can be determined in this case is four percent of this amount, approximately 5,280,000,000 Swedish kronor.  
In assessing the severity of the violations, IMY considers, in addition to what is stated above, i.e., that the violations have been able to affect a large number of data subjects, that the violations have persisted for a longer period, and that the deficiencies in the information have made it difficult for data subjects to exercise their other rights under the General Data Protection Regulation, also the following.  
The violations have posed a risk that the purpose of the right of access is thwarted, as the deficiencies in the provided information have made it difficult for data subjects to understand which of their personal data has been processed and how. Consequently, the data subjects have not had the opportunity to verify whether the processing has been lawful. Spotify's processing of personal data further encompasses a large amount of personal data about each data subject and affects many data subjects in several different countries.  
However, the data being processed does not, as far as has been revealed, constitute such special categories of personal data as specified in Article 9 of the General Data Protection Regulation. Processing of personal data that occurs within the framework of a customer relationship in the provision of a music streaming service typically does not have significant consequences for the data subjects. Furthermore, despite the extent of Spotify's processing of personal data, IMY has only received a few complaints regarding the company's handling of access requests.  
It is also significant that Spotify faces a challenge in providing extensive information about complex personal data processing in a manner that is understandable to the data subjects, which leads to difficult trade-offs in assessing how the information should be best presented. Spotify has provided certain information according to all points in Articles 15.1 and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation. Additionally, Spotify has provided information about its personal data processing on several pages of the company's website. Some information about how the personal data has been processed has also been discernible from the copy of personal data provided under Article 15.3 of the General Data Protection Regulation that Spotify has supplied to the data subjects who requested access, which IMY has largely assessed to meet the clarity requirements in Article 12.1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
The investigation in the case further indicates that Spotify, on its own initiative and before the current supervisory matter was initiated, has taken numerous measures and invested considerable effort in developing and improving processes regarding access requests that should be transparent for the data subjects. These processes and routines have since been continuously developed and improved. According to IMY, this indicates that Spotify intends to fulfill the right of access in a manner that is transparent for the data subjects. Until last year, when the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) adopted guidelines on the right of access, there was also a lack of detailed guidance on how the information should be provided and at what level of detail, among other things.  

19 Guidelines from the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) on the right of access – Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights – Right of access, (adopted on January 18, 2022, for public consultation and finally adopted on March 28, 2023).
Swedish Data Protection Authority  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
29(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

regarding the degree of individualization of the information to be provided under Articles 15.1 and 15.2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, as well as the language to be used in communication under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  
Overall, IMY assesses, in light of the circumstances presented, that the current violations are of low severity. The starting point for calculating the administrative fine should therefore be set relatively low in relation to the applicable maximum amount. To ensure a proportionate administrative fine in this particular case, there are also reasons to further adjust the starting point for the continued calculation downwards, taking into account the high turnover that forms the basis for the calculation of the administrative fine.  
In addition to the assessment of the severity of the violation, IMY shall assess whether there are any aggravating or mitigating circumstances that may affect the size of the administrative fine. The circumstances that have already been considered in the assessment of the severity of the violation cannot be taken into account again at this stage of the assessment.  
IMY assesses that there are no additional aggravating circumstances affecting the size of the administrative fine. As a mitigating circumstance, IMY places particular emphasis on the possibility for the data subjects to contact Spotify's customer service through several different channels to obtain further individualized information. Furthermore, Spotify informed in June 2022 that the company has made updates to the information under Article 15, among other things, to ensure that the data subjects understand the specific personal data processing applicable to their unique use of the Spotify service. Regarding the shortcomings concerning Spotify's choice of language for the description of the data in the technical log files, it is also significant that data subjects have had the opportunity to approach Spotify to have the description translated or explained in their local language, and that Spotify has provided clear information about this opportunity in the "Read Me First" file that was provided when the data was made available to the data subject.  
In light of the severity of the violations, aggravating and mitigating circumstances, and the high turnover in relation to the identified violations, IMY determines the administrative fine for Spotify to be 58,000,000 kronor. IMY has assessed that this amount, which corresponds to approximately 1 percent of the maximum possible fine that can be established in the case, is effective, proportionate, and deterrent in the current case.  
5.4 Violations concerning complaints 1 and 2  
IMY has found that Spotify has failed in its obligations in relation to the complainants in complaints 1 and 2. However, IMY can note that the complainants in both cases have received access to some of their personal data in a timely manner. Furthermore, when the complainant in complaint 1 contacted them, Spotify was helpful in providing additional information and answering questions. Regarding complaint 2, Spotify was not made aware that the complainant felt that his request for access had not been fully met. The complainant did not approach Spotify and express dissatisfaction with the company's handling of his request for access, which is why Spotify has had difficulties in remedying the shortcoming.  
IMY notes that the current violations did not involve sensitive personal data. Spotify has also taken measures, albeit insufficient, to meet the complainants' requests. Even though the complainants' right to access is not...
Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection  
Diary Number: DI-2019-6696  
30(30)  
Date: 2023-06-12  

The deficiencies that have existed, given that the requests have been fully met, are of a less serious nature than if the requests had been left unanswered.  
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) finds, upon a comprehensive assessment, that regarding the violations in complaints 1 and 2, these are minor violations and therefore there is reason to refrain from imposing a sanction fee on Spotify for the established violations in this regard. Instead, Spotify shall be issued a reprimand pursuant to Article 58.2 b of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).  
Spotify has stated that the company is happy to cooperate directly with the complainants to ensure that it has provided all the data and information that the complainants are seeking and that it has answered their questions.  
According to information that has emerged in the case, the complainant in complaint 1 contacted Spotify again in July 2020 and subsequently gained access in accordance with Article 15 of the GDPR. The complainant received all of their personal data, including an explanatory document regarding the personal data that was processed, within 21 days. The personal data provided at that time was unencrypted. Since the complainant's request for access has been fulfilled, there is no reason to order Spotify to provide access again in accordance with Article 15.  
Regarding complaint 2, no information has emerged indicating that the complainant has gained access to more personal data or additional information following the response to the access request in October 2018. Therefore, Spotify shall, based on Article 58.2 c of the GDPR, be ordered to comply with the complainant's request for access in accordance with Article 15 of the GDPR by providing the complainant access to all personal data that Spotify processes about them by supplying a copy of the personal data in accordance with Article 15.3 of the GDPR, as well as information in accordance with Articles 15.1 a-h and 15.2 of the GDPR. In this regard, Spotify must consider the exceptions to the right of access in Article 15.4 of the GDPR and Chapter 5 of the Data Protection Act that may be relevant. IMY assesses that access should be granted within one month from the date this decision becomes final.  
_____________________________  
This decision has been made by the Director General Lena Lindgren Schelin after presentation by the lawyers Karin Ekström and Evelin Palmér. In the final handling, the Chief Legal Officer David Törngren and the Unit Manager Catharina Fernquist have also participated.  

Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2023-06-12   (This is an electronic signature)  

Appendix  
Appendix 1 – Complainant's identification details (complaint 2)  
Appendix 2 – Spotify's information according to Article 15 of the GDPR, from November 16 to May 16, 2022  
Appendix 3 – Information on payment of sanction fee