
DetailHomeNewsDetail


09.09.2022
Activity report on data protection - protection of freedom in times of the pandemic
                
                        
                                                               ;
                                ©
                                LfDI RLPThe state representative for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann handed over his 30th activity report on data protection 2021 to the President of the State Parliament Hendrik Hering on September 8th, 2022. The reporting period (from January 1st to December 31st, 2021) was again dominated by the pandemic, which had an impact on work the authority of the LfDI had. Their work was shaped by the considerable legal and practical challenges of the pandemic. The relationship between employees and employers was one of the areas in which a wide range of data protection issues arose in connection with the obligation to test, the obligation to provide evidence and the general employment conditions. In cooperation with the state government, a number of problems could be clarified before specific regulations for dealing with the pandemic situation came into force. The day-to-day work of the authorities was shaped by the once again high number of entries. The number of complaints has leveled off at a very high level, while the number of reported data breaches continues to rise sharply. Prof. Kugelmann explains: "The effects of the pandemic are not least a driver of further digitization. This has once again shown that data protection can make a constructive contribution to modern digitization that conforms to fundamental rights, especially in times of crisis. It is clear," Kugelmann continues, "that data protection requires a certain amount of effort. However, this effort is bearing fruit for the population's trust in the companies and administrations that process data. In a digital society, trust in lawful and appropriate data processing is an essential basis for trust in government action as a whole. It is a central task for me and my authority to make a contribution to the framework conditions for the lasting maintenance of this trust.” The individual questions are explained in more detail in the factual chapters of the activity report. This is available at https://www.datenschutz.rlp.de/fileadmin/lfdi/Taetigkeitsreports/ds_tb30.pdf
return




