1/7

 File No.: EXP202210476

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On March 1, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to start a sanctioning procedure against A.A.A. (onwards,
the claimed party), through the Transcribed Agreement:

<<

File No.: EXP202210476

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: B.B.B. (*hereinafter, the claiming party) dated September 28,
2022 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The re-
outcry is directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party).
The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

"(...) who is a neighbor of a house adjacent to the house of the claimed party and
that he has installed a video surveillance camera on the facade of his home that,
Due to its location and orientation, it is likely to capture images of both the home
of the claimant, such as the public road that runs next to the home of the
claimed party”—folio no. 1--.

Together with the notification, images of the presence of the camera that could
affect you (Annex I).

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the party claimed on fe-
date 10/06/22, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the plan
within one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements.
cough in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

cases (hereinafter, LPACAP), has not been collected by the claimant, nor has he given an explanation.
any provision to that effect in relation to the facts described.

THIRD: On December 14, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each authori-
quality of control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulations
comments dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sisidario, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim presented in this Agency.
reporting the presence of a video-surveillance system that it considers affects
their personal privacy and even in the public sphere without just cause.

The content of article 5.1 letter c) of the GDPR is considered affected, which provides: "The
personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are processed ("data minimization");

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
more installed comply with current legislation, certifying that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and data controller, where appropriate
of a personal nature.

The installed cameras must be oriented towards the particular property,
avoiding intimidation with this type of device from nearby homes and/or
public space.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

In no case will the cameras be able to record images of the public highway, nor homes
adjoining (with the exception of access to the property), since it would be the responsibility of the
State Security Forces and Bodies.

The cameras installed must be suitable for the intended purpose, that is,
protection of the main access to the housing area, avoiding affectation of privacy
of the neighbors or of the nearby houses, which are affected by the gravity
bation of the images.

II

In accordance with the initial evidence available to the present mo-
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what is
As a result of the instruction, it is considered that the claimed party has a system of
video surveillance that could affect the public and/or private sphere of a third party without cause
justified.

The images provided confirm the presence of a dome-type camera
installed on the exterior façade, being able to be viewed with the same space
private and/or public space adjacent to it.

The known facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed, typified in article 5.1 c) GDPR, previously cited.

Article 72 paragraph 1 letter a) establishes a limitation period of three years "the
infractions that suppose a substantial infringement of the articles mentioned in
that and, in particular, the following:

“a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees established

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

IV.

The art. 83.5 GDPR provides the following: "Violations of the following provisions
These will be penalized, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
000 000 EUR maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount
to a maximum of 4% of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
previous year, opting for the one with the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

When motivating the sanction, it is taken into account that it is an individual, who does not
has initially responded to the transfers made by this Agency, in the case of
a dome-type camera with a bad orientation towards the outside area according to documents
contribution, which denotes at least a negligent conduct, proposing a
initial penalty of 300 euros, a penalty located on the lower scale for this type of
behaviors based on the criteria of this body.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

V

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the
which each control authority may "order the controller or processor
that the processing operations comply with the provisions of this
Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period.
cified…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of
Administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is noted that not attending to the possible order to adopt measures imposed by
this body in the sanctioning resolution may be considered as an infraction
administrative action in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, classified as an infringement in
its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a subsequent proceeding.
sanctioning administrative procedure.

The claimed party must provide a photograph (eg date and time) that
accredit what is captured with it, without prejudice to the allegations that in law
deems appropriate to carry out in relation to the facts described, which must be
descriptions of the situation for its understanding by this Agency.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection tab,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1,
for the alleged infringement of article 5.1 c) GDPR, typified in article 83.5 a)
GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT as instructor R.R.R. and, as secretary, to S.S.S., indicating
stating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions
referred to in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATING into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
petition filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the documents
ments obtained and generated by the General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection in
the actions prior to the start of this disciplinary procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
tube, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be €300, without prejudice to what results from the
truction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, granting it a
hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and present
the tests it deems appropriate. In your pleadings you must provide

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the heading of this document.
mint.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the pre-
set start agreement; which will entail a 20% reduction in blood
tion that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 240 euros, resolving the procedure
with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which supposes
will give a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction, the
tion would be established at 240 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.
without prejudice to the imposition of the corresponding measures.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
set at 180 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or waiver of any action or appeal through administrative
treatment against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
previously indicated €800 or €600, you must make it effective by depositing it in
the account number IBAN: ES00-0000-0000-0000-0000-0000 opened in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating
in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading
compliance with this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it is entitled.

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the Sub-directorate General of Ins-
expectation to continue with the procedure in accordance with the amount entered.
gives.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the date of
date of the initiation agreement or, where applicable, of the draft initiation agreement. Elapsed-
After this period, its expiration will take place and, consequently, the file of actions;
in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPA-
CAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-121222

>>

SECOND: On March 28, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the penalty in the amount of 180 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202210476, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-040822

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

