Opinion 26/2020 on the  draft decision of  the  competent
supervisory authority of Denmark regarding the approval of
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification  body
pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR)

Adopted on 07 December 2020

Adopted

1

Table of contents

1
2

3
4

Summary of the Facts.....................................................................................................................4
Assessment.....................................................................................................................................4
2.1
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ...............................4
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines)
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ...........5
2.2.1
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION (Section 4 of the draft accreditation
requirements).................................................................................................................................6
2.2.2
RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS (Section 6 of the draft accreditation requirements) .........7
2.2.3
Process  requirements,  Article  43  (2)(c),  (d)  of  the  GDPR  (Section  7  of  the  draft
accreditation requirements) ..........................................................................................................7
Conclusions / Recommendations...................................................................................................8
Final Remarks .................................................................................................................................8

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”),

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body.
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote
consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to draft
their  requirements  for  accreditation  following  the  structure  set  out  in  the  Annex  to  the  EDPB
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies).

(2)  With  reference to  Article 43 GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall adopt
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements.

(3) While requirements for accreditation are subject to the consistency mechanism, this does not
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise
of accredited certification bodies.

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General
Data Protection Regulation (2016/679)” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), and “Guidelines 1/2018 on
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation
2016/679” will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism.

(5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory
authority, the supervisory authority should establish accreditation requirements including, but not

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

3

Adopted

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which
will contribute to consistency.2

(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon
decision of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the
complexity of the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

The Danish Supervisory  Authority (hereinafter  “DK SA”) has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 12 October 2020.
The Danish national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to
certify using GDPR certification criteria. This means that the NAB will use ISO 17065 and the additional
requirements set up by the DK SA, once they are approved by the DK SA, following an opinion from
the Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies.

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision
The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and
powers  of  the  competent  SA. In  this  specific  case,  the  Board  notes  that the DK SA,  although
empowered  together  with  the  Danish  Accreditation  Fund (DANAK) to  grant  accreditation  to
certification bodes, has decided to resort to DANAK, i.e. its national accreditation body (NAB), for the
issuance  of accreditation,  having  put  together  additional  requirements  in  accordance  with  the
Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when issuing accreditation.

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en

Available 

par. 

39. 

at:

Adopted

4

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

This assessment of DK SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their Annex 1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s
Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the
accreditation of certification bodies.

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as
required by the SA’s context.

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements.
However,  the Board considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and
review as required.

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights,
and therefore it will not make reference to the text of the related document in this Opinion. As a
result, the Board decided to, where relevant, point towards specific sections of the ISO Standard,
without, however, reproducing the text.

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the DK
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and
not asking the DK SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the DK SA, which are outside the scope of article
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.
2.2 Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be
assessed consistently:
a. addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering any

deviation from the Annex.

b.

c.

independence of the certification body

conflicts of interests of the certification body

d. expertise of the certification body

e. appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied by

the certification body

f.

g.

procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and

transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification.

9.

Taking into account that:

Adopted

5

a. Article 43 (2) GDPR provides a list of accreditation areas that a certification body need to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the
accreditation of certification bodies itself;

d. Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR provides that the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant
to Article 43(3);

e.

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority
must also be applied;

f. Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body;

the Board is of the opinion that:

2.2.1 GENERAL  REQUIREMENTS  FOR  ACCREDITATION (Section  4  of  the  draft

accreditation requirements)

10. With regard to paragraph 3 in section 4.1.1 “Legal responsibility” of the DK SA’s draft accreditation
requirements,  the  Board is  of  the  opinion  that the  certification  body  should  confirm  to  the
accreditation body not only that fact that they are not subject of any investigation or regulatory action
by the DK DPA, but also that they were not subject of such investigation/regulatory action in the past.
Therefore, the Board encourages the DK SA to clarify this matter.

11. With respect to the same section, last paragraph, the Board encourages DK SA to make clear that
further requirements and procedures aimed at checking certification bodies GDPR compliance prior
to accreditation can be added.

12.

The Board underlines the importance of full transparency by the certification body to the DK DPA with
respect to the certification procedure. In this context, as regards section 4.1.2 certification agreement,
paragraph 2, the  Board  encourages  DK SA  to specify what  is  meant  by  the  term  “otherwise”,  in
particular whether confidentiality imposed by the law is covered by this provision.

13. With respect to the section 4.2 “Management of impartiality”, the Board encourages DK SA to provide
more examples of situations where certification body has no relevant connection with the customer

Adopted

6

it assesses. In particular, requirements for accreditation of a certification body submitted by German
SA and Austrian SA might be of help in this regard3.

2.2.2 RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS (Section 6 of the draft accreditation requirements)

14.

15.

The Board takes good note of the fact that DK SA’s accreditation requirements allows for outsourcing
of certain activities. With respect to access to someone with relevant expertise, and an appropriate
professional/degree  level  qualification (“Certification  body  personnel”, section  6.1.6),  the  Board
recommends to the DK SA to clearly underline that the certification body will retain the responsibility
for the decision-making, even when it uses external experts4. The Board highlights that external actors
should not be involved in decision making process and that this needs to be clearly underlined in the
requirements.

As regards the same section and the reference to personnel responsible for certification decisions, the
Board encourages DK SA to align the wording of the requirements with the wording of the Guidelines,
by  adding  a  reference  to  data  protection  laws,  i.e. “significant  professional  experience  in  data
protection law, including identifying and implementing data protection measures”.

2.2.3 Process  requirements,  Article  43  (2)(c), (d) of  the  GDPR (Section  7  of  the  draft

accreditation requirements)

16. With respect to section 7.2 “Application” and the requirement to notify DK DPA about an application
received, the Board encourages DK SA to specify in the last sentence in which form the notification
should be submitted by the certification body.

17.

18.

As regards section 7.4 “Evaluation”, third paragraph, the Board recommends to DK SA to add not only
the respective requirements of ISO 17065 but also the additional ones of the Danish DPA, which must
be fulfilled by the sub-contractor, as well as to underline that sub-contracting does not exempt the
certification body from its responsibilities.

Regarding section 7.6 “Certification decision”, the Board underlines that the certification body should
in detail set out procedures how its independence and responsibility are ensured. For this reasons the
Board recommends to DK SA to add at the beginning of point 7.6 “Certification decision” the following
sentence: “In addition to point 7.6.1 of ISO/IEC 17065/2012, the certification body should be required

3 For possible examples see Opinion 15/2020 on the draft decision of the competent supervisory authorities of
Germany regarding the approval of the requirements for accreditation of a certification body pursuant to Article
43.3  (GDPR) - section  19  or Opinion  9/2019  on  the  Austrian  data  protection  supervisory  authority  draft
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR - section 20.

4 The EDPB developed this requirement in Opinion 16/2020 on the draft decision of the competent supervisory
authority of the Czech Republic regarding the approval of the requirements for accreditation of a certification
body pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) - see section 24; and Opinion 5/2020 on the draft decision of the competent
supervisory  authority  of  Luxembourg  regarding  the  approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a
certification body pursuant to Article 43.3 GDPR - see section 14.

Adopted

7

to set out in detail in its procedures how its independence and responsibility with regard to individual
certification decisions are ensured”.

19.

The Board underlines the importance of providing information about reasons for granting or revoking
certification. For this reason, the Board recommends DK SA to add in section 7.8 “Directory of certified
products”, the reference to the duty for the certification body to inform about granting/revoking
requested certification including clarification in which form such information should be provided.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

20.

The draft accreditation requirements of the DK Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made:

21.

Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the DK SA:

1)

in section  6.1.6 “Certification  body  personnel”, clearly  underline  that  the  certification
body will retain the responsibility for the decision-making, even when it uses external
experts;

22.

Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the DK SA:

1)

2)

3)

in section 7.4 “Evaluation”, third paragraph, add not only the respective requirements of
ISO 17065 but also the additional ones of the Danish DPA, which must be fulfilled by the
sub-contractor,  as  well  as  underline  that  sub-contracting  does  not  exempt  the
certification body from its responsibilities;
in section 7.6 “Certification decision” add the following sentence: “In addition to point
7.6.1 of ISO/IEC 17065/2012, the certification body should be required to set out in detail
in  its  procedures  how  its  independence  and  responsibility  with  regard  to individual
certification decisions are ensured”;
in section 7.8  “Directory  of  certified  products”, add  a  reference  to  the  duty  for  the
certification  body  to  inform  about  granting/revoking  requested  certification  including
clarification in which form such information should be provided.

4 FINAL REMARKS

23.

24.

This opinion is addressed to the Danish Supervisory Authority and will be made public pursuant to
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the DK SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within
the same period, it shall provide the amended draft list or where it does not intend to follow the
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this
opinion, in whole or in part.

25.

The DK SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

8

Adopted

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

9

