 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidelines 1/2020 on processing personal data in the 

context of connected vehicles and mobility related 

applications 

 

Version 1.0 

 

Adopted on 28 January 2020 

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

1 

 

Table of contents 

1 

INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................................ 3 

1.1 

1.2 

1.3 

1.4 

1.5 

Related works ........................................................................................................................... 4 

Applicable law .......................................................................................................................... 5 

Scope ........................................................................................................................................ 6 

Definitions ................................................................................................................................ 9 

Privacy and data protection risks ........................................................................................... 10 

2 

GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS..................................................................................................... 12 

2.1 

2.2 

2.3 

2.4 

2.5 

2.6 

2.7 

2.8 

2.9 

Categories of data .................................................................................................................. 12 

Purposes ................................................................................................................................. 14 

Relevance and data minimisation .......................................................................................... 14 

Data protection by design and by default ............................................................................. 14 

Information ............................................................................................................................ 17 

Rights of the data subject ...................................................................................................... 19 

Security and confidentiality ................................................................................................... 19 

Transmitting personal data to third parties ........................................................................... 20 

Transfer of personal data outside the EU/EEA ...................................................................... 20 

2.10  Use of in-vehicle Wi-Fi technologies ...................................................................................... 21 

3 

CASE STUDIES ................................................................................................................................. 21 

3.1 

3.2 

3.3 

3.4 

3.5 

 

 

 
 

Provision of a service by a third party.................................................................................... 21 

eCall ........................................................................................................................................ 25 

Accidentology studies ............................................................................................................ 27 

Tackle auto theft .................................................................................................................... 29 

Personal information stored on rental cars’ dashboard ........................................................ 30 

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

2 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70 (1) (e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the  Council  of  27  April  2016  on  the  protection  of  natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter 
“GDPR”), 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES 

 

1 

INTRODUCTION 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Symbol of the 20th century economy, the automobile is one of the mass consumer products that has 
impacted  society  as  a  whole.  Commonly  associated  with  the  notion  of  freedom,  cars  are  often 
considered as more than just a mean of transportation. Indeed, they represent a private area in which 
people can enjoy a form of autonomy of decision, without encountering any external interferences. 
Today, as connected vehicles move into the mainstream, such a vision no longer corresponds to the 
reality. In-vehicle connectivity is rapidly expanding from luxury models and premium brands to high-
volume  midmarket  models,  and  vehicles  are  becoming  massive  data  hubs.  Not  only  vehicles,  but 
drivers and passengers are also becoming more and more connected. As a matter of fact, many models 
launched over the past few years on the market integrate sensors and connected onboard equipment, 
which may collect and record, among other things, the engine performance, the driving habits, the 
locations visited, and potentially even the driver’s eye movements, his or her pulse, or other biometric 
data for authentication or identification purposes.2  

Such data processing is taking place in a complex ecosystem, which is not limited to the traditional 
players of the automotive industry, but is also shaped by the emergence of new players belonging to 
the digital economy. These new players may offer infotainment services such as online music, road 
condition and traffic information, or provide driving assistance systems and services, such as autopilot 
software,  vehicle  condition  updates,  usage-based  insurance  or  dynamic  mapping.  Moreover,  since 
vehicles  are  connected  via  electronic  communication  networks,  road  infrastructure  managers  and 
telecommunications operators involved in this process also play an important role with respect to the 
potential processing operations applied to the drivers’ and passengers’ personal data.  

In  addition,  connected  vehicles  are  generating  increasing  amounts  of  data,  most  of  which  can  be 
considered personal data since they will relate to drivers or passengers. Even if the data collected by a 
connected car are not directly linked to a name, but to technical aspects and features of the vehicle, it 
will concern the driver or the passengers of the car. As an illustration, data relating to the driving style 

 

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 Infographic “Data and the connected car” by the Future of Privacy Forum; https://fpf.org/wp-
content/uploads/2017/06/2017_0627-FPF-Connected-Car-Infographic-Version-1.0.pdf    

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

3 

 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

or  the  distance  covered,  data  relating  to  the  wear  and  tear  on  vehicle  parts  or  data  collected  by 
cameras may concern driver behavior as well as information about other people who could be inside 
or outside the vehicle.  

In 2016, the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA) ran a campaign across Europe called “My 
Car My Data” to get a sentiment on what Europeans think about connected cars.3 While it showed the 
high interest of drivers for connectivity, it also highlighted the vigilance that must be exercised with 
regard  to  the  use  of  the  data  produced  by  vehicles  as  well  as  the  importance  of  complying  with 
personal data protection legislation. Thus, the challenge is, for each stakeholder, to incorporate the 
“protection of personal data” dimension from the product design phase, and to ensure that car users 
enjoy transparency and control in relation to their data. Such an approach helps to strengthen user 
confidence, and thus the long-term development of those technologies. 

1.1  Related works 
Connected vehicles have become a substantial subject for regulators over the last decade, with a major 
increase  in  the  last  couple  of  years.  Various  works  have  thus  been  published  at  the  national  and 
international levels concerning the security and privacy of connected vehicles. Those regulations and 
initiatives  aim  at  complementing  the  existing  data  protection  and  privacy  frameworks  with  sector 
specific rules or providing guidance to professionals. 

1.1.1  European-level and international initiatives 
From 31 March 2018 onward, a 112-based eCall in-vehicle system is mandatory on all new types of M1 
and N1 vehicles (passenger cars and light duty vehicles).4,5 In 2006, the Article 29 Working Party had 
already adopted a working document on data protection and privacy implications in eCall initiative. 6 
In addition, as previously discussed, the Article 29 Working Party also adopted an opinion in October 
2017  regarding  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the  context  of  Cooperative  Intelligent  Transport 
Systems (C-ITS). 

In January 2017, the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA) published 
a study focused on cyber security and resilience of smart cars listing the sensitive assets as well as the 
corresponding  threats,  risks,  mitigation  factors  and  possible  security  measures  to  implement.7  In 
September 2017, the International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners (ICDPPC) 
adopted a resolution on connected vehicles.8 Finally, in April 2018, the International Working Group 
on  Data  Protection  in  Telecommunications  (IWGDPT),  also  adopted  a  working  paper  on  connected 
vehicles.9  

 

3 Campaign “My Car My Data”; http://www.mycarmydata.eu/  
4 The interoperable EU-wide eCall; https://ec.europa.eu/transport/themes/its/road/action_plan/ecall_en  
5 Decision No 585/2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the deployment 
of the interoperable EU-wide eCall service Text with EEA relevance; https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32014D0585  
6 Working document on data protection and privacy implications in eCall initiative;  
http://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2006/wp125_en.pdf  
7 Cyber security and resilience of smart cars; https://www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/cyber-security-and-
resilience-of-smart-cars   
8 Resolution on data protection in automated and connected vehicles; 
https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/resolution-on-data-protection-in-automated-and-connected-
vehicles_en_1.pdf  
9 Working paper on connected vehicles; https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/infothek-und-
service/veroeffentlichungen/working-paper/  

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

4 

 

8. 

1.1.2  National initiatives of European Data Protection Board (EDPB) members 
In January 2016, the Conference of the German Federal and State Data Protection Authorities and the 
German  Association  of  the  Automotive  Industry  (VDA)  published  a  common  declaration  on  the 
principles of data protection in connected and not-connected vehicles.10 In August 2017, the UK Centre 
for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles (CCAV) released a guide stating principles of cyber security 
for  connected  and  automated  vehicles  in  order  to  raise  awareness  on  the  matter  within  the 
automotive sector.11 In October 2017, the French data protection authority, the Commission Nationale 
de l'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL), released a compliance package for connected cars in order to 
provide  assistance  to  stakeholders  on  how  to  integrate  data  protection  by  design  and  by  default, 
enabling data subjects to have effective control over their data.12 

9. 

1.2  Applicable law 
The relevant EU legal framework is the General data protection regulation (2016/679). It applies in any 
case where data processing in the context of connected vehicles involves processing personal data of 
individuals.  

10.  Additionally to the GDPR,  the “ePrivacy” directive (2002/58/EC, as revised by 2009/136/EC),  sets a 
specific  standard  for  all  actors  that  wish  to  store  or  access  information  stored  in  the  terminal 
equipment of a subscriber or user in the European Economic Area (EEA).  

11. 

Indeed, if most of the “ePrivacy” directive provisions (art. 6, art. 9, etc.) only applies to providers of 
publicly available electronic communication services and providers of public communication networks, 
art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive is a general provision. It does not only apply to electronic communication 
services but also to every entity that places on or reads information from a terminal equipment without 
regard to the nature of the data being stored or accessed.  

12.  Regarding the notion of “terminal equipment”, the definition is given by directive 2008/63/CE. Art. 1 
(a) define the terminal equipment as an “equipment directly or indirectly connected to the interface of 
a public telecommunications network to send, process or receive information; in either case (direct or 
indirect), the connection may be made by wire, optical fibre or electromagnetically; a connection is 
indirect if equipment is placed between the terminal and the interface of the network; (b) satellite earth 
station equipment”.  

13.  As a result, the connected vehicle and every device connected to it shall be considered as a “terminal 
equipment” (just like a computer, a smartphone or a smart TV) and provisions of art. 5(3) ePrivacy 
directive must apply where relevant. 

14.  As  recently  outlined  by  the  EDPB  in  its  opinion  5/2019  on  the  interplay  between  the  “ePrivacy” 
directive and the GDPR,13 art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive provides that, as a rule, prior consent is required 
for the storing of information, or the gaining of access to information already stored, in the terminal 
equipment of a subscriber or user. To the extent that the information stored in the end-user’s device 

 

10 Data protection aspects of using connected and non-connected vehicles; 
https://www.lda.bayern.de/media/dsk_joint_statement_vda.pdf  
11 Principles of cyber security for connected and automated vehicles; 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/principles-of-cyber-security-for-connected-and-automated-
vehicles  
12 Compliance package for a responsible use of data in connected cars; https://www.cnil.fr/en/connected-
vehicles-compliance-package-responsible-use-data  
13 European Data Protection Board, Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between the ePrivacy Directive and the 
GDPR, in particular regarding the competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities, adopted on 12 
March 2019, paragraph 40. 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

5 

 

constitutes  personal  data,  art.  5(3)  ePrivacy  directive  shall  take  precedence  over  art.  6  GDPR  with 
regards to the activity of storing or gaining access to this information.14 Any processing operations of 
personal data following the aforementioned processing operations, including processing personal data 
obtained  by  accessing  information  in  the  terminal  equipment,  must  additionally  have  a  legal  basis 
under art. 6 GDPR in order to be lawful.15  

15. 

Since the controller will have to inform the data subject about all the purposes of the processing  – 
including  any  processing  following  the  aforementioned  operations  –  when  seeking  consent  for  the 
storing or gaining of access to information pursuant to  art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive, the consent will 
normally also cover such processing operations. Consent will likely constitute the legal basis both for 
the storing and gaining of access to information already stored and the processing of personal data 
following the aforementioned processing operations. Indeed, when assessing compliance with art. 6 
GDPR, one should take into account that the processing as a whole involves specific activities for which 
the EU legislature has sought to provide additional protection.16 Moreover, controllers must take into 
account the impact on data subjects’ rights when identifying the appropriate lawful basis in order to 
respect  the  principle  of  fairness.17  The  bottom  line  is  that  art.  6  GDPR  cannot  be  relied  upon  by 
controllers in order to lower the additional protection provided by art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive.  

16. 

The EDPB recalls that the notion of consent in the ePrivacy directive remains the notion of consent in 
the GDPR and must meet all the requirements of the consent as provided by art. 4(11) and 7 GDPR.  

17.  However, if consent is the principle, art. 5(3) ePrivacy directive allows the storing of information or the 
gaining of access to information that is already stored in the terminal equipment to be exempted from 
the requirement of informed consent, if it satisfy one of the following criteria:  

•  Exemption 1: for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication 

over an electronic communications network ; 

•  Exemption 2: when it is strictly necessary in order for the provider of an information 

society service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user to provide the service. 
 

18. 

In  such  cases,  the  processing  of  personal  data  including  personal  data  obtained  by  accessing 
information in the terminal equipment is based on one of the legal basis as provided by art. 6 GDPR.  

19. 

1.3  Scope 
The scope of this  document focuses in particular on the personal data processing in relation to the 
non-professional use of connected vehicles by data subjects: e.g., drivers, passengers, vehicle owners, 
renters,  etc.  More  specifically,  it  deals  with  the  personal  data  (i)  processed  inside  the  vehicle,  (ii) 
exchanged between the vehicle and personal devices connected to it (e.g., the user’s smartphone) or 
(iii)  collected  within  the  vehicle  and  exported  to  external  entities  (e.g.,  vehicle  manufacturers, 
infrastructure managers, insurance companies, car repairers) for further processing.  

20. 

The connected vehicle definition has to be understood as a broad concept in this document. It can be 
defined as a vehicle equipped with many electronic control units (ECU) that are linked together via an 

 

14 Ibid, paragraph 40. 
15 Ibid, paragraph 41. 
16 Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between the ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR, in particular regarding the 
competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities, paragraph 41. 
17 European Data Protection Board, Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) 
GDPR in the context of the provision of online services to data subjects, Version 2.0, 8 October 2019, paragraph 
1. 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

6 

 

in-vehicle network as well as connectivity facilities allowing it to share information with other devices 
both inside and outside the vehicle. As such, data can be exchanged between the vehicle and personal 
devices connected to it, for instance allowing the mirroring of mobile applications to the car’s in-dash 
information  and  entertainment  unit.  Also,  the  development  of  standalone  mobile  applications, 
meaning independent of the vehicle (for example, relying on the sole use of the smart phone) to assist 
drivers is included in the scope of this  document since they contribute to the vehicle’s connectivity 
capacities even though they may not effectively rely on the transmission of data with the vehicle per 
se. Applications for connected vehicles are multiple and diverse and can include18: 

21.  Mobility  management:  functions  that  allow  drivers  to  reach  a  destination  quickly,  and  in  a  cost-
efficient  manner,  by  providing  timely  information  about  GPS  navigation,  potentially  dangerous 
environmental conditions (e.g., icy roads), traffic congestion or road construction work, parking lot or 
garage assistance, optimised fuel consumption or road pricing.  

22.  Vehicle  management:  functions  that  are  supposed  to  aid  drivers  in  reducing  operating  costs  and 
improving ease of use, such as notification of vehicle condition and service reminders, transfer of usage 
data  (e.g.,  for  vehicle  repair  services),  customised  “Pay  As/How  You  Drive”  insurances,  remote 
operations (e.g., heating system) or profile configurations (e.g., seat position). 

23.  Road safety: functions that warn the driver of external hazards and internal responses, such as collision 
protection, hazard warnings, lane  departure warnings, driver drowsiness detection, emergency call 
(eCall) or crash investigation “black-boxes” (event data recorder). 

24. 

Entertainment: functions providing information to and involving the entertainment of the driver and 
passengers, such as smart phone interfaces (hands free phone calls, voice generated text messages), 
WLAN hot spots, music, video, Internet, social media, mobile office or “smart home” services. 

25.  Driver  assistance:  functions  involving  partially  or  fully  automated  driving,  such  as  operational 

assistance or autopilot in heavy traffic, in parking, or on highways, 

26.  Well-being:  functions  monitoring  the  driver’s  comfort,  ability  and  fitness  to  drive  such  as  fatigue 

detection or medical assistance. 

27.  Hence, vehicles can be natively connected or not and personal data can be collected through several 
means, including: (i) vehicle sensors, (ii) telematics boxes or (ii) mobile applications (e.g. accessed from 
a device belonging to a driver). In order to fall within the scope of this document, mobile applications 
need to be related to the environment of driving. For example, GPS navigation applications are indeed 
within the scope, while applications that suggest places of interest (restaurants, historic monument, 
etc.) to the user will not be covered by this document.   

28.  Much of the data that is generated by a connected vehicle relate to a natural person that is identified 
or identifiable and thus constitute personal data. For instance, data include directly identifiable data 
(e.g.,  the  driver’s  complete  identity),  as  well  as  indirectly  identifiable  data  such  as  the  details  of 
journeys made, the vehicle usage data (e.g., data relating to driving style or the distance covered), or 
the vehicle’s technical data (e.g., data relating to the wear and tear on vehicle parts), which, by cross-
referencing with other files and especially the vehicle identification number (VIN), can be related to a 
natural  person.  Personal  data  in  connected  vehicles  can  also  include  metadata,  such  as  vehicle 

18 PwC Strategy 2014. “In the fast lane. The bright future of connected cars”; 
https://www.strategyand.pwc.com/media/file/Strategyand_In-the-Fast-Lane.pdf  

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

7 

 

maintenance status. In other words, any data that can be associated with a natural person therefore 
fall into the scope of this document. 

29. 

The connected vehicle ecosystem covers a wide spectrum of stakeholders. More precisely, it includes 
traditional actors of the automotive industry as well as emerging players from the digital industry.  

30.  Hence, these guidelines are directed towards vehicle manufacturers, equipment manufacturers and 
automotive suppliers, car repairers, automobile dealerships, vehicle service providers, rental and car 
sharing  companies,  fleet  managers,  motor 
insurance  companies,  entertainment  providers, 
telecommunication operators, road infrastructure managers and public authorities as well as drivers, 
owners, renters and passengers. This is a non-exhaustive list. 

31. 

1.3.1  Out of scope of this document 
Employers providing company cars to members of their staff might want to monitor their employee’s 
actions (e.g., in order to ensure the safety of the employee, goods or vehicles, to allocate resources, 
to track and bill a service or to check working time). Data processing carried out by employers in this 
context raises specific considerations to the employment context, which might be regulated by labour 
laws at the national level that cannot be detailed in these guidelines.  

32.  Connected vehicles being radio-enabled systems, they are subject to passive tracking such as WiFi or 
Bluetooth tracking. In that sense they do not differ from other connected devices and fall in the scope 
of  the  ePrivacy  directive  which  is  currently  being  revised.  This  therefore  excludes  also  large-scale 
tracking of WiFi equipped vehicles19 by a dense network of bystanders who use common smartphone 
location services. These routinely report all visible WiFi networks to central servers. Since built-in WiFi 
can  be  considered  a  secondary  vehicle  identifier,20  this  risks  a  systematic  ongoing  collection  of 
complete vehicle movement profiles in a third country.  

33. 

34. 

Increasingly vehicles are equipped with image recording devices (e.g., car parking camera systems or 
dashcams). Since this deals with the issue of filming public places, which requires an assessment of the 
relevant legislative framework which is specific to each Member State, this data processing is out of 
scope. 

The processing of data enabling Cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems (C-ITS) – as defined in the 
directive of the European Union 2010/40/EU21 has been dealt with in a specific opinion by the Article 
29  Working  Party22.  Through  this  opinion,  the  WP29  focused  on  specific  use  cases  built  for  initial 
deployment and committed to assess at a later stage the new issues that will be undoubtedly raised 
when higher level of automation will be implemented. Since the data protection implications in the 
context of C-ITS are very specific (unprecedented amounts of location data, continuous broadcasting 
of personal data, exchange of data between vehicles and other road infrastructural facilities, etc.) and 

 

19 See https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/artikel/1269-Location-Services-can-Systematically-Track-Vehicles-
with-WiFi-Access-Points-at-Large-Scale.html for details 
20 Markus Ullmann, Tobias Franz, and Gerd Nolden, Vehicle Identiﬁcation Based on Secondary Vehicle 
Identiﬁer -- Analysis, and Measurements, in Proceedings, VEHICULAR 2017, The Sixth International 
Conference on Advances in Vehicular Systems, Technologies and Applications,  Nice, France, July 23 to 27, 
2017, pages 32 to 37. 
21 Directive on the framework for the deployment of Intelligent Transport Systems in the field of road transport 
and for interfaces with other modes of transport; https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32010L0040  

22 WP29 - Opinion 03/2017 on Processing personal data in the context of Cooperative Intelligent Transport 
Systems (C-ITS); http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=610171   

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

8 

 

that it is still being discussed at the European level the processing of personal data in that context is 
out of scope.  

35. 

Finally, this document does not aim to address all possible issues and questions raised by connected 
vehicles and can therefore not be considered as exhaustive.  

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

1.4  Definitions 
The  processing  of  personal  data  encompasses  any  operation  that  involves  personal  data  such  as 
collection,  recording,  organisation,  structuring,  storage,  adaptation  or  alteration,  retrieval, 
consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment 
or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction, etc.  

The  data  subject  is  the  natural  person  to  whom  the  data  covered  by  the  processing  relate.  In  the 
context of connected vehicles, it can, in particular, be the driver (main or occasional), the passenger, 
or the owner of the vehicle.  

The data controller  is the person who determines the purposes and means of processing that take 
place in connected vehicles. Data controllers can include service providers that process vehicle data to 
send  the  driver  traffic-information,  eco-driving  messages  or  alerts  regarding  the  functioning  of  the 
vehicle, insurance companies offering “Pay As You Drive” contracts, or vehicle manufacturers gathering 
data on the wear and tear affecting the vehicle’s parts to improve its quality. Pursuant to art. 26 GDPR, 
two or more controllers can jointly determine the purposes and means of the processing and thus be 
considered as joint controllers. In this case, they have to clearly define their respective obligations, 
especially as regards the exercising of the rights of data subjects and the provision of information as 
referred to in art. 13 and 14 GDPR. 

The data processor is any person who processes personal data for and on behalf of the data controller. 
The data processor collects and processes data on instruction from the data controller, without using 
those data for its own account. As an example, in a number of cases, equipment manufacturers and 
automotive suppliers may process data on behalf of vehicle manufacturers (which does not imply they 
cannot be a data controller for other purposes). In addition to requiring data processors to implement 
appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  in  order  to  guarantee  a  security  level  that  is 
adapted to risk, e.g. art. 28 GDPR sets out data processors’ obligations. 

The recipient means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or another body, to which the 
personal data are disclosed, whether a third party or not. As an example, a commercial partner of the 
service provider that receives from the service provider personal data generated from the vehicle is a 
recipient of personal data. Whether they act as a new data controller or as a data processor, they shall 
comply with all the obligations imposed by the GDPR.  

41.  However, public authorities which may receive personal data in the framework of a particular inquiry 
in accordance with Union or Member State law shall not be regarded as recipients; the processing of 
those data by those public authorities shall be in compliance with the applicable data protection rules 
according  to  the  purposes  of  the  processing.  As  an  example,  law  enforcement  authorities  are 
authorised third parties when they request personal data as part of an investigation in accordance with 
European Union or Member State law. 

 

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

9 

 

1.5  Privacy and data protection risks 

42.  Article 29 Working Party has already expressed several concerns about Internet of Things (IoT) systems 
that can also apply to connected vehicles.23 The issues relating to data security and control already 
stressed regarding IoT are even more sensitive in the context of connected vehicles, since it entails 
road  safety  concerns  –  and  can  impact  the  physical  integrity  of  the  driver  –  in  an  environment 
traditionally perceived as isolated and protected from external interferences.  

43.  Also,  connected  vehicles  raises  significant  data  protection  and  privacy  concerns  regarding  the 
processing  of  location  data  as  its  increasingly  intrusive  nature  can  put  a  strain  on  the  current 
possibilities  to  remain  anonymous.  The  EDPB  wants  to  place  particular  emphasis  and  raise 
stakeholders awareness to the fact that the use of location technologies requires the implementation 
of specific safeguards in order to prevent surveillance of individuals and misuse of the data. 

1.5.1  Lack of control and information asymmetry  

44.  Vehicle drivers and passengers may not always be adequately informed about the processing of data 
taking place in or through a connected vehicle. The information may be given only to the vehicle owner, 
who may not be the driver, and may also not be provided in a timely fashion. Thus, there is a risk that 
there are insufficient functionalities or options offered to exercise the control necessary for affected 
individuals to avail themselves of their data protection and privacy rights. This point is of importance 
since, during their lifetime, vehicles may belong to more than one owner either because they are sold 
or because they are being leased rather than purchased. In addition, vehicles are increasingly being 
shared or rented, not just by companies, but also individuals, and the person whose data is collected 
may not be able to object to some data processing.24  

45.  Also, communication in the vehicle can be triggered automatically as well as by default, without the 
individual being aware of it. In the absence of the possibility to effectively control how the vehicle and 
its connected equipment interact, it is bound to become extraordinarily difficult for the user to control 
the  flow  of  data.  It  will  be  even  more  difficult  to  control  its  subsequent  use,  and  thereby  prevent 
potential function creep.  

46. 

 Quality of the user’s consent 

1.5.2 
The EDPB underlines that, when the data processing is based on consent, all elements of valid consent 
have  to  be  met  which  means  that  consent  shall  be  free,  specific  and  informed  and  constitutes  an 
unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes as interpreted in EDPB guidelines on consent. 25 
Data  controllers  need  to  pay  careful  attention  to  the  modalities  of  obtaining  valid  consent  from 
different participants, such as car owners or car users. Such consent must be provided separately, for 
specific purposes and may not be bundled with the contract to buy or lease a new car. Consent must 
be as easily withdrawn as it is given.  

47. 

The  same  has  to  be  applied  when  consent  is  required  to  comply  with  the  “ePrivacy”  directive,  for 
example if there is a storing of information or the gaining of access to information already stored in 
the  vehicle  as  required  in  certain  cases  by  art.  5(3)  of  the  “ePrivacy”  directive.  Indeed,  as  outlined 
above, consent in this context has to be interpreted in light of the GDPR.  

 

23 WP29 – Opinion 8/2014 on the Recent Developments on the Internet of Things; 
https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp223_en.pdf   
24 Privacy International – Connected Cars: What Happened to Our Data on Rental Cars; 
https://privacyinternational.org/sites/default/files/2017-12/cars_briefing.pdf   
25 Article 29 Working Party – WP259 rev.01 -  Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679; 
https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=623051 - endorsed by the EDPB 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

10 

 

48. 

In many cases, the user may not be aware of the data processing carried out in his/her vehicle. Such 
lack of information constitutes a significant barrier to demonstrating valid consent under the GDPR, as 
the consent must be informed. In such circumstances, consent cannot be relied upon as a legal basis 
for the corresponding data processing under the GDPR.  

49.  Classic  mechanisms  used  to  obtain  individuals’  consent  may  be  difficult  to  apply  in  the  context  of 
connected vehicles, resulting in a “low-quality” consent based on a lack of information or in the factual 
impossibility to provide fine-tuned consent in line with the preferences expressed by individuals. In 
practice, consent might also be difficult to obtain for drivers and passengers who are not related to 
the vehicle’s owner in the case of second-hand, leased, rented or borrowed vehicles.  

1.5.3  Further processing of personal data  

50.  When data are collected on the basis of consent as required by art. 5(3) of the “ePrivacy” directive or 
on one of the exemptions of art. 5(3), it can only be further processed either if the controller seeks 
additional consent for this other purpose or if the data controller can demonstrate that it is based on 
a Union or Member State law to safeguard the objectives referred to in art. 23 (1) GDPR. The EDPB 
considers that further processing on the basis of a compatibility test according to art. 6(4) GDPR is not 
possible  in  these  cases,  since  it  would  undermine  the  data  protection  standard  of  the  “ePrivacy” 
directive. 

51. 

52. 

53. 

The EDPB recalls that the initial consent will never legitimise further processing as consent need to be 
informed and specific to be valid. 

For instance, telemetry data, which is collected during use of the vehicle for maintenance purposes 
may  not  be  disclosed  to  motor  insurance  companies  without  the  users  consent  for  the  purpose  of 
creating driver profiles to offer driving behaviour based insurance policies.  

Furthermore, data collected by connected vehicles may be processed by law enforcement authorities 
to detect speeding or other infractions if and when the specific conditions in the law enforcement 
directive are fulfilled. In this case, such data will be considered as relating to criminal convictions and 
offences  under  the  conditions  laid  down  by  art.  10  GDPR  and  any  applicable  national  legislation. 
Manufacturers may provide the law enforcement authorities with such data if the specific conditions 
for  such processing are fulfilled.  The EDPB points out that processing of personal data  for the sole 
purpose of  fulfilling requests made by law enforcement authorities does not constitute a specified, 
explicit  and  legitimate  purpose  within  the  meaning  of  art.  5(1)(b)  GDPR.  When  law  enforcement 
authorities are authorized by law, they could be third parties within the meaning of art. 4(10) GDPR, 
in this case manufacturers would be entitled to provide them with any data at their disposal subject 
to compliance with the relevant legal framework in each Member State.  

1.5.4  Excessive data collection 

54.  With the ever-increasing number of sensors being deployed in connected vehicles there is a very high 

risk of excessive data collection compared to what is necessary to achieve the purpose.  

55. 

The  development  of  new  functionalities  and  more  specifically  those  based  on  machine  learning 
algorithms may require a large amount of data collected over a long period of time 

56. 

1.5.5  Security of personal data 
The  plurality  of  functionalities,  services  and  interfaces  (e.g.,  web,  USB,  RFID,  Wi-Fi)  offered  by 
connected  vehicles  increases  the  attack  surface  and  thus  the  number  of  potential  vulnerabilities 
through  which  personal  data  could  be  compromised.  Unlike  most  Internet  of  Things  devices, 
connected vehicles are critical systems where a security breach may endanger the life of its users and 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

11 

 

people  around.  The  importance  of  addressing  the  risk  of  hackers  attempting  to  exploit  connected 
vehicles’ vulnerabilities is thus heightened.  

57. 

In addition,  personal data  stored on vehicles and/or at  external locations  (e.g., in cloud computing 
infrastructures)  may  not  be  adequately  secured  against  unauthorized  access.  For  instance,  during 
maintenance,  a  vehicle  has  to  be  handed  to  a  technician  who  will  require  access  to  some  of  the 
vehicle’s technical data. While the technician needs to have access to the technical data, there is a 
possibility that the technician could attempt to access all the data stored in the vehicle.  

2  GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS 

58. 

In  order  to  mitigate  the  risks  for  data  subjects 
identified  above,  the  following  general 
recommendations should be followed by vehicle and equipment manufacturers, service providers or 
any  other  stakeholder  who  may  act  as  data  controller  or  data  processor  in  relation  to  connected 
vehicles. 

2.1  Categories of data 

59.  As noted in the introduction, most data associated with connected vehicles will be considered personal 
data to the extent that it is possible to link it to one or more identifiable individuals. This includes 
technical data concerning the vehicle’s movements (e.g., speed, distance travelled) as well concerning 
the vehicle’s condition (e.g., engine coolant temperature, engine RPM, tyre pressure). Certain data 
generated  by  connected  vehicles  may  also  warrant  special  attention  given  their  sensitivity  and/or 
potential impact on the rights and interests of data subjects. At present, the EDPB has identified three 
categories of personal data warranting special attention, by vehicle and equipment manufacturers, 
service providers and other data controllers: location data, biometric data (and any special category of 
data as defined in art. 9 GDPR) and data that could reveal offences or traffic violations.  

2.1.1  Geolocation data 

60.  When  collecting  personal  data,  vehicle  and  equipment  manufacturers,  service  providers  and  other 
data controllers should keep in mind that geolocation data are particularly revealing of the life habits 
of data subjects. The journeys carried out are very characteristic in that they enable one to infer the 
place  of  work  and  of  residence,  as  well  as  a  driver’s  centers  of  interest  (leisure),  and  may  possibly 
reveal  sensitive  information  such  as  religion  through  the  place  of  worship,  or  sexual  orientation 
through the places visited. Accordingly, the vehicle and equipment manufacturer, service provider and 
other  data  controller  shall  be  particularly  vigilant  not  to  collect  location  data  except  if  doing  so  is 
absolutely necessary for the purpose of processing. As an example, when the processing consists in 
detecting  the  vehicle’s  movement,  the  gyroscope  is  sufficient  to  fulfil  that  function,  without  there 
being a need to collect location data.  

61. 

In general, collecting geolocation data is also subject to compliance with the following principles: 

−  adequate configuration of the frequency of access to, and of the level of detail of, geolocation 
data collected relative to the purpose of processing. For example, a weather application should 
not be able to access the vehicle’s geolocation every second, even with the consent of the data 
subject; 

−  providing  accurate  information  on  the  purpose  of  processing  (e.g.,  is  geolocation  history 

stored? If so, what is its purpose?); 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

12 

 

−  when the processing is based on consent, obtaining valid (free, specific and informed) consent 
that  is  distinct  from  the  general  conditions  of  sale  or  use,  for  example  on  the  onboard 
computer ;  

−  activating geolocation only when the user launches a functionality that requires the vehicle’s 

location to be known, and not by default and continuously when the car is started; 

− 

informing the user that geolocation has been activated, in particular by using icons (e.g., an 
arrow that moves across the screen); 

− 

the option to deactivate geolocation at any time;  

−  defining a limited storage period;  

62. 

 Biometric data 

2.1.2 
In the context of connected vehicles, biometric data may be used, for among other things, to enable 
access  to  a  vehicle, to  authenticate  the  driver/owner,  and/or  to  enable  access  to  a  driver’s  profile 
settings and preferences. When considering the use of biometric data, guaranteeing the data subject 
full  control  over  his  or  her  data  involves,  on  the  one  hand,  providing  for  the  existence  of  a  non-
biometric alternative (e.g., using a physical key or a code) without additional constraint (that is, the 
use  of  biometrics  should  not  be  mandatory),  and,  on  the  other  hand,  storing  and  comparing  the 
biometric template in encrypted form only on a local basis, with biometric data not being processed 
by an external reading/comparison terminal. 

63. 

In the case of biometric data, it is important to ensure that the biometric authentication solution is 
sufficiently reliable, in particular by complying with the following principles: 

− 

− 

the  adjustment  of  the  biometric  solution  used  (e.g.,  the  rate  of  false  positives  and  false 
negatives) is adapted to the security level of the required access control; 

the biometric solution used is based on a sensor that is resistant to attacks (such as the use of 
a flat-printed print for fingerprint recognition); 

− 

the number of authentication attempts is limited;  

− 

− 

the  biometric  template/model  is  stored  in  the  vehicle,  in  an  encrypted  form  using  a 
cryptographic algorithm and key management that comply with the state of the art;  

the  raw  data  used  to  make  up  the  biometric  template  and  for  user  authentication  are 
processed in real time without ever being stored, even locally. 

64. 

2.1.3  Data revealing criminal offenses or other infractions 
It is possible that personal data from connected vehicles could reveal the commitment of a criminal 
offence or other infraction (“offence-related data”) and therefore be subject to special restrictions. 
For instance, the instantaneous speed  of a vehicle combined with precise geolocation data or data 
indicating that the vehicle crossed a white line could be considered offence-related data. As a result, 
processing of  such data can only be carried out under the control of official authority or when the 
processing is authorised by Union or Member State law providing for appropriate safeguards for the 
rights and freedoms of data subjects as stated in art. 10 GDPR. The EDPB considers that instantaneous 
speed is, not on its own, offence-related data since it does not, by itself, reveal an offence given that 
speed restrictions vary by location. However, such data could nevertheless become offence-related 
data  because  of  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  collected  (e.g.,  for  the  purposes  of  investigating  and 
prosecuting criminal offence), in which case the safeguards set out in art. 10 GDPR would apply. 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

13 

 

65. 

In order to process data that relate to potential criminal offences, EDPB recommends to resort to the 
local  processing  of  the  data  where  the  data  subject  have  full  control  over  the  processing  in 
question(see discussion on local processing above, in section 2.1). Indeed – except for some exceptions 
(see the case study on accidentology studies presented below in section 3.2) – external processing of 
data revealing criminal offences or other infractions is forbidden. Thus, according to the sensitivity of 
the data, strong security measures such as those described in section 2.7 must be put in place in order 
to offer protection against the illegitimate access, modification and deletion of those data. 

2.2  Purposes  

66.  Personal  data  may  be  processed  for  a  wide  variety  of  purposes  in  relation  to  connected  vehicles, 
including driver safety, insurance, efficient transportation, entertainment or information services. In 
accordance with the GDPR, data controllers must ensure that their purposes are “specified, explicit 
and legitimate”, not further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes and that there is a 
valid legal basis for the processing as required in ar. 5 GDPR. Some concrete examples of purposes that 
may be pursued by data controllers operating in the context of connected vehicles are discussed in 
Part III of these guidelines, along with specific recommendations for each type of processing.  

67. 

68. 

2.3  Relevance and data minimisation 
To  comply  with  the  data  minimization  principles,  vehicle  and  equipment  manufacturers,  service 
providers and other data controllers should pay special attention to the categories of data they need 
from a connected vehicle, as they shall only collect personal data that are relevant and necessary for 
the processing. For instance, location data are particularly intrusive and can reveal many life habits of 
the data subjects. Accordingly, industry participants shall be particularly vigilant not to collect location 
data  except  if  doing  so  is  absolutely  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  processing  (see  discussion  on 
geolocation data above, in section 2.2). 

2.4  Data protection by design and by default  
Taking into account the volume and diversity of personal data produced by connected vehicles, the 
EDPB notes that data controllers are required to ensure that technologies deployed in the context of 
connected vehicles are configured to respect the privacy of individuals by applying the obligations of 
data protection by design and by default as required by art. 25 GDPR. Technologies should be designed 
to minimize the collection of personal data, provide privacy-protective default settings and ensure that 
data subjects are well informed and have the option to easily modify configurations associated with 
their personal data. Specific guidance on how manufacturers and service providers can comply with 
data protection by design and by default could be beneficial for the industry.  

69.  Certain general practices, described below, can also help mitigate the risks to the rights and freedoms 

of natural persons associated with connected vehicles. 

70. 

2.4.1  Local processing of personal data  
In general, vehicle and equipment manufacturers, service providers and other data controllers should, 
wherever  possible,  use  processes  that  do  not  involve  personal  data  or  transferring  personal  data 
outside  of  the  vehicle  (i.e.,  the  data  is  processed  internally).  This  scenario  offers  the  advantage  of 
guaranteeing to the user the sole and full control of his/her personal data and, as such, it presents, “by 
design”, less privacy risks especially by prohibiting any data processing by stakeholders without the 
data subject knowledge. It also enables the processing of sensitive data such as biometric data or data 
relating to criminal offenses  or other infractions, as well as detailed location data  which otherwise 
would be subject to stricter rules (see below). In the same vein, it presents fewer cybersecurity risks 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

14 

 

and  involves  little  latency,  which  makes  it  particularly  suited  to  automated  driving-assistance 
functions. Some examples of this type of solution could include:  

−  eco-driving applications that process data in the vehicle in order to display eco-driving advice 

in real time on the on-board screen;  

−  applications that involve a transfer of personal data to a device such as a smartphone under 
the user’s full control (via, for example, Bluetooth or Wi-Fi), and where the vehicle’s data are 
not transmitted to the application providers or the vehicle manufacturers; this would include, 
for  instance,  coupling  of  smartphones  to  use  the  car’s  display,  multimedia  systems, 
microphone  (or  other  sensors)  for  phone  calls,  etc.,  to  the  extent  that  the  data  collected 
remain under the control of the data subject and is exclusively used to provide the service he 
or she has requested; 

− 

in-vehicle safety enhancing applications such as those that provide audible signals or vibrations 
of the steering wheel when a driver overtakes a car without indicating or straying over white 
lines or which provides alerts as to the state of the vehicle (e.g., an alert on the wear and tear 
affecting brake pads);  

−  applications  for  unlocking,  starting,  and/or  activating  certain  vehicle  commands  using  the 
driver’s  biometric  data  that  is  stored  within  the  vehicle  (such  as  a  face  or  voice  models  or 
fingerprint minutiae). 

71.  Applications such as the above involve processing carried out for the performance of purely personal 
activities by a natural person (i.e., without the transfer of personal data to a data controller or data 
processor). Therefore, in accordance with art. 2(2) GDPR, these applications fall outside the scope of 
the GDPR.  

72. 

Local  data  processing  should  be  considered  by  car  manufacturers  and  service  providers,  whenever 
possible to mitigate the potential risks of cloud processing, as they are underlined in the opinion on 
Cloud Computing released by the Article 29 Working Party.26  

73.  However, if the GDPR does not apply to the processing of personal data by a natural person in the 
course of a purely personal  or household activity, it does apply to controllers or  processors,  which 
provide  the  means  for  processing  personal  data  for  such  personal  or  household  activities  (car 
manufacturers,  service  provider,  etc.).  Hence,  when  they  are  acting  as  data  controller  or  data 
processor, they must develop secure in-car application and with due respect to the principle of privacy 
by design and by default.  In any case, according to Recital 78  GDPR, “When developing, designing, 
selecting and using applications, services and products that are based on the processing of personal 
data or process personal data to fulfil their task, producers of the products, services and applications 
should be encouraged to take into account the right to data protection when developing and designing 
such products, services and applications and, with due regard to the state of the art, to make sure that 
controllers and processors are able to fulfil their data protection obligations”. One the one hand, it will 
enhance the development of  user-centric services and, on the other hand, it will facilitate and secure 
any further uses in the future which could fall back within the scope of the GDPR. More specifically, 
the EDPB recommends developing a secure in-car application platform, physically divided from safety 
relevant car functions so that the access to car data does not depend on unnecessary external cloud 
capabilities. 

26 WP29 – Opinion 5/2012 on Cloud Computing; https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2012/wp196_en.pdf  

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

15 

 

74. 

In general users should be able to control how their data are collected and processed in the vehicle: 

− 

− 

information  regarding  the  processing  must  be  provided  in  the  driver’s  language  (manual, 
settings, etc.) ;  

the  EDPB  recommends  that  only  data  strictly  necessary  for  the  vehicle  functioning  are 
processed by default. Data subjects should have the possibility to activate or deactivate the 
data processing for each other purpose and controller/processor and have the possibility to 
delete the data concerned.; 

−  data should not be transmitted to any third parties (i.e., the user has sole access to the data); 

−  data  should  be  retained  only  for  as  long  as  is  necessary  for  the  provision  of  the  service  or 

otherwise required by Union or member state law  ; 

−  data subjects should be able to delete permanently any personal data before the vehicles are 

put up for sale;  

−  data  subjects  should,  where  feasible,  have  a  direct  access  to  the  data  generated  by  these 

applications. 

75. 

76. 

Finally, while it may not always be possible to resort to local data processing for every use-case, “hybrid 
processing” can often be put in place. For instance, in the context of usage-based insurance, personal 
data regarding driving behaviour (such as the force exerted on the brake pedal, mileage driven, etc.) 
could  either  be  processed  inside  the  vehicle  or  by  the telematics  service  provider  on  behalf  of  the 
insurance  company  (the  data  controller)  to  generate  numerical  scores  that  are  transferred  to  the 
insurance company on a defined basis (e.g. monthly basis). In this way, the insurance company does 
not gain access to the raw behavioural data but only to the aggregate score that is the result of the 
processing. This ensures that principles of data minimization are satisfied by design. This also means 
that  users  must  have  the  ability  to  exercise  their  right  when  data  are  stored  by  other  parties,  for 
example a user should have the ability to delete data stored in the systems of a car maintenance shop 
or dealership. 

2.4.2  Anonymization and pseudonymisation  
If  data  must  leave  the  vehicle,  consideration  should  be  given  to  anonymize  them  before  being 
transmitted.  The  EDPB  recalls  that  the  principles  of  data  protection  do  not  apply  to  anonymous 
information, namely information which does not relate to an identified or identifiable natural person 
or to personal data rendered anonymous in such a manner that the data subject is not or no longer 
identifiable. Once a dataset is truly anonymised and individuals are no longer identifiable, European 
data protection law no longer applies. As a consequence, anonymization, where relevant, may be a 
good strategy to keep the benefits and to mitigate the risks in relation to connected vehicles.  

77.  As detailed in the opinion adopted in April 2014 by the Article 29 Working Party on  anonymization 
techniques,  various  methods  can  be  used  –  sometimes  in  combination  –  in  order  to  reach  data 
anonymization.27  

78.  Other  techniques  such  as  pseudonymisation  can  help  minimize  the  risks  generated  by  the  data 
processing,  taking  into  account  that  in  most  cases,  directly  identifiable  data  are  not  necessary  to 
achieve  the  purpose  of  the  processing.  Pseudonymisation  consists  of  replacing  directly  identifying 

27 WP29 - Opinion 05/2014 on Anonymisation Techniques; https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-
29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp216_en.pdf  

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

16 

 

personal data by a non-signifying pseudonym. This can be done by, for example, using a secret-key 
hash algorithm. Pseudonymisation, if  reinforced by security safeguards, improves the protection of 
personal data by reducing the risks of misuse. Pseudonymisation is reversible, unlike anonymization, 
and is considered as personal data subject to the GDPR.  

2.4.3  Data protection impact assessments 

79.  Given the scale and sensitivity of the personal data that can be generated via connected vehicles; it is 
likely  that  processing  –  particularly  in  situations  where  personal  data  are  processed  outside  of  the 
vehicle - will often result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals. Where this is the case, 
industry  participants  will  be  required  to  perform  a  data  protection  impact  assessment  (DPIA)    to 
identify and mitigate the risks as detailed in the art. 35 and 36 GDPR. Even in the cases where a DPIA 
is not required, it is a best practice to conduct one as early as possible in the design process. This will 
allow industry participants to factor the results of this analysis into their design choices prior to the 
roll-out of new technologies.  

2.5 

Information  

80.  Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject shall be informed of the identity of the data 
controller  (e.g.,  the  vehicle  and  equipment  manufacturer  or  service  provider),  the  purpose  of 
processing, the data recipients, the period for which data will be stored, and the data subject’s rights 
under the GDPR. 

81. 

In addition, the vehicle and equipment manufacturer, service provider or other data controller shall 
also  provide  the  data  subject  with  the  following  information,  in  clear,  simple,  and  easily-accessible 
terms:  

− 

the contact details of the data protection officer;  

− 

− 

the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the legal 
basis for the processing ;  

the explicit mention of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a third 
party, when such legitimate interests constitute the legal basis for processing; 

− 

the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;  

− 

− 

the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used 
to determine that period;  

the existence of the right to request from the controller access to and rectification or erasure 
of  personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  concerning  the  data  subject  or  to  object  to 
processing as well as the right to data portability 

− 

the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time without affecting the lawfulness of 
processing based on consent before its withdrawal where the processing is based on consent  ;   

−  where  applicable,  the  fact  that  the  controller  intends  to  transfer  personal  data  to  a  third 

country or international organisation and safeguards used to transfer them ;  

−  whether  the  provision  of  personal  data  is  a  statutory  or  contractual  requirement,  or  a 
requirement necessary to enter into a contract, as well as whether the data subject is obliged 
to provide the personal data and of the possible consequences of failure to provide such data;  

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

17 

 

− 

the  existence  of  automated  decision-making,  including  profiling  that  produces  legal  effects 
concerning the data subject or similarly significantly affects the data subject, and meaningful 
information  about  the  logic  involved,  as  well  as  the  significance  and  the  envisaged 
consequences of such processing for the data subject. This could particularly be the case in 
relation to the provision of usage-based insurance to individuals ;  

− 

the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority ;  

− 

information about further processing ;  

− 

In case of joint data controllership, clear and complete information about the responsibilities 
of each data controller. 

82. 

In some cases, personal data is not collected directly from the individual concerned. For instance, a 
vehicle and equipment manufacturer may rely on a dealer to collect information about the owner of 
the  vehicle  in  order  to  offer  an  emergency  road  side  assistance  service.  When  data  have  not  been 
collected directly, the vehicle and equipment manufacturer, service provider or other data controller 
shall, in addition to the information mentioned above, also indicate the categories of personal data 
concerned, the source from which the personal data originate, and, if applicable, whether those data 
came from publicly accessible sources. That information must be provided by the controller within a 
reasonable  period  after  obtaining  the  data,  and  no  later  than  the  first  of  the  following  dates  in 
accordance with Art. 14  (3) GDPR: (i) one month after  the data are obtained, having regard to the 
specific circumstances in which the personal data are processed, (ii) upon first communication with 
the data subject, or (iii) if those data are transmitted to a third party, before the transmission of the 
data. 

83.  New information may also need to be provided to data subjects when they are taken care of by new 
data controller, for instance if they cross borders. Roadside assistance that interacts with connected 
vehicles  can  be  provided  by  different  data  controllers  depending  on  which  country  or  region  the 
assistance  is  required  in.  New  data  controllers  shall  provide  data  subjects  with  the  required 
information when data subjects cross borders and services that interact with connected vehicles are 
provided by new data controllers. 

84. 

The information directed to the data subjects may be provided in layers28, i.e., by separating two levels 
of  information:  on  the  one  hand,  first-level  information,  which  is  the  most  important  for  the  data 
subjects,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  information  that  presumably  is  of  interest  at  a  later  stage.  The 
essential first-level information includes, in addition to the identity of the data controller, the purpose 
of the processing and a description of the data subject’s rights, as well as any additional information 
on the processing which has the most impact on the data subject and processing which could surprise 
them. The EDPB recommends that, in the context of connected vehicles, the data subject to be made 
aware  of  all  the  recipients  in  the  first  layer  of  information.  As  stated  in  the  WP29  guidelines  on 
transparency, controllers must provide information on the recipients that is most meaningful for data 
subjects. In practice, this will generally be the named recipients, so that  data subjects know exactly 
who has their personal data. If controllers cannot provide the names of the recipients, the information 
should be as specific as possible by indicating the type of recipient (i.e. by reference to the activities it 
carries out), the industry, sector and sub-sector and the location of the recipients. 

28 Article 29 Working Party - WP260 rev.01 - Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679. 
https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-detail.cfm?item_id=622227 - endorsed by the EDPB 

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

18 

 

85. 

86. 

The data subjects may be informed by concise and easily understandable clauses in the contract of 
sale of the vehicle, in the contract for the provision of services, and/or in any written medium, by using 
distinct documents (e.g., the vehicle’s maintenance record book or manual) or the onboard computer.  

Standardised icons could be used in addition to the information necessary, as required under art. 13 
and 14 GDPR, to enhance transparency by potentially reducing the need for vast amounts of written 
information to be presented to a data subject. It should be visible in vehicles in order to provide, in 
relation to the planned processing, a good overview that is understandable, and clearly  legible. The 
EDPB emphasises the importance of standardising those icons, so that the user finds the same symbols 
regardless of the make or model of the vehicle. For example, when certain types of data are being 
collected, such as geolocation, the vehicles could have a clear signal on-board (such as a light inside 
the vehicle) to inform passengers about data collection. 

2.6  Rights of the data subject 

87.  Vehicle and equipment manufacturers, service providers and other data controllers should facilitate 
data subjects’ control over their data during the entire processing period, through the implementation 
of specific tools providing an effective way to exercise their rights, in particular their right of access, 
rectification, erasure, their right to restrict the processing and, depending on the legal basis of the 
processing, their right to data portability and their right to object.  

88. 

To facilitate settings modifications, a profile management system should be implemented inside the 
vehicle in order to store the preferences of known drivers and help them to change easily their privacy 
settings anytime. The profile management system in a vehicle should centralize every data settings for 
each data processing, especially to facilitate the access, deletion and removal of personal data from 
vehicle systems at the request of the data subject. Drivers should be enabled to stop the collection of 
certain  types  of  data,  temporarily  or  permanently,  at  any  moment,  except  if  a  specific  legislation 
provides otherwise or if the data are essential to the critical functions of the vehicle.  

89. 

The sale of a connected vehicle and the ensuing change of ownership should also trigger the deletion 
of any personal data, which is no longer needed for the previous specified purposes. 

2.7  Security and confidentiality 

90.  Vehicle and equipment manufacturers, service providers and other data controllers shall put in place 
measures  that  guarantee  the  security  and  confidentiality  of  processed  data  and  take  all  useful 
precautions  to  prevent  control  being  taken  by  an  unauthorised  person.  In  particular,  industry 
participants should consider adopting the following measures: 

−  encrypting the communication channels by means of a state-of-the-art algorithm;  

−  putting in place an encryption-key management system that is unique to each vehicle, not to 

each model;  

−  when stored remotely, encrypting data by means of state-of-the-art algorithms; 

− 

regularly renewing encryption keys;  

−  protecting encryptions keys from any disclosure;  

−  authenticating data-receiving devices;  

−  ensuring data integrity (e.g., by hashing); 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

19 

 

−  make access to personal data subject to reliable user authentication techniques (password, 

electronic certificate, etc.);  

91.  Concerning more specifically vehicle manufacturers, the EDPB recommends the implementation of the 

following security measures:  

−  partitioning  the  vehicle’s  vital  functions  from  those  always  relying  on  telecommunication 

capacities (e.g., “infotainment”);  

− 

− 

− 

− 

implementing technical measures that enable vehicle manufacturers to rapidly patch security 
vulnerabilities during the entire lifespan of the vehicle;  

for the vehicle’s vital functions, give priority as much as possible to using secure frequencies 
that are specifically dedicated to transportation;  

setting up an alarm system in case of attack on the vehicle’s systems, with the possibility of 
operating in downgraded mode; 

storing  a  log  history  of  any  access  to  the  vehicle’s  information  system,  e.g.  going  back  six 
months  as  a  maximum  period,  in  order  to  enable  the  origin  of  any  potential  attack  to  be 
understood and periodically carry out a review of the logged information to detect possible 
anomalies. 

92. 

These general recommendations shall be completed by specific requirements taking into account the 
characteristics and purpose of each data processing. 

93. 

94. 

95. 

2.8  Transmitting personal data to third parties 
In  principle,  only  the  data  controller  and  the  data  subject  have  access  to  the  data  generated  by  a 
connected vehicle. However, the data controller may transmit personal data to a commercial partner 
(recipient), to the extent that such transmission is based on one of the legal basis stated in Art. 6 GDPR.  

The vehicle manufacturer, service provider or other data controller can transmit personal data to a 
data processor selected to play a part in providing the service to the data subject, provided the data 
processor shall not use those data for its own purpose. Data controllers and data processors shall draw 
up  a  contract  or  other  legal  document  specifying  the  obligations  of  each  party  and  setting  out  the 
provisions of Art. 28 GDPR. 

In view of the possible sensitivity of the vehicle-usage data (e.g., journeys  made, driving style), the 
EDPB recommends that the data subject’s consent be systematically obtained before their data are 
transmitted to a commercial partner acting as a data controller (e.g., by ticking a box that is not pre-
ticked, or, where technically possible, by using a physical or logical device that the person can access 
from the vehicle). The commercial partner in turn becomes responsible for the data that it receives, 
and is subject to all the provisions of the GDPR. 

2.9  Transfer of personal data outside the EU/EEA 

96.  When  personal  data  is  transferred  outside  the  European  Economic  Area,  special  safeguards  are 

foreseen to ensure that the protection travels with the data.  

97.  As a consequence, the data controller may transfer personal data to a recipient only to the extent that 

such transfer is in accordance with the requirements laid down in Chapter V GDPR. 

 

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

20 

 

2.10  Use of in-vehicle Wi-Fi technologies  

98.  Advances in cellular technology have made it possible to easily use the Internet on the road. While it 
is possible to get Wi-Fi connectivity in a vehicle through a smartphone hotspot or a dedicated device 
(OBD-II  dongle,  wireless  modem  or  router,  etc.),  most  manufacturers  offer  nowadays  models  that 
include a built-in cellular data connection and are also capable of creating Wi-Fi networks. Depending 
on the case, various aspects must be considered: 

−  The Wi-Fi connectivity is offered as a service by a road professional, such as a taxi driver for its 
customers.  In  this  case,  the  professional  or  his/her  company  might  be  considered  as  an 
internet  service  provider  (ISP),  hence  be  subject  to  specific  obligations  and  restrictions 
regarding the processing of his / her clients’ personal data.  

−  The Wi-Fi connectivity is put in place for the sole use of the driver (at the exclusion of and its 
passengers. In this case, the processing of personal data is considered to be purely personal or 
household activity.  

99. 

In  general,  the  proliferation  of  Internet  connection  interfaces  via  Wi-Fi  poses  greater  risks  to  the 
privacy of individuals. Indeed, through their vehicles, users become continuous broadcasters, and can 
therefore  be  identified  and  tracked.  In  order  to  prevent  tracking,  easy  to  operate  opt-out  options 
ensuring the service set identifier (SSID) of the on-board Wi-Fi network is not collected must therefore 
be put in place by the vehicle and equipment manufacturers. 

3  CASE STUDIES  

100.  This section addresses five specific examples of processing in the context of connected vehicles, which 
correspond to scenarios likely to be encountered by stakeholders in the sector. The examples cover 
data  processing  that  requires  calculating  power  which  cannot  be  mobilised  locally  in  the  vehicle, 
and/or the sending of personal data to a third party to carry out further analysis or to provide further 
functionality remotely. For each type of processing, this document specifies the intended purposes, 
the categories of  data collected, the retention period  of such data, the rights of data subjects, the 
security measures to be implemented, and the recipients of the information. In the case some of these 
fields are not described in the following, the general recommendations described in the previous part 
apply. 

101.  The examples chosen are non-exhaustive and are meant to be indicative of the variety of types  of 

processing, legal bases, actors, etc. that might be engaged in the context of connected vehicles.  

3.1  Provision of a service by a third party  

102.  Data subjects may contract with a service provider in order to obtain added-value services relating to 
their vehicle. For example, a data subject may enter into a “Pay As You Drive” insurance contract that 
offers reduced insurance premiums for good driving behaviour and which necessitates monitoring of 
driving habits by the insurance company. A data subject could also contract with a company that offers 
roadside assistance in the event of a breakdown and which entails the transmission of the vehicle’s 
location to the company or with a service provider in order to receive messages or alerts relating to 
the  vehicle’s  functioning  (e.g.,  an  alert  on  the  state  of  brake  wear,  or  a  reminder  of  the  technical-
inspection date).  

3.1.1  Pay as you drive (PAYD) insurance 

103.  Pay  as  you  drive  is  a  type  of  usage-based  insurance  that  tracks  the  driver’s  mileage  and/or  driving 
habits  to  differentiate  and  reward  "safe"  drivers  by  giving  them  lower  premiums.  The  insurer  will 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

21 

 

require the driver to install a built-in telematics service that tracks the miles covered and the driving 
behaviour (braking pattern, rapid acceleration, etc.) of the policy holder. The information gathered by 
the telematic device will be used to assign the driver scores in order to analyse what risks he/she may 
pose to the insurance company. 

104.  The EDPB outlines that pay as you drive type of insurance should always be optional ; the policy holder 

must have the choice to subscribe to a non-usage-based insurance policy.  

3.1.1.1 

Legal basis  

105.  When the data is collected through a publicly available electronic communication service (for example 
via the SIM card contained in the telematics device), consent will be needed in order to gain access to 
information that is already stored in the vehicle as provided by art. 5(3) “ePrivacy” directive. Indeed, 
none of the exemptions provided by those provisions can apply in this context: the processing is not 
for  the  sole  purpose  of  carrying  out  the  transmission  of  a  communication  over  an  electronic 
communications network nor does it relate to an information society service explicitly requested by 
the subscriber or user. Consent could be collected at the time of the conclusion of the contract.  

106.  As regards the processing of personal data following the storage or access to the end-user’s terminal 
equipment, the insurance company can rely on art. 6(1)(b) GDPR in this specific context provided it can 
establish both that the processing takes place in the context of a valid contract with the data subject 
and  that  processing  is  necessary  in  order  that  the  particular  contract  with  the  data  subject  can  be 
performed. Insofar as the processing is objectively necessary for the performance of the contract with 
the data subject, the EDPB considers that reliance upon art. 6(1)(b) GDPR would not have the effect of 
lowering  the  additional  protection  provided  by  art.  5(3)  of  the  “ePrivacy”  Directive  in  this  specific 
instance.  That  legal  basis  is  materialised  by  the  data  subject  signing  a  contract  with  the  insurance 
company. 

3.1.1.2  Data collected  

107.  There is two types of personal data to be considered:  

−  commercial  and  transactional  data:  data  subject’s  identifying  information,  transaction-

related data, data relating to means of payment, etc. ;  

−  usage data: personal data generated by the vehicle, driving habits, location, etc.  

108.  The EDPB recommends that, as far as possible, and given that there is a risk that the data collected via 
the telematics-box could be misused to create a precise profile of the driver’s movements, raw data 
regarding driving behaviour must be either processed:  

− 

inside  the  vehicle  in  telematics  boxes  or  in  the  user’s  smartphone  so  that  the  insurer  only 
accesses the results data (e.g., a score relating to driving habits), not detailed raw data (see 
section 2.1) ;  

−  or by the telematics service provider on behalf of the controller (the insurance company) to 
generate numerical scores that are transferred to the insurance company on a defined basis. 
In this case, raw data and data directly relating to the identity of the driver must be separated. 
This means that the telematics service provider receives the real-time data, but does not know 
the names, licence plates, etc. of the policy holders. On the other hand, the insurer knows the 
names of policyholders, but only receives the scores and the total kilometres and not the raw 
data used to produce such scores. 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

22 

 

109.  Moreover, it has to be noted that if only the mileage is necessary for the performance of the contract, 

location data shall not be collected.   

3.1.1.3  Retention period 

110.  In the context of data processing taking place for the  performance of a contract (i.e. provision of a 
service),  it  is  important  to  distinguish  between  two  types  of  data  before  defining  their  respective 
retention periods: 

−  commercial and transactional data: those data can be retained in an active database for the 
full duration of the contract. At the end of the contract, they can be archived physically (on a 
separate medium: CD-ROM, etc.) or logically (by authorisation management) in the event of 
possible litigation. Thereafter, at the end of the statutory limitation periods, the data shall be 
deleted or anonymised ;  

−  usage data: usage data can be classified as raw data and aggregated data. As stated above, if 
possible, data controllers or processors should not process raw data. If it is necessary, raw data 
should be kept only as long as they are required to elaborate the aggregated data and to check 
the  validity  of  that  aggregation  process.  Aggregated  data  should  be  kept  as  long  as  it  is 
necessary for the provision of the service or otherwise requested by a Union or Member state 
law.  

3.1.1.4 

Information and rights of data subjects  

111.  Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject shall be informed according to art. 13 GDPR, 
in a transparent and understandable way. In particular, he or she must be informed of the period for 
which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, the criteria used to determine that 
period.  In  this  last  case,  the  EDPB  recommends  to  adopt  a  pedagogic  approach  to  emphasize  the 
difference between raw data and the score produced on this basis, stressing that the insurer will only 
collect the result of the score where appropriate.  

112.  Where data are not processed inside the vehicle but by a telematics provider on behalf of the controller 
(the insurance company), the information could usefully mention that, in this case, the provider will 
not have access to data directly relating to the identity of the driver (such as names, licence plates, 
etc.). Also, considering the importance of informing data subjects as to the consequences of processing 
of their personal data and the fact that data subjects should not be taken by surprise by the processing 
of their personal data, the EDPB recommends that data subject should be informed of the existence 
of profiling and the consequences of such profiling even if it does not involve any automated decision-
making as referred to in art. 22 GDPR.  

113.  Regarding  the  right  of  data  subjects,  they  shall  be  specifically  informed  of  the  available  means  to 
exercise his or her right of access, rectification, restriction and erasure. Since, raw data collected in this 
context are provided by the data subject (through specific forms or through his or her activity) and 
processed on the basis of art. 6(1)(b) GDPR (performance of a contract), the data subject is entitled to 
exercise  his  or  her  right  to  data  portability.  As  emphasized  in  the  guidelines  on  the  right  to  data 
portability,  the  EDPB  strongly  recommends,  “that  data  controllers  clearly  explain  the  difference 
between the types of data that a data subject can receive through the rights of subject access and data 
portability”.  

114.  The information can be provided when the contract is signed. 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

23 

 

3.1.1.5  Recipient:  

115.  The EDPB recommends that, as far as possible, the vehicle’s usage data should be processed directly 
in telematics boxes, so that the insurer only accesses the results data (e.g. a score), not detailed raw 
data. 

116.  If a telematics service provider collects the data on behalf of the controller (the insurance company) 
to  generate  numerical  scores,  it  does  not  need  to  know  the  identity  of  the  driver  (such  as  names, 
licence plates, etc.) of the policy holders.  

3.1.1.6 

Security:  

117.  General recommendations apply. See section 2.7.  

3.1.2  Renting and booking a parking space 

118.   The owner of a parking place may want to rent it. For this, he/she lists a spot and sets a price for it on 
a web application.  Then, once the parking spot is listed, the application notifies the owner  when a 
driver wants to book it. The driver can select a destination and check for available parking spots based 
on  multiple  criteria.  After  the  approval  of  the  owner,  the  transaction  is  confirmed  and  the  service 
provider handles the payment transaction then uses navigation to drive to the location.  

3.1.2.1 

Legal basis 

119.  When  the  data  is  collected  through  a  publicly  available  electronic  communication,  art.  5(3)  of  the 

“ePrivacy” directive applies.  

120.  Because this is an information society service,  art. 5(3)  of the “ePrivacy” directive does not require 
consent for gaining access to information that is already stored in the vehicle when such a service is 
explicitly requested by the subscriber. 

121.  For the processing of personal data and only for data necessary for the performance of the contract to 

which the data subject is party, art. 6(1)(b) GDPR will be the legal basis.  

3.1.2.2  Data collected 

122.  Data processed includes the driver contact details (name, email, telephone number, vehicle type (e.g. 
car, truck, motorcycle), license plate number, parking period, payment details (e.g. credit card info) as 
well as navigation data.  

3.1.2.3  Retention period 

123.  Data must be retained as long as it is necessary to fulfil the parking contract or otherwise as provided 

by Union or Member State law. After that data is either anonymized or deleted.  

3.1.2.4 

Information and rights of data subjects  

124.  Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject shall be informed according to art. 13 GDPR, 

in a transparent and understandable way.  

125.  The data subject must be specifically informed of the available means to exercise his or her right of 
access, rectification, restriction and erasure. Since, the data collected in this context are provided by 
the data subject (through specific forms or through his or her activity) and processed on the basis of 
art. 6(1)(b) GDPR (performance of a contract), the data subject is entitled to exercise his or her right 
to data portability. As emphasized in the guidelines on the right to data portability, the EDPB strongly 
recommends “that data controllers clearly explain the difference between the types of data that a data 
subject can receive through the rights of subject access and data portability”.  

3.1.2.5  Recipient:  

126.  In principle, only the data controller and the data processor have access to the data.  

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

24 

 

3.1.2.6 

Security:  

127.  General recommendations apply. See section 2.7 

3.2  eCall 

128.  In the event of a serious accident in the European Union, the vehicle automatically triggers an eCall to 
112, the EU-wide emergency number (see section 1.3 for further details) which allows an ambulance 
to be sent the place of the accident promptly according to regulation EU 2015/758 of 29 April 2015 
concerning type-approval requirements for the deployment of the eCall in-vehicle system based on 
the 112 service, and amending Directive 2007/46/EC. 

129.  Indeed, the eCall generator installed inside the vehicle, which enables transmission via a public mobile 
wireless communications network initiates an emergency call, which is either triggered automatically 
by vehicle sensors or manually by the vehicle occupants only in the event of an accident. In addition 
to activation of the audio channel, the second event triggered automatically as a result of an accident 
consists in generating the Minimum Set of Data (MSD) and sending it to the public safety answering 
point (PSAP).   

3.2.1  Legal basis  

130.  Regarding the application of the “ePrivacy” directive, two provisions have to be considered:  

−  art.  9  regarding  location  data  other  than  traffic  data  which  only  applies  to  electronic 

communication services. ; 

−  art.  5(3)  for  the  gaining  access  to  information  stored  in  the  generator  installed  inside  the 

vehicle.  

131.  Despite the fact that, in principle, those provisions require the consent of the data subject, regulation 
EU 2015/758 of 29 April 2015 constitutes a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject (the 
data subject has no genuine or free choice and will be unable to refuse the processing of his/her data). 
Hence,  regulation  EU  2015/758  overrides  the  need  of  the  driver’s  consent  for  the  processing  of 
location data and the MSD.29 

132.  The legal basis of the processing of those data will be compliance with a legal obligation as provided 

for in art. 6(1)(c) GDPR (i.e., regulation EU 2015/758). 

3.2.2  Data collected  

133.  Regulation EU 2015/578 provides that data sent by the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system shall include 
only  the  minimum  information  as  referred  to  in  the  standard  EN  15722:2015  ‘Intelligent  transport 
systems — eSafety — eCall minimum set of data (MSD)’ including:  

− 

the indication if eCall has been manually or automatically triggered ;  

− 

the vehicle type ;  

− 

the vehicle identification number (VIN) ;  

− 

the propulsion type of the vehicle ;  

 

29 It has to be noted that Article 8-1-f of the last version of the working document of the proposal for an 
“ePrivacy” regulation does provide a specific exemption for eCall as consent is not needed when “it is necessary 
to locate terminal equipment when an end-user makes an emergency communication either to the single 
European emergency number ‘112’ or a national emergency number, in accordance with Article 13(3).” 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

25 

 

− 

the timestamp of the initial data message generation within the current eCall incident event ;  

− 

− 

the  last  known  vehicle  latitude  and  longitude  position  determined  at  the  latest  moment 
possible before message generation ;  

the  vehicle’s  last  known  real  direction  of  travel  determined  at  the  latest  moment  possible 
before message generation (only the last three locations of the vehicle). 

3.2.3  Retention period  

134.  EU regulation 2015/758 of 29 April 2015 stipulates that data shall not be retained for longer than is 
needed for processing emergency situations. Those data shall be completely deleted when they are no 
longer needed for that purpose. Furthermore, in the internal memory of the eCall system, data shall 
be automatically and constantly deleted. Only the vehicle’s last three positions can be stored, insofar 
as it is strictly necessary to specify the current position of the vehicle and the direction of travel at the 
time of the event. 

3.2.4 

Information and rights of data subjects 

135.  Art. 6 of the EU regulation 2015/758 of 29 April 2015 stipulates that manufacturers shall provide clear 
and complete information on data processing done using the eCall system. This information shall be 
provided in the owner's manual separately for the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system and any third 
party service supported eCall systems prior to the use of the system. It includes: 

− 

the reference to the legal basis for the processing;  

− 

the fact that the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system is activated by default;  

− 

the arrangements for data processing that the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system performs; 

− 

the specific purpose of the eCall processing, which shall be limited to the emergency situations 
referred to in the first subparagraph of Art. 5(2);  

− 

the types of data collected and processed and the recipients of that data;  

− 

the time limit for the retention of data in the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system;  

− 

the fact that there is no constant tracking of the vehicle; 

− 

the arrangements for exercising data subjects' rights as well as the contact service responsible 
for handling access requests; 

−  any  necessary  additional  information  regarding  traceability,  tracking  and  processing  of 
personal data in relation to the provision of a TPS eCall and/or other added value services, 
which  shall  be  subject  to  explicit  consent  by  the  owner  and  in  compliance  with  the  GDPR. 
Particular  account  shall  be  taken  of  the  fact  that  differences  may  exist  between  the  data 
processing  carried  out  through  the  112-based  eCall  in-vehicle  system  and  the  TPS  eCall  in-
vehicle systems or other added value services. 

136.  Furthermore, the service provider shall also provide the data subjects with information in accordance 
with art. 13 GDPR in a transparent and understandable way. In particular, he or she must be informed 
of the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as the fact that the 
processing of personal data is based on a legal obligation to which the controller is subject.  

137.  In addition, taking into account the nature of the processing, the information about the recipients or 
categories of recipients of the personal data must be clear and the data subjects should be informed 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

26 

 

that the data are not be available outside the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system to any entities before 
the eCall is triggered.  

138.  Regarding  rights  of  data  subjects,  it  has  to  be  noted  that  since  the  processing  is  based  on  a  legal 

obligation, the right to object and the right to portability will not apply.  

3.2.5  Recipient:  

139.  The data shall not be available outside the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system to any entities before the 

eCall is triggered. 

140.  When it is triggered (either manually by vehicle occupants or automatically as soon as an in-vehicle 
sensor detects a serious collision), the eCall system establishes a voice connection with the relevant 
PSAP and the MSD is sent to the PSAP operator.  

141.  Furthermore, data transmitted via the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system and processed by the PSAPs 
can  be  transferred  to  the  emergency  service  and  service  partners  referred  to  in  Decision  No 
585/2014/EU only in the event of incidents related to eCalls and under the conditions set out in that 
Decision and are used exclusively for the attainment of the objectives of that Decision. Data processed 
by  the  PSAPs  through  the  112-based  eCall  in-vehicle  system  are  not  transferred  to  any  other  third 
parties without the explicit prior consent of the data subject. 

3.2.6  Security 

142.  EU regulation 2015/758 stipulates the requirements to incorporate into the eCall system technologies 
that strengthen the protection of privacy, in order to offer users the appropriate level of protection of 
privacy,  as  well  as  the  guarantees  needed  to  prevent  surveillance  and  abusive  uses.  In  addition, 
manufacturers shall ensure that the eCall system based on the number 112, as well as any other system 
providing an eCall that is handled by third-party services or an added-value service, are so designed 
that it is impossible for personal data to be exchanged between those systems. 

143.  Regarding  PSAPs,  Member  States  shall  ensure  that  personal  data  are  protected  against  misuse, 
including  unlawful  access,  alteration  or  loss,  and  that  protocols  concerning  personal  data  storage, 
retention duration, processing and protection are established at the appropriate level and properly 
observed. 

3.3  Accidentology studies  

144.  Data  subjects  may  voluntarily  agree  to  take  part  in  accidentology  studies  aimed  at  better 

understanding the causes of road accidents and more generally scientific purposes. 

3.3.1  Legal basis  

145.  When the data are collected through a public electronic communication service, the data controller 
will have to collect the consent of the data subject  for the gaining of access to information that is 
already stored in the vehicle as provided by art. 5(3) of the “ePrivacy” directive. Indeed, none of the 
exemptions provided by those provisions can apply in this context: the processing is not for the sole 
purpose  of  carrying  out  the  transmission  of  a  communication  over  an  electronic  communications 
network nor does it relate to an information society service explicitly requested by the subscriber or 
user. 

146.  Regarding the processing of personal data and taking into account the variety and amount of personal 
data needed for accidentology studies, prior consent of the data subject should be collected according 
to art. 6 GDPR. Such prior consent must be provided on a specific form, through which the data subject 
volunteers to take part to the study and have his or her personal data processed for that purpose. 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

27 

 

Consent shall be an expression of the free, specific, and informed will of the person whose data are 
being  processed  (e.g.,  ticking  a  box that  is  not  pre-ticked,  or  configuring  the  onboard  computer  to 
activate a function in the vehicle). Such consent must be provided separately, for specific purposes, 
may not be bundled with the contract to buy or lease a new car and the consent must be as easily 
withdrawn as it is given. Withdrawal of consent shall lead to the processing being stopped. The data 
shall then be deleted from the active database, or anonymised.  

147.  Consent required by art. 5(3) of the “ePrivacy” directive and consent needed as a legal basis for the 
processing of data can be collected at the same time (for example by checking a box clearly indicating 
what the data subject is consenting to). 

3.3.2  Data collected  

148.  The data controller shall only collect personal data that are strictly necessary for the processing.  

149.  There is two types of data to be considered:  

−  data relating to participants and vehicles ;  

− 

technical data from vehicles (instantaneous speed, etc.).  

150.  Scientific research linked to accidentology justifies the collection of the instantaneous speed, including 

by legal persons who do not administer a public service in the strict sense. 

151.  Indeed, as noted above, the EDPB considers that instantaneous speed collected in the context of an 
accidentology study is not offence-related data by destination (i.e., it is not being collected for the 
purpose of investigating or prosecuting an offence), which justifies its collection by legal persons who 
do not administer a public service in the strict sense.  

3.3.3  Retention period 

152.  It is important to distinguish between two types of data. First, the data relating to participants and 
vehicles can be retained for the duration of the study. Second, the technical data from vehicles may 
not be retained for more than five years from the end date of the study. At the end of that period, the 
data shall be deleted or anonymised. 

3.3.4 

Information and rights of data subjects 

153.  Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject shall be informed according to art. 13 GDPR, 
in a transparent and understandable way. In particular, in the case of collecting instantaneous speed, 
the data subjects shall be specifically informed of the data collection. Since the data processing is based 
on consent, the data subject must be specifically informed of the existence of the right to withdraw 
consent  at  any  time,  without  affecting  the  lawfulness  of  processing  based  on  consent  before  its 
withdrawal. Moreover, because the data collected in this context are provided by the  data subject 
(through specific forms or through his or her activity) and processed on the basis of art. 6(1)(a) GDPR 
(consent), the data subject is entitled to exercise his or her right to data portability. As emphasized in 
the guidelines on the right to data portability, the EDPB strongly recommends, “that data controllers 
clearly explain the difference between the types of data that a data subject can receive through the 
rights of subject access and data portability”. Consequently, the data controller must provide an easy 
way to withdraw his consent, freely and at any time, as well as develop tools to be able to answer data 
portability requests. 

154.  That information can be given on signing the form to agree to take part in the accidentology study. 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

28 

 

3.3.5  Recipient 

155.  In principle, only the data controller and the data processor have access to the data.  

3.3.6  Security 

156.  As noted above, the security measures put in place shall be adapted to the level of data sensitivity. For 
instance,  if  instantaneous  speed  (or  any  other  data  related  to criminal  convictions  and  offences)  is 
collected as part of the accidentology study, the EDPB strongly recommends putting in place strong 
security measures, such as:  

− 

− 

implementing  pseudonymisation  measures  (e.g.,  secret-key  hashing  of  data  like  the 
surname/first name of the data subject and the serial number);  

storing data relating to instantaneous speed and to geolocation in separate databases (e.g., 
using a state-of-the-art encryption mechanism with distinct keys and approval mechanisms);  

−  and/or deleting geolocation data as soon as the reference event or sequence is qualified (e.g., 
the type of road, day/night), and the storage of directly-identifying data in a separate database 
that can only be accessed by a small number of people. 

3.4  Tackle auto theft  

157.  Data subjects may wish, in the case of theft, to attempt to find their vehicle using geolocation. Using 
location  data  is  limited  to  the  strict  needs  of  the  investigation  and  to  the  case  assessment  by  the 
competent legal authorities. 

3.4.1  Legal basis 

158.  When the data is collected through a publicly available electronic communication service, art. 5(3) of 

the “ePrivacy” directive applies.  

159.  Because this is an information society service,  art. 5(3)  of the “ePrivacy” directive does not require 
consent for gaining access to information that is already stored in the vehicle when such a service is 
explicitly requested by the subscriber. 

160.  Regarding the processing of personal data the legal basis is the consent of the vehicle’s owner, or, if 
applicable, the performance of a contract (only for data necessary for the performance of the contract 
to which the vehicle’s owner is party). 

161.  Consent shall be an expression of the free, specific, and informed will of the person whose data are 
being  processed  (e.g.,  ticking  a  box that  is  not  pre-ticked,  or  configuring  the  onboard  computer  to 
activate a function in the vehicle). Freedom to give consent involves the option of withdrawing consent 
at any time, of which the data subject shall be expressly informed. Withdrawal of consent shall lead to 
the processing being stopped. The data shall then be deleted from the active database, anonymised, 
or archived.  

3.4.2  Data collected 

162.  Location  data  can  only  be  transmitted  as  of  the  declaration  of  theft,  and  cannot  be  collected 

continuously the rest of the time. 

3.4.3  Retention period 

163.  Location data can only be retained for the period during which the case is assessed by the competent 
legal authorities, or until the end of a procedure to dispel doubt that does not end with confirmation 
of the theft of the vehicle. 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

29 

 

3.4.4 

Information of the data subjects 

164.  Prior to the processing of personal data, the data subject shall be informed according to art. 13 GDPR, 
in  a  transparent  and  understandable  way.  More  specifically,  the  EDPB  recommends  that  the  data 
controller emphasizes that there is no constant tracking of the vehicle and that location data can only 
be collected and transmitted as of the declaration of theft. Moreover, the controller must provide the 
data  subject  with  information  relating  to  the  fact  that  only  approved  officers  of  the  remote-
surveillance platform and legally approved authorities have access to the data.  

165.  Regarding  the  rights  of  the  data  subjects,  when  the  data  processing  is  based  on  consent,  the  data 
subject must be specifically informed of the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, 
without affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal. Besides, when 
the data collected in this context are provided by them (through specific forms or through his or her 
activity) and processed on the basis of art. 6(1)(a) (consent) or  art. 6.1.(b) GDPR (performance of a 
contract), the data subject is entitled to exercise his or her right to data portability. As emphasized in 
the guidelines on the right to data portability, the EDPB strongly recommends, “that data controllers 
clearly explain the difference between the types of data that a data subject can receive through the 
rights of subject access and data portability”.  

166.  Consequently,  the  data  controller  must  provide  an  easy  way  to  withdraw  his  consent  (only  when 
consent is the legal basis), freely and at any time, as well as develop tools to be able to answer data 
portability requests. 

167.  The information can be provided when the contract is signed. 

3.4.5  Recipients  

168.  In  the  event  of  a theft  declaration,  location  data  can  be  passed  on  the  (i)  approved  officers  of  the 

remote-surveillance platform, and (ii) to the legally approved authorities. 

3.4.6  Security 

169.  General recommendations apply. See section 2.7 

3.5  Personal information stored on rental cars’ dashboard 

170.  When renting a vehicle, data subjects may want to use its in-car entertainment capacities, for instance 
to navigate to a given destination, to give a phone call or to play some music. A variety of technical 
means can be relied upon to do so and there is a risk that data relating to previous occupants of the 
vehicle are visible to subsequent users.  

3.5.1  Data collected  

171.  A variety of data can be processed in rental cars’ dashboard. Those data could be processed:  

−  when a data subject’s smartphone is paired with the rental car’s dashboard, for instance using 

Bluetooth or USB connections (phone identifiers, voice and data communications, etc.) ;  

−  when the driver or the passenger use the rental cars’ dashboard (GPS navigation history, web 

browsing, and a growing range of applications).  

172.  Hence, the data generated can reveal personal information (web browsing data, personal contacts and 
schedules, choice of music, radio and other streamed audio or video content, etc.) and help to draw a 
precise profile of the data subject.30 

30 Privacy international, Connected Cars: What Happens To Our Data On Rental Cars?; 
https://privacyinternational.org/sites/default/files/2017-12/cars_briefing.pdf 

 

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

30 

 

173.  Since rental companies have effective control over the processing, they should be regarded as the data 
controller of the information, which resides on the car’s dashboard they rent. As such, they have the 
responsibility  to  ensure  the  confidentiality  of  the  data  and  compliance  with  data  protection 
requirements.  

3.5.2 

Information of data subjects  

174.  To allow users to exercise effective control over their data, rental companies must provide clear and 
explicit information to customers  in relation to what data that is likely to be processed locally, the 
purpose of the processing, and the option to, at all times, deactivate data collection and delete the 
data concerned. For example, if the car’s dashboard is  equipped with a “delete button”, the rental 
companies must draw the attention of the customer on this functionality.   

3.5.3  Retention period  

175.  The EDPB recommends that manufacturers provide a simple functionality (such as a delete button) 

enabling data subjects to quickly and easily remove their personal data from the car’s dashboard.   

176.  Rental  companies  shall  define  clear  internal  procedures  to  erase  personal  data  stored  on  the  car’s 

dashboard before the vehicle can be rented again.  

3.5.4  Security  

177.  Rental companies shall ensure that the permissions setting on the rental car’s dashboard is compliant 
with the principle of privacy by design and by default (having settings that prevents third parties from 
processing data generated by the car’s dashboard unless they have the user's consent to enable third 
party access to that data for a specified purpose).  

Adopted - version for public consultation 

 

31 

