1/20

 Procedure No.: PS/00091/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 (hereinafter, the claimant) with
date 05/07/2019 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data. The claim is directed against GIRONA INTEGRAL EXPRESS, S.L. with NIF
B17770991 (hereinafter GIEXPRESS), for
the following facts according to
statements of the claimant: That on 03/19/2019 the Environment technician of the
City Hall of ***LOCALIDAD.1 located a waste dump outside the
containers with garbage remains, delivery notes and documentation of delivery of
parcel of the company TIPSA GIRONA (a total of 212 pages) in which they appear
names, surnames, DNI and address of natural persons.
The city council required an audience with the person in charge of said company to collect the
documentation and give it the appropriate treatment. That he has not appeared within the term
required.
And, among other things, attach the following documentation:

Photographs of the containers with garbage outside of them.


 Copy of the request from the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1 to the respondent

dated 03/27/2019.

 Acknowledgment of receipt of the request with acceptance date 03/29/2019 by Mr.

A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1.

 Copy of the delivery notes and delivery documentation from TIPSA GIRONA where
contain data of name, surnames, NIF, postal address and telephone number of
contact of natural persons.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 04/22/2019, the complaint was transferred to TRANSPORTE INTEGRAL DE
PAQUETERIA, S.A., in the proceedings with reference E/05813/2019.

On 07/12/2019, TRANSPORTE INTEGRAL DE PAQUETERIA, S.A. refer to
this Agency the following information and statements:

1. That in order to provide its services, its business model is
focused on the creation of a national distribution network of agencies of
merchandise transports.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/20

2. That TRANSPORTE INTEGRAL DE PAQUETERIA, S.A. proceeds to the signing of

a contract with all existing agencies.
A collaboration contract is provided between TRANSPORTE INTEGRAL DE
PACKAGE, S.A. and GIEXPRESS dated 10/21/2004. In your clause
seventh is manifested:
“SEVENTH.- This contract does not constitute a corporate or agency relationship,
company or joint or joint activity between TIPSA and GIE, maintaining
each of the parts its full independent and differentiated personality
legal, capacity to act, activity, development and operation,
responding, above all, as far as GIE is concerned, of all the consequences
derived from its industry or business, whose risk and venture fully assumes
with total indemnity from TIPSA, which must be protected from third parties of
any harmful consequence derived from their own actions or their
personal or attributable to him for any reason, including agreements or
pacts that it concludes with those, responding with unlimited character for
all this, including in the scope of its responsibility the damages and
own damages and damages to third parties in personnel, facilities and properties.
As an obvious consequence of the foregoing, this contract does not imply a bond or
employment relationship of any kind, principal, joint or subsidiary between TIPSA and
GIE and its staff, who will assume and be responsible for everything
entails or is inherent to their own employment status and that of their workers or
dependents, regardless of the nature of the relationship that unites him with
they...
In order for the TIPSA agreed waiver of liability to take place,
GIE, undertakes to state before its staff, third parties and organizations
who is solely responsible for the activity carried out in
performance of this contract, and that TIPSA bears no responsibility.”
Novation of the collaboration contract signed on 10/21/2004 is provided
between TIPSA and GIEXPRESS dated 05/01/2008. In its fifth clause in
in relation to the protection of personal data and commitments of
confidentiality, it is stated:
“In relation to the data provided by TIPS@ to GIEXPRES, the former has the
condition of responsible for the file that will be constituted with the data processed
and GIEXPRES will hold the status of data processor...
In relation to the data provided by GIEXPRES, to TIPS@, the former has the
condition of responsible for the file that will be constituted with the data processed
and TIPS@ will hold the status of data processor...
Likewise, both parties undertake to deal with the maximum
confidentiality how much personal data is provided with
reason for this service contract, committing to treat them as
in accordance with the measures established in the current regulations for the protection of
data as well as to adopt in the future as many security measures as are
required by laws and regulations intended to preserve secrecy,
confidentiality and integrity in automated data processing
personal.
….
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/20

Both parties undertake to inform their staff, collaborators and
subcontractors of the obligations established in this contract on
confidentiality, as well as the obligations related to data processing
of a personal nature GIEXPRES and TIPS@, will carry out as many warnings and
will sign as many documents as necessary with their staff and
collaborators, in order to ensure compliance with such obligations.
Once the established contractual provision has been fulfilled, both parties
oblige with respect to the other to destroy or return all data, media or
documents held by the counterparty, including all data of a nature
personnel object of the treatment that at that time were in their possession,
except those that by legal imperative have to be preserved.”

1. States, among others, that the following decisions have been made:

a. Review of the service lease contract signed with

GIEXPRESS.

b. Review of whether the contents of training in the field of Protection of

Data is adjusted to the entity's operations.

2. Provide the answer sent by GIEXPRESS to TIPSA as an attachment to the email
email sent by ***EMAIL.1 dated 06/25/2019 and the following
manifestations:

a. That the company they have contracted for the periodic collection of
waste of organic matter, plastic and paper is RECOVERIES
MARCEL I NAVARRO FILLS, S.L. with NIF B17255639.

b. That your company has never deposited delivery notes or documentation of
customers anywhere other than at your facility for your
destruction.

c. That the only explanation they find for this incident is that a
supplier of your company has deposited the documents in the
container of ***LOCATION.1.

d. States that in relation to the receipt of the electronic notification
by the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1, there was a bad
channeling of the mail received in ***EMAIL.2, being the mail that
have to receive telematic notifications from some
agency such as Treasury, Social Security or others the following;
***EMAIL.1, which is your personal email and, understanding, that it was a
sanction by some radar he forwarded it to his advisor from the account
***EMAIL.2 and his advisor responded to that same account, losing
so the track.

and. Who understand that everything has been a human error on the part of their
supplier who was unaware of the causes on the law of protection of
personal information.

F. That for their part they will proceed to review the processes of this type of
documents so that no one is lost at any time
delivery note. That in fact, this is already impossible to happen since their
providers no longer carry physical sheets but go with telephones
mobiles.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/20

3. That they requested GIEXPRESS the contract with the supplier that is in charge of
the documentary destruction but it has not been sent to them for what they suppose that
this contract does not exist.

4. That they have proceeded to adopt the following measures:

a. That an organizational restructuring has been carried out within the
your entity to integrate surveillance and compliance in terms of
data protection within the legal or compliance department
regulations from the quality department where he was.

b. That, in the face of contractual breaches detected by
GIEXPRESS. a proceeding will be opened
clearance of responsibilities to it.

c. They state:

“TIPSA has given instructions to its department of
Computing to enable a specific online platform in
compliance with Data Protection, as already exists
in terms of compliance in labor matters, in which they will have access
all those third parties that work for TIPSA, which must
attach in it all those documents that prove that
they comply with all those points that the same platform will anger them
requesting automatically, in order to be able to justify a
truest way, that each company has the guarantees
legal requirements requested by TIPSA to be able to work, such as by
example, having a Record of Activities, complying with the duty
of information, have a Risk analysis carried out,
Impact Assessments, International Data Transfers, etc.
etc..
Thus, if at the moment that the same platform detects that it is not
find all the requested Documentation, or it is incorrect, for
part of it, a signal or distinctive sign will be elaborated by which
will be notified in order to request said documentation and if the lack or error
in the documentation persists over time, proceed even by
of TIPSA to the resolution of the corresponding contracts that
remained in force or the impossibility of contracting with it.”

5. Provides a signed contract for the processing of character data
personnel dated 05/25/2018 between INTEGRAL TRANSPORT OF
PACKAGE, S.A. and GIEXPRESS where it is collected:

a.

b.

“In relation to the data provided by TIPSA to GIRONA INTEGRAL
EXPRESS, S.L., the former has the status of Responsible for
File that is constituted with the processed data and GIRONA INTEGRAL
EXPRESS, S.L will hold the status of Treatment Manager…”
“In relation to the data provided by GIRONA INTEGRAL EXPRESS,
SL to TIPSA, the former has the status of Responsible for the File
that is constituted with the processed data and TIPSA will hold the
Condition of Treatment Manager…”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/20

c.

d.

and.

F.

“In particular, the person in charge of the treatment will apply the measures of
technical and organizational security detailed in Appendix I of the
this Agreement.”
“…the Manager guarantees the Manager that his staff as well as
The persons authorized to process the Personal Data are
undertake, expressly and in writing, to respect the
confidentiality and compliance
security measures
corresponding, of which it is necessary to inform them conveniently,
keeping the documentation available to the Responsible
proof of compliance with this obligation. Likewise,
guarantees the necessary training in the field of personal data protection.
its personnel and of the persons authorized to treat the Data of
personal character."
“Once the provision of the Services has been completed, the Person in Charge of the
treatment will destroy or return to the person in charge of the treatment or to the
manager who designates in writing the Responsible for the aforementioned Data
of a personal nature (as indicated by the Responsible), as well as
any support or documents containing the Data of
personal character object of treatment within the framework of this
Contract.
If the person in charge opts for the destruction by the person in charge of the
treatment of personal data as well as any
support or documents containing the Character Data
personnel, the person in charge of the treatment must certify its destruction
written…"
“The person in charge of the treatment recognizes the person in charge of the treatment
the power to subcontract with third parties, in whole or in part, the
Services object of this Contract.”

g. Provides Appendix I of the contract with the following security measures

technical and organizational among others:

Yo.

ii.

iii.

“The person responsible for the file or treatment will adopt the measures
necessary for the staff to know in a way
understandable safety regulations affecting the development
of its functions as well as the consequences in which it could
incur in case of non-compliance.”
“Whenever any document or support is to be discarded
that contains personal data must proceed to
its destruction or erasure, through the adoption of measures
aimed at preventing access to the information contained in the
itself or its subsequent recovery.”
“While the documentation with personal data does not
is stored on storage devices
established in the previous article, for being in the process of
review or processing, either prior to or after filing, the
person in charge of it must
guard it and prevent it from being accessed at all times
by unauthorized person.”

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

6/20

6. Document “Operating manual instruction / Delivery of shipments
operational” dated 01/01/2019 whose scope, as stated in the
document, is all the TIPSA agencies and where in its section “3.10
Digitization and Filing of Delivery Notes” includes:

a.

In order to comply with current legal regulations on
claim deadlines for transport services, the destination agency
undertakes to digitally file in its facilities all
delivery notes of the shipments entrusted to you by the Tipsa Network for
its distribution, at least for 24 months. The destination agency will be
responsible for maintaining due diligence in the custody and
conservation of said delivery notes, for compliance with third parties and
judicial and/or administrative bodies of the legal obligations of
exhibition of these documents before them.”

7. Survey completed by GIEXPRESS on May 25, 2018 is provided
in whose header appears the title "AUDIT MEASURES IMPLEMENTED IN
YOUR COMPANY ABOUT CHARACTER DATA PROTECTION
PERSONAL” and where this entity states that:

a.

 Workers have been informed in accordance with the new regulations on
Data Protection.

b. Rules have been defined for the destruction of data carriers and

documents.

On 01/27/2020, GIEXPRESS sends this Agency the following information and
manifestations:

1. That they became aware of the incident on June 18, 2019 through

from a TIPSA statement.

2. That the carrier that caused the incident was hired as a reinforcement given

the increase in the volume of work in that period.

3. It states that “…conversations were held with the carrier
involved, to determine the motivation for the irregular deposit of the
documentation outside the container, on public roads. This entity, after
investigation of the event, concluded that said carrier, for
unaware, proceeded to improperly dispose of it in the
understanding that they would be disposed of by the municipal collection service.
This entity concluded that it was a human error due to lack of diligence,
without the appearance of bad faith or intent to harm data privacy
contained in said documents and without giving rise to any benefit
economic cost of such action for the responsible carrier.”

1. That the identification of the carrier that discarded the documents is D.

BBB with NIF ***NIF.2.

2. In relation to the carrier that discarded the documents, it states that “This

employee has not undergone data protection training.”

3. That said carrier had the information in physical documentation because in
At the time of the incident, the management of delivery notes and deliveries was in a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/20

moment of technological adaptation and was still in the process of change
from physical documentation to the use of a mobile application.

4. That said process of technological innovation in the way of managing
delivery notes was launched on May 6, 2019 until July 9, 2019
moment from which the physical documentation was completely dispensed with.
5. That prior to the actual knowledge of the incident they already had a
provider of periodic collection services at its facilities with
RECUPERACIONS MARCEL I NAVARRO FILLS, S.L using containers
sealed for the introduction of documentation with personal data or
confidential. That said contract is still in force today.
A signed contract dated January 2, 2019 is provided, according to its translation
unofficial of the Catalan, of waste treatment with the company
RECOVERIES MARCEL I NAVARRO FILLS, S.L
OBSERVATIONS: Said contract does not seem to include the destruction of
documents.

1. That your entity had a data protection consultant.
A contract signed on May 21, 2018 for the commissioning of
treatment with CENSOR CONSULTING, S.L. being the files included in
the order of Human Resources, Payroll and personnel and curriculum vitae
and the service provided is that of "LOPD Consultant".

2. That they had already transferred to the employees a Commitment to

Confidentiality and an Internal Communication.
Documents dated May 21, 2018 and signed by 13
employees regarding Information to Users and the duty of professional secrecy
where it is stated that:
“The supports that contain the data of the File must be stored
in places to which unauthorized persons do not have access for the use of the
File."
OBSERVATION: This document is not signed by the carrier
identified that discarded the documents.

3. That on July 8, 2019, the following document was sent to

the entire template.
An Internal Circular signed by employees, undated and in relation to the
data protection, in which it establishes in point 2:
“Disclosure of processed personal data should be avoided, remaining
The unauthorized transfer of any of them is expressly prohibited.
…
Any document that can be made within the facilities of
GIEXPRES with personal data must be deposited in the
sealed container for proper subsequent destruction.
OBSERVATION: This document is not signed by the carrier
identified that discarded the documents.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/20

4. That in April 2019 a consultant specializing in the
regulatory compliance contracting the service of adaptation to the regulations
in force regarding data protection.
A copy of the contract signed and dated April 25, 2019 is provided with the
company PROFESSIONAL GROUP CONVERSIA, S.L.U.

5. That they proceeded to document the incident on June 19, 2019
concluding that it was not proceeded to communicate it to this Agency or to the
interested.
Provide a copy of the document entitled "Communication Model of the
Resolution before the Violation or Security Breach” dated June 19,
2019 and addressed to GIEXPRESS where in the section "Conclusion of the analysis of
the operation” it is stated that:
“-In accordance with article 4 section 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal information and the free circulation of these data and by which the
Directive 951461CE (hereinafter RGPD) is a security violation
due to an accidental loss of personal data.
-It may involve unauthorized access to personal data.
-Taking into account the volume of files and people affected, the type
of data and the impact (exposure) is not reported to the
Control Authority nor the communication to those affected by the incident of
security."
The “Actions Carried Out” section includes:
“-The security breach has been documented in accordance with the
article 33.5 RGPD
-Assessment and Analysis of the incidence to verify the probability that the
violation constitutes a risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical
-No notification to the control authority as established in article
33 of the RGPD and the analysis carried out”

6. That the remote training service in Privacy and Information Management was contracted.

Information as of July 23, 2019 for two workers.
A copy of the signed contract dated July 23, 2019 is provided in which
section of "Object of the contract" is collected "TELEFORMATION VIA
ELECTRONICS THROUGH A TRAINING PLATFORM” and the section on
“contracted courses” includes the course with the title “Privacy and management of the
information” with a duration of 56 h.

7. That on January 20, 2020, all employees have been notified
of a Communiqué in order to reinforce the importance of diligence in
the processing of personal data.

8. A Record of Activities is provided, composed exclusively of the following

sections:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/20

a. In relation to the data of the data controller and his delegate

data protection:

Yo. Commercial and contact data of the person in charge of the

Treatment.

ii. Data of the Data Protection Delegate.

b. In relation to the data of the person in charge of the treatment and his delegate of

Data Protection:

Yo. Commercial and contact data of the Treatment Manager.
ii. Data of the Data Protection Delegate.

c. In relation to international data transfers:
Identification of the country and international organization.

Yo.

d. In relation to security measures.

Yo. Security measures implemented for this treatment.

9. Risk analysis and management is provided dated June 13, 2019 where

pick up:

a. In the section “Identification of data processing

personal” among others include “Management of shipments and deliveries”.

b. In the section “Initially Planned Measures” in relation to the
"Management of shipments and deliveries" lists the measures planned
initially that, among others, consist of:

Yo. In relation to the potential risk scenario with code RO.01 and
description “The general regulation on the right to
to the protection of personal data” it is collected that
“There is NO document available that reflects the measures
of security that the company must adopt to minimize the
risks,..:”

ii. In relation to the potential risk scenario with code ROS.05
and description “There is unauthorized access to personal data” is
states that "NO security measures have been implemented, nor
physical or computerized, to the information systems for
prevent unauthorized access”

iii. In relation to the potential risk scenario with code ROS.08
and description “There is an inability to detect and manage
incidents that affect data security” it is collected that
“There is NO procedure to detect and manage
information security incidents or breaches.

IV. In relation to the potential risk scenario with code RDL.04
and description “Violation of the secrecy of communications” is
states that "The staff has NOT formalized the commitment to
confidentiality on the part of the organization.

10. That within the office there are sealed deposits to introduce
any document where personal data may work. that despite not

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/20

There should still be a formal and written procedure provided to employees for the
destruction of supports and documents, the employees were transferred a
Communiqué with the purpose of reinforcing the importance of diligence in the
processing of personal data expressly stating instructions for
the destruction of documentation.

11. That no audit was carried out with the previous consultant. Within
the hiring of the consultant specialized in the protection of
data is audited in the second year.

On January 28, 2020, TIPSA sends this Agency the following information
and demonstrations:
1. That, having carried out the appropriate investigations, it has been possible to verify the following:

“-Of all the information received or known prior to the
Incident related to compliance with data protection regulations
data by GIEXPRESS and, as no type of data has been detected
of anomaly on its part, it could not be glimpsed by TIPSA such
lack of diligence on the part of the treatment manager.
…
-This is an isolated incident, no other employee has performed or
is performing similar behavior.
-Regarding the degree of intentionality, none has been detected.
cause or special condition that could motivate the production of the
reported facts.
-Similarly, no recurrence can be appreciated, as it is the first
incident/non-compliance verified.”

2. That the security measures implemented prior to the incident,
are among others:

“Prior to May 25, 2018, TIPSA carried out a process of
adaptation to the RGPD in which it implemented a specific system of
compliance with the aforementioned regulations, carrying out by the entity the
identification, review and adequacy of character data processing
staff.
As a result of this process, a documentary was prepared that forms the
basis of the organization's Compliance System, composed, among others,
by the following elements:
-Record of treatment activities carried out by TIPSA.

-Analysis of prior risks of each and every data processing
carried out by TIPSA, and definition of technical security measures and
organizations to apply.
-Model contracts to regularize the relationship with third parties that have
access to data of a personality nature that is the responsibility of TIPSA.
-Models of confidentiality agreements and duty of secrecy to be signed with
personnel with access to data (authorized personnel) and without access to data
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

11/20

(unauthorized personnel), in which the obligations of
confidentiality and secrecy, as well as data processing protocols
personal.
-Information clauses drafted ad hoc to comply with the duty of
transparency and information of each treatment.
-Specific protocols and procedures to guarantee, internally and
externally, among others, the exercise and attention to the rights of
interested; the notification and management of incidents and security violations;
the contracting of third parties with access to data; authorization management
and access control; data retention and secure destruction; the
staff education and training.
-Assessment of the need to carry out Impact Assessments on the
Data Protection (EIPD) of the treatments.
…
Prior to the knowledge of the incidence that occupies us the present
report, TIPSA had implemented, among others, the following measures of
security (organizational and technical) with respect to GIEXPRESS and all
third parties with access to data on behalf of TIPSA:
-Establishment of an internal procedure to guarantee the signing of the
corresponding treatment commission contract in the terms
established by data protection legislation with suppliers with
Data access.
-Contractual establishment of a communication protocol with the
in charge of treatment to guarantee the exercise and attention to the
rights of the interested parties, and the notification and management of incidents and
security breaches.
-Contractual establishment of the specific security measures to
implemented by third parties with access to data to guarantee the
confidentiality, integrity and availability of personal data.
-Contractual establishment of mechanisms for supervision, verification and
auditing of processing entrusted to third parties.
-Establishment of internal procedures to communicate and raise awareness
on the different instructions to be used in data processing
(from collection to destruction), both by staff
own and by third parties.
…”

3. That an action plan has been undertaken with a series of measures to be carried out
cape:

a. Measures of immediate application, among others:

“-Establishment of mechanisms for supervision, verification and
auditing of processing entrusted to third parties to
verify that they comply with the stipulations of the contract.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/20

-Review of the risk analysis carried out regarding the treatment
where the incident occurred, in order to document a
increase the probability and define new measures of
security based on the detected risk.
-Review of the clauses set forth in the order contract
of the treatment, in order to guarantee the correct fulfillment
of the instructions provided by TIPSA and the adoption of the
adequate security measures.
-Requirement to GIEXPRESS of subscription/renewal of the
confidentiality commitments with all its employees
(authorized personnel), in order to be formally notified
and make them aware of the obligations of secrecy and
confidentiality they have on the data of character
staff, to comply with the corresponding security measures
and the consequences of its non-compliance.
-Request and review of the agreements signed by GIEXPRESS,
as person in charge of processing personal data
responsibility of TIPSA, with those subcontractors
affected by this claim, in order to verify that
conform to the same conditions established in the contract
of order of the treatment signed between TIPSA and GIEXPRESS.”

a. Measures in the process of application, among others:

“-Process of digitalization of paper documents and use of
portable devices (POA, tablets...) that have measures
adequate security measures to ensure confidentiality,
integrity and availability of the data housed in said
devices.
-Establishment of mechanisms for supervision, verification and
auditing those in charge of treatment to verify that everything
their subcontractor complies with the instructions and,
especially, the security measures, arranged by TIPSA
in the treatment order contract signed between TIPSA and
the treatment manager.
-Review of training content in the field of
Data Protection, in order to assess whether they comply with the
entity's operations.
…
-Establishment of training accreditation mechanisms
in terms of data protection given to its staff by
those in charge of treatment.”
1. Provides a Record of Treatment Activities.
2. Provides analysis and risk management.
3. Provides an analysis of the need to carry out an EIPD with the conclusion of “..no
it is considered necessary to carry out an EIPD for not complying with two or
more criteria from the treatment list that require EIPD referred to in
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

13/20

article 35.4 RGPD and for not meeting any of the other criteria
significantly analyzed, which makes it unlikely that the treatment
by its nature, scope, context or purposes entails a high risk for the
rights and freedoms of natural persons”

THIRD: In accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the claimant against the respondent.
FOURTH: On 06/09/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and
sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD.
FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement was notified, the claimant on 07/01/2020 submitted
brief of allegations stating in summary the following: that it has been introduced
explicitly the destruction of documents in the contract signed with the supplier;
Provides new internal communication and driver confidentiality commitment
involved and internal circular signed by the same; annual audit is planned
by the hired consultant; In addition, it is intended to unify the action protocol of
security incidents, meetings every two months to determine any possible
infringement and annual audit on data protection.
SIXTH: On 08/18/2020, a period of practice tests began,
remembering the following

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services that are part of file E/08137/2019.
- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement of
home filed by the respondent and the documentation that accompanies them.
SEVENTH: On 02/04/2021, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense that
by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection to sanction the
claimed for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.a) of the RGPD, with a penalty of warning.
After the legally stipulated period, the respondent has not submitted a written
any allegation.
EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: That on 05/07/2019 a technician from the claimant's Environment located a
dumped out of waste containers, including delivery notes
and package delivery documentation from the TIPSA company (a total of 212
folios) in which names, surnames, DNI and address of natural persons appear.
SECOND: Photographs of the containers with the garbage and a copy of the
the TIPSA delivery documentation containing personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/20

THIRD: TIPSA in writing dated 07/12/2019, has indicated that its business model
lies in the creation of a network of freight forwarding agencies,
proceeding to sign contracts with existing agencies; contract is provided
agreement between TIPSA and the defendant dated 10/21/2004, as well as the
novation of the same on 05/01/2008.
FOURTH: The respondent in writing has indicated that once the incident became known,
after TIPSA's letter, it was understood that the event should be investigated, stating that:
“The carrier that caused the incident, at that time, was hired as
reinforcement given the increase in the volume of work in that period” and that “This entity
concluded that it was a human error due to lack of diligence, without the appearance of
bad faith or intention to harm the privacy of the data contained in said
documents and without deriving any economic benefit from such action for
the responsible carrier.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

Article 58.2.b) of the RGPD indicates:

II

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the treatment operations have infringed the
provided in this Regulation;
III

The facts claimed are specified in the discharge outside the containers
of waste, of delivery notes and documentation of parcel delivery of the company
TIPSA, a total of 212 pages, including the personal data of
natural persons, conduct that violates data protection regulations, duty of
confidentiality.

Such treatment could constitute an infringement of article 5,

Principles related to the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes that:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality").

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/20

(…)”
Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

IV

In the present case, the conduct of the defendant evidences the violation of the
article 5.1.f) in relation to article 32.1 of the aforementioned regulation. As stated in the
proven facts on 03/9/2020 an environmental technician from the City Council of
***LOCATION.1 located a waste dump outside the garbage containers,
related to delivery notes and parcel delivery documentation of the company TIPSA,
adding a total of 212 pages, in which names, surnames, DNI and address appear
of natural persons.

The duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, must
understood that its purpose is to prevent leaks of data not
consented to by their owners.

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not
only to the person in charge and in charge of the treatment but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

In accordance with the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, the personal data
must be treated in a way that guarantees the security and confidentiality
adequate, including the impossibility of unauthorized access or use of said
data and the equipment used in the treatment ("principles of integrity and
confidentiality").

Therefore, it constitutes a legitimate interest of the person in charge, the treatment of
personal data to the extent strictly necessary and proportionate to
ensure their safety (i.e. the ability to resist, at a given level of
trust, to accidental events or illicit or malicious actions that
compromise the availability, authenticity, integrity and confidentiality of data
personal data stored or transmitted), which could include, preventing unauthorized access
access to communications networks and the malicious distribution of
codes, stop attacks and damage to computer and communication systems
electronics.

It should be noted that the loss of confidentiality of the data subject
treatment, etc., poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of people
physical whose gravity and probability will depend on the nature, scope,
context and purposes of data processing. In order to maintain security and prevent
that the treatment violates the provisions of the RGPD, the person in charge or the person in charge

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/20

they must evaluate the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them.
These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account those that derive from the processing of personal data, such as
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial, all to prevent damage from happening and
a security breach may occur.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/20

It should be noted that TIPSA and the respondent maintain a contract of
collaboration; before the request for information from the first, the respondent indicated
that it was all due to human error.

Also the one claimed in his response to the informative request of the
Agency stated that they had knowledge of the incident through the
information provided by TIPSA and that the carrier causing the incident of
security had been hired as reinforcement given the increased volume of
work in the period in which the incident occurred and that the management of delivery notes and
deliveries was at a time of technological adaptation and process of
change of physical documentation to the use of mobile application, process that would end
on 07/09/2019, at which time the documentation was completely dispensed with
physical. It also indicated that they had a service provider for the
periodic collection of documents using sealed containers, having
transferred to employees information in order to reinforce the importance in
diligence in the processing of personal data expressly appearing
documentation destruction instructions.

The respondent has also provided a Record of Processing Activities and

Risk analysis and management,

For its part, TIPSA, once the analysis and investigation of the
incidence, has stated that it was an isolated incident and that it has not been
detected intentionality that could motivate the events produced.

The person claimed by writing sent to this Agency has indicated having
proceeded to adopt a series of measures, without prejudice to adopting and incorporating others,
on its own initiative or those that this body may submit to it, among which
finds the performance of an annual audit by the consultant in the field of
of data protection contracted by the company and that in the report that it has
transferred has revealed a series of deficiencies that must be
corrected with your advice.

At the same time and in order to prevent similar incidents from occurring, and
in a process of improving its regulatory compliance will carry out a series of
actions, including unifying the protocol for action in the event of incidents of
security and the protocol of action in the event of possible breaches or infractions in
data protection in order to improve transparency and coherence
internal in data processing; hold bi-monthly meetings to
to determine and detect any possible violation of the protection of
data; perform annual audits on data protection with the entity
contracted to determine if future changes could justify another type of
measures to be taken.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/20

On the other hand, the contract with the supplier has been modified
explicitly introducing certain mention to the destruction of documents, to
in order to record said end; confidentiality agreement of the
autonomous carrier involved in the claimed security incident and the circular
signed by him; workers have received new training in the matter to
prevent events such as the one that occurred and that has adequate procedures in place
of action in the destruction of documents, the incidence being a consequence of
punctual error in the operation of said procedures, which have been
reinforced to avoid events similar to the one produced.

v

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned GDPR, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates: “Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

However, article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: “Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations.

In the case at hand, the present sanctioning procedure has
It has been proven that the defendant violated the principle of confidentiality of the
data by enabling unauthorized access to them as a result of the
abandonment of the documents that contained them.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/20

In accordance with the evidence available to said conduct
constitutes by the claimed party the infringement of the provisions of article 5.1.f) of the
GDPR.

This infraction could be sanctioned with a warning in accordance with the
article 58.2.b) of the RGPD and consider that the administrative fine that could fall
in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.b) of the RGPD could constitute a burden
for the defendant, in addition to the fact that there is no record of the commission of any previous infraction
in terms of data protection.

Likewise, it is necessary to point out that not correcting the incidents produced
in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD applying appropriate technical measures to the
risk presented by the treatment of the data, as a consequence of the destruction,
accidental or unlawful loss or alteration of personal data that has been
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data and that could cause physical damages,
material or immaterial, or to repeat the behavior revealed in the
claim and that is the cause of this procedure, as well as not informing this
AEPD of the rest of the measures adopted could give rise to the exercise of possible
actions before the person in charge of the treatment so that they are applied in a
take appropriate measures to ensure and not compromise confidentiality
of personal data and the right to privacy of individuals.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE GIRONA INTEGRAL EXPRESS, S.L., with NIF B17770991,
for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to GIRONA INTEGRAL EXPRESS, S.L.
with NIF B17770991.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/20

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

