•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To: 

Join  the Triboo  Limited 

Of: 

26-28 Hammersmith  Grove, Office 808,  London,  England,  W6  7BA 

1. 

The  Information Commissioner ("the Commissioner")  has decided to 

issue Join  the Triboo  Limited  ("JTT")  with  a monetary penalty under 

section  SSA  of the Data  Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA").  The  penalty is  in 

relation  to a serious contravention  of Regulation  22  of the  Privacy  and 

Electronic Communications (EC  Directive)  Regulations  2003  ("PECR"). 

2. 

This notice explains the Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

JTT,  whose  registered  office  address  is  given  above  (Companies House 

Registration  Number:  07152223)  is the organisation  stated  in  this 

notice to  have transmitted unsolicited  communications  by  means of 

electronic mail  to individual  subscribers for the purposes of direct 

marketing  contrary to regulation  22  of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  22 of PECR  states: 

1 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

"(1)  This 

regulation  applies 

to 

the 

transmission  of  unsolicited 

communications  by  means  of  electronic  mail 

to 

individual 

subscribers. 

(2)  Except in  the circumstances referred to  in  paragraph  (3),  a  person 

shall neither transmit,  nor instigate the transmission of,  unsolicited 

communications  for the purposes  of direct marketing  by means of 

electronic  mail  unless  the  recipient  of  the  electronic  mail  has 

previously notified the  sender that he  consents  for the  time  being 

to such  communications being sent by,  or at the  instigation  of,  the 

sender. 

(3)  A  person  may send or instigate  the  sending  of electronic  mail for 

the purposes of direct marketing where-

(a)  that person has obtained the contact details of the recipient 

of that electronic mail in  the course of the sale or 

negotiations for the sale  of a product or service to that 

recipient; 

(b)  the direct marketing is  in  respect of that person's similar 

products and services only;  and 

(c)  the recipient has been given a simple means of refusing 

(free of charge except for the costs of the  transmission  of 

the refusal)  the use  of his contact details for the purposes 

of such direct marketing,  at the time that the details  were 

initially collected,  and,  where he did not initially refuse  the 

use  of the details,  at the time of each subsequent 

communication. 

(4)  A subscriber shall not permit his line  to be  used in  contravention of 

paragraph (2)." 

2 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

5. 

Section  122(5) of the  Data  Protection  Act  2018 "DPA18" defines direct 

marketing  as "the communication (by whatever means)  of advertising 

or marketing material which  is  directed to particular individuals".  This 

definition  also applies for the  purposes of PECR  (see  regulation  2(2) 

PECR  and  paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule  19 of the  DPA18). 

6. 

Consent in  PECR,  between  29  March  2019  and  31  December 2020,  was 

defined  by reference to the  concept of consent in  Regulation  2016/679 

("the GDPR"):  regulation  8(2)  of the  Data  Protection,  Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019.  Article  4(11)  of the GDPR  sets out the following  definition: 

"'consent' of the data subject means any freely given,  specific, 

informed and unambiguous indication  of the data subject's wishes  by 

which  he or she,  by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, 

signifies agreement to  the processing of personal data  relating to him 

or her". 

7. 

Recital  32  of the GDPR  materially states that "When  the processing has 

multiple purposes,  consent should be  given  for all of them".  Recital  42 

materially  provides  that  "For  consent to  be  informed,  the  data  subject 

should  be  aware  at least  of the  identity  of the  controller".  Recital  43 

materially  states  that  "Consent  is  presumed not to  be  freely  given  if it 

does  not allow separate  consent to  be  given  to  different personal data 

processing operations despite it being appropriate in the individual case". 

8. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a living individual 

and includes an  unincorporated body of such  individuals". 

3 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

9. 

A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services". 

10. 

"Electronic mail" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "any text, 

voice,  sound or image message sent over a public electronic 

communications network which  can  be stored in  the network or in  the 

recipient's terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 

includes messages sent using a short message service". 

11.  Section  SSA  of the  DPA  (as applied to  PECR  cases  by Schedule  1 to 

PECR,  as  variously amended)  states: 

"(1)  The  Commissioner may serve a person  with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is  satisfied that -

(a)  there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 

Directive) Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b)  subsection (2)  or (3)  applies. 

(2)  This  subsection applies if the contravention  was  deliberate. 

(3)  This  subsection applies if the person  -

(a)  knew or ought to have known  that there  was a risk that the 

contravention  would occur,  but 

(b) failed to  take reasonable steps to prevent the 

contravention." 

12.  The  Commissioner has issued  statutory guidance under section  SSC  (1) 

of the  DPA  about the issuing  of monetary penalties that has  been 

published  on  the ICO's website.  The  Data  Protection  (Monetary 

4 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Penalties)  (Maximum  Penalty and  Notices)  Regulations  2010 prescribe 

that the amount of any penalty determined  by the Commissioner must 

not exceed  £500,000. 

13.  PECR  were enacted  to protect the individual's fundamental  right to 

privacy in  the electronic communications sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

14.  The  provisions of the  DPA  remain  in  force  for the  purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the  introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20 to the  DPA18. 

Background to the case 

15. 

JTT  describes itself primarily as  an  operative of job search  websites.  Its 

Companies  House  entry lists the nature of its business  as  web  portals, 

information  service  activities and  advertising  agencies.  From  the 

Commissioner's own  investigations it is  apparent that the websites 

operated  by JTT  also  collect data for the purpose  of lead  generation 

and  hosted  direct marketing, which  purpose  forms the subject of this 

Notice. 

16. 

JTT came  to the attention  of the Commissioner during  an  investigation 

into Leads  Work  Limited  ("LWL")  in  2020.  LWL  were  subsequently fined 

by the  Commissioner for sending  unsolicited  direct marketing 

messages in  contravention  of regulation  22  of the  PECR  1 .  LWL  had 

1 https://ico.org.uk/media/action-weve-taken/mpns/2619378/leads-work-limited-mpn.pdf 

5 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

informed the Commissioner that it purchased  data from  a variety of 

suppliers,  including JTT,  who sourced the  data from  the websites it 

operated.  The  Commissioner also  discovered that JTT conducted  a 

considerable  amount of hosted  electronic marketing  on  behalf of third 

parties via  email  marketing. 

17. 

LWL  told the  Commissioner that the websites from  which  JTT  sourced 

it's data  were 

and 

. A review  of 

these websites by the Commissioner,  which  were  very similar and 

shared  the same  consent and  privacy statements,  raised  concerns 

about how  data was  being  obtained,  used  and  shared  by JTT. 

Accordingly he  commenced  a separate  investigation,  writing to JTT  on 

24  August  2020  and  making a number of enquiries about JTT's 

compliance with  PECR. 

18. 

JTT  responded  on  21  September 2020  and  provided  a  description  of its 

business  model,  which  involved  several  activities  in  the  field  of  digital 

marketing,  both  directly,  and  as  an  agency.  JTT  explained  that  it 

operates as  a publisher of several 'editorial' websites mostly focusing  on 

job-related  topics,  and  users  could  subscribe  to  access  'exclusive' 

content.  Data  is  collected  via  these  websites from  information  provided 

by 

individuals  at  the  point  of  registration.  JTT  advised  that  the 

registration  forms  contain  two  checkboxes,  firstly  asking  for consent to 

receive  marketing  communications,  and  secondly  asking  for consent  to 

transfer  personal  data  to  a  list  of  third  parties  contained  within  the 

privacy policy.  A link to the privacy policy is  contained  in  the registration 

form  and  in  the website footer. 

19. 

JTT  emphasised the checkboxes  are  not pre-flagged  and  if an  individual 

does  not select either box,  they can  still  proceed  with the  registration. 

6 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

If the  individual  flags the first box, they wil I receive  advertising 

communications via  email  and  phone from  JTT. 

20.  Five  proprietary websites were  listed  by JTT,  four of which  were job 

advertisement websites (the first two being  those  identified  by  LWL): 

;  and 

21.  Upon  review  of these  websites  by the  Commissioner it was  noted that 

the  consent statements for 

and 

were  identical  insofar as  hosted  electronic 

marketing  is  concerned,  in  that they contained the following  wording: 

"I agree  with  Marketing Activity 

Yes  no 

By entering you agree to our Privacy Policy and to receive 

communications by email,  phone and SMS from 

,, 

22.  The 

contained  a similar consent statement,  but 

which  differed  slightly in  its third  party consent statement. 

23.  The  consent statement for the  above three websites  each  contained  a 

hyperlink to an  identical  privacy policy.  These  begin  that JTT's  principal 

activities include  email  marketing and  mobile  marketing services,  and 

that they carry out such  marketing activities for third  parties '(who 

may operate in  any business  sector)',  and  who are  referred  to in  the 

privacy policy as  'business partners' and 'clients'.  Further down, 

individuals are  informed that they may be  contacted  by e-mail  within 

categories,  of which  11  broad  categories are  listed  such  as  'financial', 

7 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

'electronics', 'clubs,  organisations and  web  sites/ portals'.  There  are 

then  a further 47 subcategories  under nine  of these  categories.  These 

include examples such  as  'offers for surveys, 'charitable organisations' 

and 'offers for professional  associations'.  The  financial  sector does  list 

three named 'preferred  partners' in  the claims  sector. 

24.  The  privacy policy  stated: 

"When you register with  us  we  ask for personal information such  as 

your name,  date of birth,  contact details,  and other details listed in  the 

table below.  We  use  this information for direct advertising campaigns, 

but never to process,  or aid the process of, job applications". 

25.  Within  the privacy policy was  a broad  statement about the  disclosure 

of data.  This  read: 

"With  your consent,  we  may share,  rent and sell your personal data or 

sell or rent our entire database  to our partners and clients in  any 

sector for any Commercial Purpose  including marketing activities.  By 

marketing activities,  we  mean the communication directly to particular 

individuals by e-mail,  post,  telephone or SMS of any advertising or 

marketing material in  respect of any product or service from  us,  our 

partners or clients." 

26.  The 

consent statement differed  notably from  the 

other three in  that it read: 

"...  Agree to receive offers by email from_, on  behalf of selected 

companies that we  believe  will be  of interest to you.  These  companies 

are  within  the following  categories:  Automotive,  Retail,  Finance, 

Insurance or General. 

8 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Yes  No 

,, 

27.  The  consent statement on  this site contained  a link to the  same  privacy 

policy as  previously identified  in  the other three job websites. 

28. 

In  addition to the job websites, JTT  also  operates a lead  generation 

website 

purporting to offer individuals the  opportunity to 

compare  offers for boilers,  solar panels,  loans and 'education'.  The 

website  started  in  a similar fashion  to the job websites,  stating that the 

principal  activities of the  business are  email  marketing  and  mobile 

marketing  services,  and  client recruitment campaigns.  It stated that 

marketing  activities are  carried  out for third  parties,  referred  to as 

'business partners' and 'clients'. 

29.  This  site had  multiple points of data  collection  as  opposed  to the simple 

'register' on  the job websites.  The consent statement read: 

"I agree I  do  not agree 

By entering you agree to receive  communications by email,  phone, 

and SMS from 

,, 

30.  The  privacy policy contained  much  the  same  wording  as  the job 

websites,  containing  the  same  categories  and  subcategories  in  which 

emails may be  sent.  It differed  only in  naming three  business  partners 

or clients. 

31. 

JTT  provided figures for the  number of individuals signed  up through 

each  website,  and  of these,  how  many had  subsequently agreed  to 

9 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

marketing.  During the  period  1 August 2019 to  19 August 2020  ("the 

relevant period")  a total  of 459,562 registrations occurred  across  all 

five websites,  of which  253,774 agreed to marketing. This  data would 

have  been  added to JTT's  existing  database.  It was  apparent from  the 

information  provided that the job websites were  by far the main  source 

of data  for JTT,  with 

and 

having the  highest amount of registrations and  consent to marketing  of 

all  the websites. 

32.  Further enquiries were  sent to JTT  on  22  September 2020 requesting 

details of the  emails sent by JTT,  including volumes,  during the 

relevant period. 

33. 

JTT  responded  by confirming that during the relevant period  it had  sent 

108,769,000 emails.  Of these,  approximately  107 million  (equating to 

98.3%)  were  received.  JTT  explained the  high  delivery rate  was  due to 

its efforts to ensure the veracity of email  addresses  input into its 

database. 

34.  Regarding  distinct emails, JTT explained that it had  managed 40 email 

marketing  campaigns,  with  each  email  having  been  sent to individuals 

on  18 occasions.  These  emails were 'hosted  marketing' whereby JTT 

'hosted' the marketing  of third  party companies to its own  distribution 

lists,  relying  on  the  consent individuals give to receive  marketing from 

JTT. 

35. 

JTT  provided the names of 26  companies  on  whose  behalf they had 

sent emails,  with  the three  largest campaigns  having  been  conducted 

on  behalf o f_ ,  -

and 

. The  emails 

appeared  to come  from  the company  being  hosted, with  the only 

reference to JTT being  contained  in  a small  disclaimer at the foot of the 

email  which  informed  recipients that the email  had  come  from  JTT,  and 

10 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

contained  a link to a privacy policy,  JTT's  address  and  email  address. 

The  emails varied  greatly in  content depending  on  the  instigator,  and 

included  claims management,  insurance,  real  estate,  utility switching 

and  online  courses. 

36.  Further enquiries were  sent by the Commissioner to JTT on  13  April 

2021,  seeking  clarification  as  to the number of distinct individuals the 

emails were  sent to, the size  of the  database  and  retention  periods.  JTT 

responded  by confirming that the  107 million  delivered  emails were 

sent to 437,324 distinct individuals.  This  meant that each  individual 

would  have  received  on  average  244 emails during the  relevant period. 

JTT  explained  that there were  2,088,016  individuals on  the company 

database,  of which  525,747 had  consented  to marketing.  In terms of 

data  retention, JTT  advised that those  deemed 'inactive' ( defined  as 

having not opened  an  email  for 12 months)  are  removed  24  months 

after registering. 

37.  On  25  November 2021, the  Commissioner wrote to inform JTT that the 

investigation  had  concluded,  and  that the  Commissioner would 

consider whether JTT  had  contravened  the  requirements of PECR  in 

relation  to the aforementioned  activities.  JTT were  notified that given  it 

also  sold  data to third  parties,  potential  contraventions of GDPR  were 

under consideration  in  a separate  investigation. The  letter asked  JTT to 

provide  any information  as  to mitigation taken  by the  company  post 

contravention,  insofar as  any changes to its websites were  concerned. 

38. 

JTT  informed the Commissioner in  a response  dated  14  December 

2021, that between  February and  April  2021,  it was  involved  in  a 

privacy assessment activity undertaken  by a  law firm  to verify their 

compliance.  It explained that further steps were taken  to "further 

bolster" compliance  including: 

11 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

• 

"Providing more details about how the data subjects data  will be 

processed,  including the  various means of communications. 

•  Providing more details about the steps that are likely to be taken in 

respect of the data  where  third parties are involved. 

• 

Incorporating the language of 'data processing' and 'consent' to 

build upon previous affirmative and unambiguous language. 

• 

Including the name of the respective privacy policy (by hyper/ink)  of 

relevant third parties if not already provided." 

39.  For three  of the job websites,  JTT  stated that they changed the consent 

statements to improve the transparency of declaration,  using  clear and 

plain  language to improve data  subject awareness about the 

processing.  Furthermore, the 'yes or no' was  replaced  with  a checkbox 

to ensure that the  consent is  freely given.  The  new consent statement 

for the job website  registration  page  is  as  follows: 

"I agree to the processing of my data for marketing purposes by email, 

phone,  and SMS from Join  the  Triboo ...... " 

40.  The  privacy policies  of the job websites,  along  with 

were 

also  said  to have been  updated,  however there was  no  apparent 

change to the substance  relating to direct marketing or data  sale. 

41.  The  Commissioner has  made the  above findings  of fact on  the 

balance  of probabilities. 

42.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether those facts constitute 

a contravention  of regulation  22  of PECR  by JTT  and,  if so,  whether the 

conditions of section  SSA  DPA  are  satisfied. 

12 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The contravention 

43.  The  Commissioner finds that JTT contravened  regulation  22  of PECR  as 

follows: 

44.  The  Commissioner finds that between  1 August 2019 to  19 August 

2020,  107 million  direct marketing emails were  received  by 

subscribers.  The  Commissioner finds that JTT transmitted those direct 

marketing  messages, contrary to regulation  22  of PECR. 

45. 

JTT,  as  the sender of the  direct marketing,  is  required to ensure that it 

is  acting  in  compliance  with the  requirements of regulation  22  of PECR, 

and  to ensure that valid  consent to send  those  messages had  been 

obtained. 

46. 

In this instance JTT  is  required to demonstrate that the consent is 

freely given,  specific,  informed,  and  contains  an  unambiguous 

indication  from  the individual  via  an  affirmative action. 

47.  Consent is  required to be "specific" as  to the type of marketing 

communication to be  received,  and  the organisation,  or specific type of 

organisation, that will  be  sending  it. 

48.  Consent will  not be  "informed" if individuals do  not understand  what 

they are  consenting to.  Organisations should therefore  always ensure 

that the language  used  is  clear,  easy to understand,  and  not hidden 

away in  a privacy policy  or small  print.  Consent will  not be  valid  if 

individuals are  asked to agree to receive  marketing from  or on  behalf 

of "similar organisations", "partners", "selected third  parties" or other 

similar generic description. 

13 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

49.  The  consent statement for 

and 

simply states "I agree  with  marketing activity". 

It is  not specific and  does not inform  an  individual  as  to what 

marketing  activity will  take place,  via  what means,  nor who the 

marketing will  be  by or on  behalf of.  Indeed, the privacy policy states 

that marketing may be  carried  out for 'third  parties' who may operate 

in  'any business  sector' and  are  referred to as  'business  partners' and 

'clients'.  There  is then  a list of broad  generalised  categories  and 

subcategories of organisations on  behalf of which  marketing may be 

sent.  This  statement was  active on  three  out of four job websites, 

which  obtained  96.8%  of the 'consents' obtained  by JTT during the 

relevant period. 

50.  The 

consent statement is  more descriptive,  but 

is  neither specific nor informed.  It refers to receipt of emails on  behalf 

of 'selected  companies' and  contains  broad  categories,  including 

'general'.  Individuals could  not possibly be  informed  as  to what a 

'general' company  might be.  The  privacy policy is the same  as  detailed 

above. 

51.  The 

consent statement pre-packages all  the  consent 

channels into a single  statement and  thus cannot be  said to be  specific. 

It also  not informed  as  it does not describe that any marketing will 

occur,  instead  stating that 'communications' will  be  sent.  Again, the 

privacy  policy is the same  as  the job websites save  that it includes 

details of three  named 'business partners' or 'clients'. 

52.  The  Commissioner has  considered  the  consents  obtained  by JTT  and 

finds that in  each  case  they do  not comply with the requirements of 

Article  4(11)  of the GDPR. 

14 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

53.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  from  the evidence  he  has seen 

that JTT  did  not have the necessary valid  consent for the  107 million 

direct marketing messages received  over the  relevant period. 

54.  As  the data  was  not collected  during the course  of a sale  or negotiation 

between JTT and the recipients  of the  emails, the Commissioner is 

satisfied that the  provisions of regulation  22(3)  PECR  ("the soft opt-in") 

do  not apply in  this case. 

55.  The  Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether the  conditions 

under section  SSA  DPA  are  met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

56.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  that the contravention  identified 

above  was  serious.  This is  because  over a period  of approximately one 

year a confirmed total  of 107 million  direct marketing messages  sent 

by JTT were  received  by 437,324 distinct individuals.  This means that 

each  individual  received  on  average  244 emails during the  relevant 

period.  These  messages contained  direct marketing material  for which 

subscribers  had  not provided  valid  consent. 

57.  The  Commissioner acknowledges that no  complaints have been 

identified  in  relation  to the  sending  of these  emails,  but is  unsurprised 

by this given that the  email  marketing was  hosted,  and  JTT's  role 

would  not necessarily have  been  apparent to recipients.  This  is 

particularly so  given  that the broad  range  and  content of the marketing 

emails was  far removed  from  the  context of the job search  websites to 

which  recipients  had  registered. 

15 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

58.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied that condition  (a)  from 

section  55A(l)  DPA  is  met. 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

59.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether the  contravention  identified 

above  was  deliberate.  In the  Commissioner's view, this means that 

JTT's  actions which  constituted that contravention  were  deliberate 

actions  ( even  if JTT  did  not actually intend thereby to contravene 

PECR). 

60.  The  Commissioner does  not consider that JTT deliberately set out to 

contravene  PECR  in  this instance. 

61.  The  Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether the  contravention 

identified above  was  negligent. This consideration  comprises two 

elements: 

62.  Firstly,  he has  considered  whether JTT  knew  or ought reasonably to 

have  known  that there was  a risk that these  contraventions would 

occur.  He  is satisfied that this condition  is  met, for the following 

reasons. 

63.  The  Commissioner has  published  detailed  guidance for those carrying 

out direct marketing explaining their legal  obligations under PECR. 

This  guidance gives clear advice  regarding  the  requirements of consent 

for direct marketing and  explains the  circumstances under which 

organisations are  able to carry out marketing  over the  phone,  by text, 

by email,  by post,  or by fax.  In  particular it states that organisations 

can  generally only send,  or instigate,  marketing messages to 

individuals if that person  has specifically consented to receiving  them. 

16 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The  Commissioner has  also  published  detailed  guidance on  consent 

under the GDPR.  In  case  organisations remain  unclear on  their 

obligations, the ICO  operates a telephone  helpline.  ICO 

communications about previous enforcement action  where  businesses 

have not complied  with  PECR  are  also  readily  available. 

64.  The  issue  of unsolicited  marketing has  also  been  widely  publicised  by 

the media  as  being  a problem. 

65. 

JTT  is  an  experienced  host marketer and  data  supplier which  has  been 

operating  in  excess of 10 years,  and  so  should  have  had  a full 

understanding  of the obligations imposed  on  them.  This  is  particularly 

so  given that it operates in  a sector that poses  a high  risk to the rights 

and  freedoms  of individuals.  It is  evident from  responses  provided to 

JTT  during the  Commissioner's  investigation  that JTT were  aware  of, 

and  cited,  certain  requirements necessary to process  data  in  line with 

their obligations under the  legislation,  however,  it is  apparent that JTT 

have  a fundamental  misunderstanding  of the  law. 

66. 

Further, JTT  was  aware  of the Commissioner's  prior investigation  into 

LWL,  and  his concerns  about the validity of consent to send  marketing 

messages  based  upon  data  supplied  by third  parties,  including JTT. 

This  should  have alerted JTT to the  possibility that the consent it used 

to send  marketing  emails was  inadequate. 

67. 

It is  therefore  reasonable  to suppose  that JTT should  have  been  aware 

of its responsibilities in  this area. 

68.  Secondly, the  Commissioner has  gone on  to consider whether JTT 

failed  to take  reasonable  steps to prevent the  contraventions.  Again,  he 

is  satisfied  that this condition  is  met. 

17 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

69. 

JTT  should  have familiarised  itself with, and  ensured  that the  consent 

statements in  its websites complied  with  Article 4(11)  of GDPR  in  order 

to collect compliant data.  JTT  could  have  consulted  ICO  guidance  or 

obtained  further advice  if it was  unclear. The  consent statements and 

privacy policies  should  have  been  specific as  to what and  how 

marketing was to occur,  and  informed  as  to the  identity of third  parties 

on  whose  behalf JTT hosted  marketing.  Whilst JTT  stated  it has 

undergone a legal  review  of its processes  and  procedures,  and  has 

since  updated  its consent statements, the  Commissioner considers  that 

the changes  made  are  still  insufficient to equate to compliant consent 

statements,  particularly as  all  marketing  channels  remain  bundled 

together and  do  not reference  any of the third  parties on  behalf of 

whom  JTT  host marketing. 

70. 

In the  circumstances, the Commissioner is  satisfied that JTT failed  to 

take  reasonable  steps to prevent the contraventions. 

71.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied that condition  (b)  from  section 

SSA  (1)  DPA  is  met. 

The Commissioner's decision to issue a  monetary penalty 

72.  The  Commissioner considers there  are  no  aggravating  factors to be 

taken  into consideration  in  this case. 

73.  The  Commissioner has taken  into account the following  mitigating 

feature of this case: 

•  JTT  has taken  some  steps to change  its consent statements,  however 

these  are  insufficient to satisfy the requirements of PECR,  and  so  the 

18 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Commissioner does not view this as justification to reduce  the  penalty 

on  this occasion. 

74.  For the  reasons  explained  above,  the  Commissioner is  satisfied  that the 

conditions from  section  55A(l)  DPA  have  been  met in  this case.  He  is 

also  satisfied  that the procedural  rights under section  55B  have  been 

complied  with. 

75.  The  latter has  included  issuing  a Notice of Intent on  17 October 2022, 

in  which  the Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking  and  invited 

JTT to make representations in  respect of this matter.  In reaching  his 

final  view, the  Commissioner has taken  into account the 

representations and  financial  information  provided  by JTT. 

76.  The  Commissioner is  accordingly entitled to issue  a monetary penalty 

in  this case. 

77.  The  Commissioner has  considered  whether,  in  the circumstances,  he 

should  exercise  his discretion  so  as  to issue  a monetary penalty. 

78.  The  Commissioner has  attempted to consider the likely impact of a 

monetary penalty on  JTT.  He  has  decided  on  the  information that is 

available to him that a penalty remains the  appropriate  course  of action 

in  the  circumstances  of the  case. 

79.  The  Commissioner's  underlying  objective  in  imposing a monetary 

penalty notice  is to promote compliance with  PECR.  The  sending  of 

unsolicited  direct marketing messages is  a matter of significant public 

concern.  A monetary penalty in  this case  should  act as  a general 

encouragement towards compliance  with  the  law,  or at least as  a 

deterrent against non-compliance,  on  the  part of all  persons  running 

19 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

businesses currently engaging  in  these  practices.  The  issuing  of a 

monetary penalty will  reinforce the need  for businesses to ensure that 

they are  only messaging those  who  specifically consent to receive 

direct marketing. 

80. 

In  making  his  decision, the Commissioner has also  had  regard  to the 

factors  set out in  s108(2)(b)  of the  Deregulation Act  2015;  including: 

the nature and  level  of risks  associated  with  non-compliance,  including 

the  risks to economic growth;  the  steps taken  by the business to 

achieve compliance  and  reasons  for its failure;  the willingness  and 

ability of the business to address non-compliance;  the likely impact of 

the  proposed  intervention  on  the  business,  and  the  likely impact of the 

proposed  intervention  on  the wider business  community,  both  in  terms 

of deterring non-compliance and  economic benefits to legitimate 

businesses. 

The amount of the penalty 

81.  Taking  into account all  of the  above, the Commissioner has  decided 
that a penalty in  the  sum  of £130,000 (One Hundred and Thirty 
Thousand pounds)  is  reasonable  and  proportionate given the 

particular facts of the case  and  the  underlying  objective in  imposing the 

penalty. 

Conclusion 

82.  The  monetary penalty must be  paid  to the  Commissioner's office  by 

BACS  transfer or cheque  by  11 May 2023 at the latest.  The  monetary 

penalty is  not kept by the Commissioner but will  be  paid  into the 

Consolidated  Fund  which  is the Government's general  bank account at 

the  Bank  of England. 

20 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

83. 

If the  Commissioner receives full  payment of the monetary penalty by 
10 May  2023  the Commissioner will  reduce  the  monetary penalty by 

20% to 

£104,000 (One Hundred and  Four Thousand  pounds).  However, 
you  should  be  aware that the early payment discount is  not available  if 

you  decide to exercise your right of appeal. 

84.  There  is  a right of appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 

against: 

(a)  the imposition  of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b)  the amount of the  penalty specified  in  the  monetary penalty 

notice. 

85.  Any  notice  of appeal  should  be  received  by the Tribunal  within  28  days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 

86. 

Information about appeals is  set out in  Annex  1. 

87.  The  Commissioner will  not take  action  to enforce  a monetary penalty 

unless: 

•  the  period  specified  within the notice within  which  a monetary 

penalty must be  paid  has expired  and  all  or any of the monetary 

penalty has not been  paid; 

•  all  relevant appeals  against the monetary penalty notice and  any 

variation  of it have  either been  decided  or withdrawn;  and 

21 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

•  the  period  for appealing  against the  monetary penalty and  any 

variation  of it has expired. 

88. 

In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

recoverable  by Order of the County Court or the  High  Court.  In 

Scotland, the monetary penalty can  be  enforced  in  the  same  manner as 

an  extract registered  decree  arbitral  bearing  a warrant for execution 

issued  by the  sheriff court of any sheriffdom  in  Scotland. 

Dated the  12th day of April  2023 

Andy  Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

22 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

SECTION  55 A-E OF THE  DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  55B(S)  of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person 

upon  whom  a monetary penalty notice has  been  served  a right of 

appeal  to the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the 'Tribunal') 

against the notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the notice against which  the appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance  with the  law;  or 

b) 

to the extent that the notice involved an  exercise  of 

discretion  by the Commissioner, that she  ought to have exercised 

his discretion  differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the  appeal  or substitute such  other decision  as 

could  have  been  made by the Commissioner.  In  any other case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the  appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice  of appeal  on  the 

Tribunal  at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LE1  8DJ 

23 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0203 936 8963 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

a) 

The  notice of appeal  should  be  sent so  it is  received  by the 

Tribunal  within  28  days of the date of the  notice. 

b) 

If your notice of appeal  is  late the Tribunal  will  not admit it 

unless the Tribunal  has  extended the time for complying  with  this 

rule. 

4. 

The  notice of appeal  should  state:-

a) 

your name and  address/name and  address  of your 

representative  (if any); 

b) 

an  address where  documents may be  sent or delivered to 

you; 

c) 

the  name and  address  of the Information  Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the  decision  to which  the  proceedings  relate; 

e) 

the  result that you  are  seeking; 

f) 

the  grounds on  which  you  rely; 

g) 

you  must provide with  the notice of appeal  a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice  or variation  notice; 

h) 

if you  have exceeded the time limit mentioned  above the 

notice  of appeal  must include  a request for an  extension  of time 

24 

•ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

and  the  reason  why the notice  of appeal  was  not provided  in 

time. 

5. 

Before  deciding whether or not to appeal  you  may wish  to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser.  At the hearing  of an  appeal  a party 

may conduct his  case  himself or may be  represented  by any person 

whom  he  may appoint for that purpose. 

6. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier 

Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  are  contained  in  section  55B(S)  of,  and 

Schedule 6  to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal  Procedure 

(First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules  2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

25 

