
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    12/19/2019
                                14th European Data Protection Day 2020 - Artificial intelligence between promotion and taming Artificial intelligence (AI) systems represent a substantial challenge for freedom and democracy. Developments and applications of AI must correspond to fundamental rights in a democratic and constitutional manner. This applies in the Federal Republic of Germany, but of course also in Europe. The 14th European Data Protection Day is dedicated to these questions and the attempt to find political, economic and legal answers. Not everything that is technically possible and economically desirable may be implemented in reality. This applies in particular to the use of self-learning systems that process masses of data and intervene in the rights and freedoms of those affected through automated individual decisions. The protection of fundamental rights is the task of all state authorities. Essential framework conditions for the use of AI are to be specified by the legislator and implemented by the supervisory authorities. Only if the protection of fundamental rights and data protection keeps pace with the process of digitization is a future possible in which ultimately people and not machines decide about people.
At the end of his presidency of the conference of independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments last year, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information of Rhineland-Palatinate is organizing the 14th European Data Protection Day on the premises of the European Commission Representation in Berlin. The event is entitled "Artificial Intelligence - Between Promotion and Taming". Representatives from politics and science will talk about the importance of AI solutions and algorithms in business and technology and the associated challenges; justice and practice. This continues the priority topic of the 2019 presidency, which will also be on the agenda of the German data protection supervisory authorities in the future.
Speakers:
Prof. Dr. Helge Braun, Federal Minister for Special Tasks and Head of the Federal Chancellery
Prof. Dr. Thomas von Danwitz, Judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union
Paul Nemitz, European Commission, Member of the Data Ethics Committee
Prof. Dr. Mario Martini, University of Speyer, member of the data ethics committee
Prof. Dr. Katharina Zweig, University of Kaiserslautern, member of the Enquête Commission KI of the German Bundestag
Prof. Dr. Birgit Stark, University of Mainz, Director of the Mainz Media Institute
Andreas Schurig, Saxon data protection officer and chairman of the data protection conference in 2020
dr Jörg Wojahn, representative of the European Commission in Germany
Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Rhineland-Palatinate and Chairman of the Data Protection Conference in 2019
You can find more information about the program here.
Time: Tuesday, January 28, 2020, 12:30 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Place: Representation of the European Commission in Germany, Unter den Linden 78, 10117 Berlin
Participation is free.
More informationProf. dr Mario Martini: Opportunities and legal limits of government AI useProf. dr Katharina Zweig: Traceability regulation for ADM systems. A criticality-based approachProf. dr Birgit Stark: What do users understand by algorithms
                                return
                            



