• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

DATA PROTECTION ACT  1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

To:  Boiler Cover Breakdown  Limited 

Of: 

41  Oldfields  Road,  Sutton,  Surrey, SMl  2NB 

1. 

The Information  Commissioner ("the Commissioner")  has decided  to 

issue  Boiler Cover Breakdown  Limited  ("BCBL")  with  an  enforcement 

notice under section  40 of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 ("DPA").  The 

notice is  being  issued  because  of a serious contravention  of regulations 

21  and  24  of the  Privacy and  Electronic Communications (EC  Directive) 

Regulations  2003  ("PECR"). 

2. 

This  notice  explains the  Commissioner's decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

BCBL,  whose  registered  office  is  given  above  (Companies House 

Registration  Number:  08392566)  is  the organisation  stated  in  this 

notice to have used  a  public electronic communications service for the 

purpose of making  unsolicited  calls for the purposes of direct marketing 

contrary to regulation  21  of PECR. 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies to the  making of unsolicited  calls  for direct 

marketing purposes.  It means that if a company wants to make calls 

promoting a  product or service to an  individual  who  has a telephone 

1 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

number which  is  registered  with the Telephone  Preference  Service  Ltd 

("TPS"), then that individual  must have notified the company that they 

do  not object to receiving  such  calls from  it. 

5. 

Regulation  21  paragraph  (1)  of PECR  provides that: 

"(1) A person shall neither use,  nor instigate the use of,  a public 

electronic communications service for the purposes of making 

unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes where-

(a) 

the called line is  that of a subscriber who  has previously 

notified the caller that such calls should not for the time being 

be made on that line;  or 

(b) 

the number allocated to a subscriber in  respect of the called 

line is  one listed in  the register kept under regulation 26." 

6. 

Regulation  21  paragraphs (2),  (3),  (4)  and  (5)  provide that: 

"(2)  A subscriber shall not permit his line  to  be  used in  contravention 

of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 

where  the number allocated to  the called line has been listed on  the 

register for less  than 28 days preceding that on  which  the call is 

made. 

( 4)  Where  a subscriber who  has caused a number allocated to a line of 

his to  be listed in  the register kept under regulation 26 has notified 

a caller that he does  not,  for the time being,  object to such calls 

being made on  that line  by that caller,  such calls may be made by 

2 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

that caller on  that line,  notwithstanding that the number allocated 

to  that line is  listed in  the said register. 

(5)  Where  a subscriber has given a  caller notification pursuant to 

paragraph ( 4)  in  relation  to a  line of his-

(a)  the subscriber shall be free  to  withdraw that notification at 

any time,  and 

(b)  where such notification is  withdrawn,  the caller shall not 

make such calls on  that line." 

7. 

Regulation  24 of PECR  provides: 

"(1)  Where  a public electronic communications service is  used for the 

transmission  of a communication for direct marketing purposes 

the person  using,  or instigating the use of,  the service shall 

ensure that the following  information is provided with  that 

communication  -

(b) 

in  relation  to a  communication to  which  regulation 21 

[or 21A] (telephone calls) applies,  the particulars 

mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) and,  if the recipient of 

the call so  requests,  those mentioned in paragraph 

(2)(b). 

(2)  The  particulars referred to  in paragraph (1) are -

(a) 

the name of the person; 

(b) 

either the address of the person or a  telephone 

number on  which  he can  be reached free  of charge." 

3 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

8. 

Under regulation  26 of PECR,  the Commissioner is  required  to maintain 

a  register of numbers allocated  to subscribers who  have notified them 

that they do  not wish,  for the time being, to receive  unsolicited  calls for 

direct marketing purposes on  those  lines.  The Telephone  Preference 

Service  Limited  ("TPS")  is  a  limited  company which  operates the 

register on  the  Commissioner's behalf.  Businesses who wish  to carry 

out direct marketing  by telephone can  subscribe to the TPS  for a fee 

and  receive  from  them  monthly a  list of numbers on  that register. 

9. 

Section  122(5) of the  Data  Protection  Act 2018  ("DPA18")  defines 

direct marketing as "the communication (by whatever means) of 

advertising or marketing material which  is  directed to particular 

individuals".  This  definition  also  applies for the  purposes of PECR  (see 

regulation  2(2)  PECR  and  paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule  19 of 

the  DPA18). 

10.  From  1 January 2021, consent in  PECR  has  been  defined  by reference 

to the concept of consent in  the  UK  GDPR  as  defined  in  section  3(10)  of 

the  DPA  2018[1l:  see  regulation  2(1)  of PECR,  as  amended  by Part  3 of 

Schedule  3,  paragraph  44  of The  Data  Protection~ Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc)  (EU  Exit)  Regulations 

2019/419.  Article 4(11)  of the  UK  GDPR  sets out the following 

definition: "'consent' of the data subject means any freely given, 

specific,  informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 

wishes  by which  he or she,  by a statement or by a clear affirmative 

action,  signifies agreement to  the processing of personal data  relating 

to him or her". 

111 The UK GDPR  is therein defined as  Regulation (EU)  2016/679 of the European  Parliament and  of the Council of 27 
April  2016  ("GDPR")  as  it forms  part  of the  law  of England  and  Wales,  Scotland  and  Northern  Ireland  by  virtue 
of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

4 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

11. 

"Individual" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a  living individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals". 

12.  A "subscriber" is  defined  in  regulation  2(1)  of PECR  as "a person  who  is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services". 

13.  The  DPA  contains enforcement provisions at Part V which  are 

exercisable  by the  Commissioner.  Those  provisions are  modified  and 

extended for the purposes of PECR  by Schedule  1 PECR. 

14.  Section  40(l)(a) of the  DPA  (as  extended  and  modified  by PECR) 

provides that if the Commissioner is  satisfied that a  person  has 

contravened  or is  contravening  any of the requirements of the 

Regulations,  he  may serve  him  with  an  Enforcement Notice  requiring 

him  to take within  such  time as  may be  specified  in  the  Notice,  or to 

refrain  from  taking  after such  time as  may be  so  specified,  such  steps 

as  are so  specified. 

15.  PECR  were enacted  to protect the individual's fundamental  right to 

privacy in  the  electronic communications sector.  PECR  were 

subsequently amended  and  strengthened.  The  Commissioner will 

interpret PECR  in  a way which  is  consistent with the  Regulations' 

overall  aim  of ensuring  high  levels of protection  for individuals' privacy 

rights. 

16.  The  provisions of the  DPA  remain  in  force  for the purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction  of the  DPA18:  see  paragraph  58(1)  of 

Schedule  20  to the  DPA18. 

5 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

The contravention 

17.  The  Commissioner finds that BCBL contravened  regulations  21  and  24 

of PECR. 

18.  The  Commissioner finds that the contravention  was  as  follows: 

19.  Between  1 January 2020 and  31  August 2020,  using  Clls allocated  to 

BBL  (specifically 02039082320),  BCBL  used  a public 

telecommunications service  for the purposes of making 9,075 

unsolicited  calls for direct marketing  purposes to subscribers where the 

number allocated  to the subscriber in  respect of the called  line was  a 

number listed  on  the register of numbers kept by the Commissioner in 

accordance with  regulation  26,  contrary to regulation  2l(l)(b) of PECR. 

20.  The  Commissioner is  satisfied  for the  purposes  of regulation  21  that 

these  9,075 unsolicited  direct marketing  calls were  made to subscribers 

who  had  registered  with the TPS  at least 28  days prior to receiving the 

calls,  and  who for the purposes  of regulation  21( 4)  had  not notified 

BCBL that they did  not, for the time being,  object to receiving  such 

calls. 

21.  For such  notification to be  valid  under regulation  21(4), the individual 

must have taken  a clear and  positive  action  to override their TPS 

registration  and  indicate their willingness to receive  marketing  calls 

from  the company.  The  notification  should  reflect the individual's 

choice  about whether or not they are  willing  to receive  marketing  calls. 

Therefore, where signing  up to use  a product or service  is  conditional 

upon  receiving  marketing  calls,  companies will  need  to demonstrate 

how this constitutes a clear and  positive notification  of the individual's 

willingness to receive  such  calls. 

6 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

22.  The  notification  must clearly  indicate the individual's willingness to 

receive  marketing  calls  specifically.  Companies cannot rely on 

individuals opting  in  to marketing  communications generally,  unless it 

is  clear that this will  include telephone calls. 

23.  Further, the notification  must demonstrate the individual's willingness 

to receive  marketing  calls  from  that company specifically.  Notifications 

will  not be  valid  for the  purposes  of regulation  21( 4)  if individuals are 

asked  to agree to receive  marketing from "similar organisations", 

"partners", "selected third  parties" or other similar generic descriptions. 

24.  There  is  no  evidence to suggest that BCBL were  carrying  out TPS 

checks  on  data.  Indeed, when  asked  whether it screened  data  against 

the TPS  register,  BCBL's  response  was "N/ A".  Enquiries by the 

Commissioner with the TPS  have confirmed that no TPS  licence  has 

been  provided to BCBL  or any of the other associated  companies.  Nor 

is there any explanation  provided  for why Clls which  were  in  use  by 

BCBL at the material time were  used to make 9,075  unsolicited  calls to 

individuals who  had  been  registered  with  the TPS  for not less than  28 

days. 

25.  BCBL  has  been  unable to provide any evidence that the  subscribers 

who  received  these calls  had  notified  BCBL that they did  not, for the 

time being,  object to such  calls.  BCBL  stated that it did  not purchase 

data  from  third  parties,  and  explained  in  relation  to its 452 active 

clients:  "These customers have had cover with us.  We  are calling them 

to ensure their boiler/system remains protected and we  are simply 

giving them a courtesy call to ensure they are satisfied.  If they express 

an objection to being contacted going forward,  the renewal is 

cancelled,  and the customer is  not contacted again." Given  that BCBL 

have 452 active clients it is  not clear why,  between  January and  August 

7 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

2020,  BCBL  made  13,632 calls  of which  9,075  were to TPS  registered 

individuals. 

26.  The  Commissioner is  therefore  satisfied  that there is  evidence of 9,075 

unsolicited  direct marketing calls  being  made by BCBL to subscribers 

who  had  been  registered  with  the TPS  for not less than  28  days,  and 

who  had  not previously notified  BCBL that they did  not object to 

receiving  such  calls. 

27. 

In addition,  BCBL  permitted  its  lines (specifically CLI 

to 

be  used  by BBL,  contrary to regulation  21(2)  of PECR,  resulting  in 

348,724 connected  calls  between January and  August 2020. 

28.  Further and  in  relation  to live calls  made by BCBL,  as  the complaints 

indicate,  BCBL failed,  as  required  by regulation  24  of PECR,  to provide 

the  recipient of the calls from  CLI 

the particulars 

specified  at regulation  24(2)  of PECR  in  that there is  evidence that the 

calls  and  automated  message from  that CLI  identified the caller as 

"Boiler Breakdown".  This  is  different to the trading  style  Boiler Cover 

UK  which  BCBL  use.  Contrary to information  provided to the 

Commissioner by BCBL with  regard  to which  Clls were  allocated  to 

which  companies,  BBL  is  actually the subscriber of this CLI  which 

creates a confusing  picture of which  organisation  is  using  which  lines to 

call  individuals and  makes it difficult for individuals to be  clear about 

who  is  calling  them.  The  name used  is  sufficiently generic that it could 

apply to both  companies,  and  searches for a website  demonstrate that 

it is  difficult for individuals to locate the correct organisation  without 

knowing  the exact http address. 

29.  The  Commissioner has  considered,  as  he  is  required to do  under 

section  40(2)  of the  DPA  (as extended  and  modified  by PECR)  when 

8 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

deciding  whether to serve an  Enforcement Notice,  whether any 

contravention  has caused  or is  likely to cause  any person  damage or 

distress. The  Commissioner has decided  that it is  likely that damage or 

distress has  been  caused  in  this instance. 

30. 

In view of the matters referred to above the Commissioner 
hereby gives notice that, in exercise of his powers under 
section 40 of the DPA, he requires BCBL to take the steps 
specified in Annex 1 of the Notice. 

Right of Appeal 

31.  There  is  a right of appeal  against this Notice to the  First-tier Tribunal 

(Information  Rights),  part of the General  Regulatory Chamber. 

Information  about appeals  is  set out in  the attached Annex  2. 

Dated  the 24th day of August 2022. 

Andy Curry 
Head  of Investigations 
Information  Commissioner's Office 
Wycliffe  House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9  SAF 

9 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 1 

TERMS OF THE  ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

BCBL  shall  within  30  days of the  date of this notice: 

1.  Neither use,  nor instigate the  use  of,  a public electronic 

communications service  for the purposes of making  unsolicited  calls 

for direct marketing purposes where the called  line  is  that of: 

(a)  a subscriber who  has  previously notified  BCBL that such  calls 

should  not be  made on  that line;  or 

(b)  a subscriber who has  registered  their number with the TPS  at 

least 28  days  previously and  who  has  not notified  BCBL that they 

do not object to such  calls  being  made. 

2.  Not permit its line/s to be  used  in  contravention  of paragraph  (1) 

above. 

3.  Furthermore,  where a public electronic communications service  is 

used  for the transmission  of a communication  for direct marketing 

purposes,  BCBL  shall  ensure that the recipient of the communication 

is  provided with: 

(a) the name  of the person;  and  if the  recipient so  requests, 

(b)  either the address of the  person  or a telephone  number on 

which  he  can  be  reached  free  of charge. 

10 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX 2 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST  DECISIONS OF THE  COMMISSIONER 

1. 

Section  48 of the  Data  Protection  Act  1998 gives any person  upon 

whom  an  enforcement notice has  been  served  a right of appeal  to the 

First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights)  (the "Tribunal")  against the 

notice. 

2. 

If you  decide to appeal  and  if the Tribunal  considers:-

a) 

that the notice against which  the  appeal  is  brought is  not in 

accordance with the law;  or 

b) 

to the  extent that the notice  involved  an  exercise  of discretion  by 

the Commissioner, that he  ought to have exercised  his  discretion 

differently, 

the Tribunal  will  allow the appeal  or substitute such  other decision  as 

could  have  been  made  by the  Commissioner.  In  any other case  the 

Tribunal  will  dismiss the appeal. 

3. 

You  may bring  an  appeal  by serving  a notice of appeal  on  the Tribunal 

at the following  address: 

General  Regulatory Chamber 
HM  Courts & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box  9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

11 

• ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

Telephone:  0203 936  8963 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

•  The  notice  of appeal  should  be  served  on  the Tribunal  within  28 

days of the  date on  which  the enforcement notice was  sent 

4. 

The  statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier Tribunal 

(General  Regulatory Chamber)  are  contained  in  sections 48 and  49 of, 

and  Schedule 6  to, the  Data  Protection  Act  1998, and Tribunal 

Procedure  (First-tier Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory Chamber)  Rules 

2009  (Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976 (L.20)). 

12 

