  Deliberation HAB-2022-003 of May 23, 2022National Commission for Computing and LibertiesNature of the deliberation: Members and agentsLegal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Tuesday May 31, 2022NOR: CNIL2215324XDeliberation no HAB-2022-003 of 23 05 2022 empowering agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties to carry out verification missions The office of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties, Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data; Having regard to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigation investigations and proceedings in this area or the execution of criminal penalties, and the free movement of such data; Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L. 253-3; Having regard to law no. 78-17 of 6 January 1978 amended relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its articles 8.2.g), 10, 11 and 19; Considering decree no. 2019-536 of May 29, 2019 amended taken for the application of the law January 6, 1978, in particular its articles 16 to 19; Having regard to deliberation no. 2013-175 of July 4, 2013 adopting the internal regulations of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties; Having regard to deliberation no. 2019-020 of February 28, 2019 delegating the powers of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties to its office; Having heard Mrs. Sophie LAMBREMON, Deputy Vice-President, in her report, and Mr. Benjamin TOUZANNE, Government Commissioner, in her observations; Resolves :Article 1: Agents of the National Commission for Inf ormatics and freedoms (CNIL) hereinafter designated are authorized, by reason of their functions, to carry out the visits and verifications mentioned in article 19 of the law of January 6, 1978 as amended and in article L. 253-3 of the Homeland Security Code: M. Belaïd AÏT HAMOUDA, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Ahlam AMMI, violation and cross-functional projects officer in the technological expertise department of the of innovation; Ms Amandine ANDRETTO, lawyer in the data protection delegates department in the compliance department; Ms Tess d'ARMAGNAC, lawyer in the health department in the compliance department; Ms Dorine ARNAUDEAU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Monir AZRAOUI, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Audrey BACQUIE, registry officer in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Isabelle BARBÉ, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Siré BARRY, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints to the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Leslie BASSE, lawyer in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Jean BAUDRILLARD, lawyer in the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Ms Barbara BAVOIL, assistant in the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Ms Nacéra BEKHAT, head of the economic affairs department to the compliance department; Ms Khadija BELGHITI-ALAOUI, legal officer in the exercise of rights and complaints department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Justine BERTAUD DU CHAZAUD, legal officer in the social issues and human resources in the compliance department;Mr. Martin BIÉRI, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Thomas BIZET, deputy head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Ms. Claire BIZOT-ESPIARD, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department; Ms. Nathalie BOHBOT, auditor of information systems in the control department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Stéphanie BOISSEAU, lawyer in the exercise of rights and complaints department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Cécile BOSSER, lawyer in the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Ms. Aziza BOUALLAGA BENHASSI, in charge of developing tools in the compliance tools department in the compliance department; Ms. Soumia BOUASSAM, lawyer in the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Tanguy BOUCHER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Érik BOUCHER DE CRÈVECOEUR, lead health engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Valérie BOURRIQUEN, legal expert in the data protection officer department in the compliance department; Ms. Flora BRAC DE LA PERRIERE, lawyer in the economic affairs department of the compliance department; Mr. Amine BRAHMI, information systems auditor in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Mrs Justine BRAIVE, lawyer in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Mr. Rodolphe BRÉARD, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms Véronique BREMOND, lawyer in the exercise of rights and complaints department of the rights protection and sanctions; Ms Émilie BRUNET, lawyer in the European and international affairs department; Ms Solenn BRUNET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms Sarah BULLY, lawyer in the exercise of rights and complaints to the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control department at the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Marjolaine CASSAR, lawyer in the control department at the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Madeleine CAZETTES DE SAINT LEGER, lawyer at the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Lucie CHARTRAIN, Legal Officer in the Exercise of Rights and Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Virginie CLAUDE-LOONIS, assistant to the head of the sanctions and litigation department in the department for the protection of rights and penalties; Mr. Antoine COURMONT, digital sociologist in the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department; Mrs. Erika COURSAUX, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Olivier COUTOR, in charge of studies in the department of relations with the public and research; Mr. Thomas DAUTIEU, Director of Compliance; Ms Manon de FALLOIS, Deputy Head of the Health Department in the Compliance Department; Ms Marion de GASQUET, Legal Officer in the Department of Sovereign Affairs and Local Authorities in the Compliance Department; Mrs Alice DE LA MURE, lawyer in the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department; Mrs Justine DEBOTÉ, Registry Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Christine DECHESNE-CEARD, head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department;Mr. Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Isabelle DELERUE, in charge of legal investigation at the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr. Grégoire DELETTE, lawyer in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Mrs. Amélie DELEUZE, lawyer in the control department at the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Éric DELISLE, head of the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department; Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, Director of Public Relations and Research; Ms Maryange DICHI, Information Systems Auditor in the Controls Department of the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Ms Sadio DIOUMASSY, Legal Investigation Officer in the department for the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Julien DROCHON, lead information systems auditor in the control department of the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Antoine DROIN, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Gabrielle DU BOUCHER, lawyer in the Exercise of Rights and Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and sanctions; Mrs Marie DUBOYS FRESNEY, assistant to the head of the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, Assistant to the Head of the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Louis DUTHEILLET DE LAMOTHE, Secretary General; Mrs Viktorija ELENSKI, Legal Officer in the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Mrs Anne FONTANILLE, Legal Officer in the European and International Affairs Department; Mrs Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects with the secretary general;Mr. Thomas FRESSIN, information systems auditor in the control department of the protection of rights and sanctions department; Ms Aurore GAIGNON, lawyer in the health department of the compliance department; Mr. Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Antoine GAUME, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Rodolphe GÉNISSEL, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, Deputy Head of the Exercise of Rights and Complaints Department in the rights and sanctions; Ms Zelda GÉRARD, legal expert in the compliance tools department of the compliance department; Mr. Mathieu GINESTET, lawyer in the data protection delegates department in the compliance department; Ms. Laurène GOIRAND, information systems auditor in the control department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Yoann GONTHIER LE GUEN, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Jérôme GORIN, research and development engineer in the service of the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department; Mrs Sarah GUILLOU, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation service in the rights protection and sanctions department; Mrs Hélène GUIMIOT-BREAUD, head of the health department in the compliance department; Mr. Basile GULEY, lawyer in the department of social issues and human resources in the compliance department; Mrs. Estelle HARY, designer in the department of the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department; Mr. Paul HÉBERT, Deputy Director of Compliance; Ms Clarisse HESLAUT, Legal Officer in the Exercise of Rights and Complaints Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Armand HESLOT, Head of the Technological Expertise Department in the Technology and Innovation Department; Ms. Marie HEUZÉ, Legal Officer in the Sovereign Affairs and Local Authorities Department in the Compliance Department; Ms. Agathe HUBERT, Legal Officer in the controls at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Sonia HUDELA, in charge of legal investigation in the exercise of rights and complaints department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms Nathalie JACQUES, assistant in the control department in the rights protection and sanctions department; Mrs. Amandine JAMBERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Hugo JAUFFRET, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Julien JEDRZEJCZAK, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Véronique JENNEQUIN, legal assistant in the control service of the direction of protection of rights and Sanctions; Ms. Karin KIEFER, Director for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Mr. Anton KISYELYOV, jurist in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and penalties; Mr. Jérémie KOUZMINE, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Mr. Michel KRAMER, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Ms. Marine LACHEVER, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department; Ms. Névine LAHLOU, legal expert in the the exercise of rights and complaints to the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Nina LE BONNIEC, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities; Mr. Alexis LEAUTIER, Expert Engineer in the Technological Expertise Department of the Technology and Innovation Department; Ms. Delphine LEGOHÉREL, Deputy Director of Rights Protection and Sanctions; Ms. Noémie LICHON, Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department to the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Ms Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, Legal Officer in the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Mrs Isabelle MANTZ, Legal Officer in the Service for Sanctions and Litigation in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Delphine MARGULIS, Legal Investigation Officer in the Exercise of Rights and Complaints Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Astrid MARIAUX, Head of the Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Tony MARTIN, Deputy Head of the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Clothilde MAULIN, Legal Officer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Ms. Oriane MAURICE, lawyer in the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mr. Étienne MAURY, Legal Adviser to the President and the Secretaries General; Ms Marjorie MENAPACE, Deputy Head of the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department; Ms Élise MERY-BOUDONNAT, Legal Officer in the Exercise Department Rights and Complaints to the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;Mr. Thomas MOREAU, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department; Mr. Mathias MOULIN, Deputy Secretary General; Ms Sophie NERBONNE, Director in charge of economic co-regulation; Ms Ingrid NKOUENJIN, Head of the Compliance Tools Department in the Compliance Department; Ms Rabia OUADDAH, Legal Officer in the exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Rights and Sanctions Protection Department; Ms. Marie PACALET, Legal Officer in the Social Issues and Human Resources Department at the Compliance Department; Mr. Bertrand PAILHÈS, director of technologies and innovation; Mrs Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr Benoît PELLAN, in charge of the development of tools for compliance to the compliance department; Mrs Lorraine PERRONNE, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities; Mr. Antoine PLANCHOT, information systems auditor in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Mr. Benjamin POILVÉ, expert engineer in the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department; Ms. Laetitia RACINE, assistant to the head of the exercise of rights and complaints department in the department for the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Florence RAYNAL, head of the European and international affairs department; Mr. Vincent RASNEUR, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Antoine RICART, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs Albane RICHET, lawyer in the service of sanctions and litigation in the direction of protection of rights and sanctions; Ms Ismini RIGOPOULOU, jurist in the European and international affairs department; Ms Caroline RILOS MACIAS, legal assistant in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department; Valentin ROGER, head of information systems security at the General Secretariat; Ms Anne-Charlotte ROUGELIN, legal advisor in the public relations department in the public relations and research department; Ms Mathilde ROUSSEL, legal assistant in the Controls Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department; Mrs. Stéphanie SAULNIER, lawyer in the Social Affairs and Human Resources Department in the Compliance Department; Mr. Benoit SEGUIN, Head of the Department for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints in the Department for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions; Ms. Jeanne TADEUSZ, Head of the Department for Sovereign Affairs and Local Authorities in the Compliance Department; Ms. Lola TAIEB, lawyer in the service of sanctions and litigation in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs. Jamila TAZI, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of protection of rights and sanctions; Mrs. Yunita TCHOUN KONG SAM, in charge of the development of tools in the department of compliance tools in the compliance department; Mr. Vincent TOUBIANA, head of the digital innovation laboratory department in the technology and innovation department; Mrs. Margaux TRANCART, assistant to the head of the exercise of rights and complaints department in the department for the protection of rights and penalties; Mr. Félicien VALLET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department; Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, Head of the Controls Department in the Protection of Rights and Sanctions Department; Ms Anne VIDAL, Legal Officer in the Data Protection Delegates Department in the Compliance Department; Ms Albine VINCENT, Head of the Delegates Department Data Protection Compliance Department;Mr. Paul VINCENT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions; Mr.Christophe VIVENT, cybersecurity engineer specialized in handling incidents in the service of technological expertise in the direction of technologies and innovation; Mrs Clémentine VOISARD, project manager in the public relations department. Article 2: Decision no. HAB-2022-002 of April 14, 2022 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification is repealed.Article 3: The clearances mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years.Article 4: This decision shall take effect from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the French Republic.The President, Marie-Laure DENIS