Summary of ANSPDCP activity - 2019


In order to meet the objective of the National Supervisory Authority to provide information to operators, data subjects and the general public, we present a summary of the most significant aspects of the activity of the National Supervisory Authority carried out during 2019.
Thus, in 2019, the National Supervisory Authority received a total number of 6,193 complaints, notifications and notifications regarding security incidents, based on which 912 investigations were opened.
As a result of the investigations, 28 fines were applied in a total amount of 2,339,291.75 lei.
A further 134 warnings were issued and 128 corrective actions were ordered.
In 2019, regarding the activity of resolving complaints, the Supervisory Authority received a total number of 5808 complaints, based on which 527 investigations were initiated.
Regarding security incidents, in 2019 the data operators transmitted, both under the RGPD and Law no. 506/2004, a number of 233 notifications, and the notifications regarding possible non-compliances with the provisions of the RGPD amounted to a number of 152.
As a result of the notifications received and the security breaches notified by the personal data operators, during 2019, a number of 385 ex officio investigations were opened at the level of the Supervisory Authority.
Also, in the context of cooperation with other supervisory authorities in order to ensure mutual assistance, some 30 requests were handled regarding the application and compliance with Regulation (EU) 679/2016.
At the same time, during 2019, a number of 1106 requests for the issuance of views on various issues regarding the interpretation and application of Regulation (EU) 679/2016 by operators and their proxies were addressed to the National Supervisory Authority from public and private domain, by other entities as well as by individuals.
In addition, the operators, the public and the persons concerned were also informed through the over 80 answers provided to citizens and the media, both in the country and abroad, according to Law no. 544/2001.
Regarding the activity of representation in court, the National Supervisory Authority has managed a number of 207 cases pending before the courts at various stages of the proceedings.
During 2019, the operators continued to declare those responsible for data protection, registering with the National Supervisory Authority a number of 4318 managers appointed by the operators in the public and private sector.
During 2019, the National Supervisory Authority continued its communication activities aimed at informing the general public about the specific rules for the processing of personal data, in the context of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
Thus, to celebrate the European Day of Data Protection, the National Supervisory Authority organized the Conference on "Ensuring compliance with the European Regulation on data protection and applicable national regulations", at the Palace of Parliament, on January 28, 2019.
The event provided an opportunity for debate on the application of the new requirements of the General Regulation on data protection, of Law no. 129/2018 and of Law no. 190/2018 on some measures for the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, also related to the competences of the Authority.
To mark this event, the Supervisory Authority prepared and made available to the public some informative materials (brochures, leaflets) dedicated to the European Data Protection Day.
Also, on the occasion of the celebration of one year since the application of Regulation (EU) 679/2016, the National Supervisory Authority organized, in May 2019, a series of events in order to increase the awareness of the general public on the new rules of insurance protection of personal data and the specific rights enjoyed by individuals.
In this regard, an anniversary debate was organized on May 24, 2019 - 1 year by GDPR - at the institution's headquarters, attended by representatives of professional associations and unions (Romanian Association of Direct Marketing - ARMAD, Union of Romanian Legal Advisers Colleges - UCCJR, Romanian Association of Banks - ARB, Association of Trade Claims Management - AMCC, Romanian Audit Office Transmedia - BRAT, Association of Romanian Mobile Operators - AOMR, National Union of Insurance-Reinsurance Companies of Romania - UNSAR, Association for Assets Practices GDPR, Association of Communes.
Issues of practical applicability, in particular with regard to the data protection officer, ensuring the rights of data subjects, assessing the impact on data protection, codes of conduct and notifying the breach of personal data security, were discussed during the discussions.
To mark the occasion, the Supervisory Authority also launched a Guide to Questions and Answers on the Application of Regulation (EU) 679/2016.
In addition, with the support of the Bucharest Transport Company - STB SA, for these events a public interest message was broadcast on public transport regarding the main issues regulated by Regulation (EU) 2016/679, and at the headquarters of the Authority was organized "Open Day".
The same message was broadcast through the television system available on the subway premises and at Henri Coanda International Airport.
Throughout 2019, our institution has actively participated in the most important events in the field of data protection, organized by various public institutions or private entities, including non-governmental organizations.
At these meetings, the representatives of the National Supervisory Authority clarified certain aspects regarding the conditions of use of data, respect for the rights of data subjects and ensuring the confidentiality of the processing of personal data, which reflects the continuity of the Authority's openness to civil society.
In this context, we mention that the Supervisory Authority participated in a series of conferences, symposia and seminars, in Bucharest and in the country, such as:

 in Cluj-Napoca, Iași, Constanța and Timișoara, at meetings organized by the Expert Forum Association, for the holding of lectures on data processing by NGOs;
 at the Institution of the Prefect of Timiș County and the Institution of the Prefect of Mehedinți County, for holding seminars on “Data protection in local public administration”;
 in Sinaia, for the participation in the conference "Training program for national minority organizations - financial assistance and use of sums from the state budget";
 in Bucharest, at the Bucharest Chamber of Commerce and Industry, to give a lecture at the “Data protections Solutions and Responsibilities” conference;
 in Bucharest, at the National Union of Notaries Public (UNNP) for a lecture on data protection in the Colloquium organized by this professional forum;
 in Bucharest, at the European Institute of Romania (IER) for a lecture entitled “Protection of personal data in employment relationships”;
 in Bucharest, at the conference entitled “GDPR Talks”, for a lecture, as well as at other conferences organized by public or private institutions;
 in Bucharest, at the dedicated GDPR conference, organized by a law firm to hold a lecture.

On the other hand, I would like to point out that advice has been given to several public and private operators on how to implement the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, making explicit and clarifying a number of measures that operators are required to implement. implement them in order to comply with the provisions of this Regulation.
Thus, the Supervisory Authority participated in the meetings of some inter-institutional working groups in order to discuss some draft normative acts initiated by some ministries, but also on various complex issues related to the protection of personal data.
Therefore, meetings were held with public authorities and institutions, both at their headquarters and at the headquarters of the Supervisory Authority, such as: National Authority for Consumer Protection, Inspectorate for Emergency Situations, Ministry of Justice, Superior Council of Magistracy, Authority National Office for Administration and Regulation in Communications, Ministry of Health, National Office for Prevention and Combating Money Laundering, National Health Insurance House, Permanent Electoral Authority, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including Government Agent for CJEU, National Council for the Study of Security Archives.
At the same time, the Supervisory Authority also participated in the specialized parliamentary commissions in order to support some proposals or draft laws aimed at aspects of personal data protection.
With regard to private sector operators, working meetings were held at the headquarters of the Supervisory Authority, during which discussions were held on issues regarding the legal conditions of data processing in various fields of activity, as well as on the drafting of codes of conduct. conducted by some operators' associations.
Thus, meetings were held with the Romanian Association of Banks (ARB), SC Biroul de Credit SA, the Romanian Audit Office Transmedia (BRAT), Vodafone Romania SA, Telekom, the Association of Romanian Mobile Operators (AOMR), the Romanian Chamber of Commerce American (AmCham), the Council of Foreign Investors (FIC), the National Union of Insurance-Reinsurance Companies of Romania (UNSAR), Raiffeisen Bank, as well as law firms representing the operators, the Romanian Accreditation Association - RENAR, the Association of Confidentiality Specialists and Data Protection (ASCPD), Expert Forum.
Prompt and efficient information of individuals, but also of operators, was made through the Authority's website, both in terms of the 48 press releases posted in the "News" section, and the information from the special section dedicated to the Regulation General on Data Protection.
In this context, we recommend consulting the brochure dedicated to the European Data Protection Day - 2020, available in the section General information / Information of public interest / Information materials.
 

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.