 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, June 26, 2019

 

 

press release

 

BayLDA offers online advice

The Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) has its web
website (www.lda.bayern.de) revised and the range of online services
continues. In addition to filing complaints, notification of
data breaches and the reporting of data protection officers
there is now the possibility of an online consultation.

 

 

It was and is important for the BayLDA to inform companies, clubs, associations and citizens about it
to advise what data protection means and what requirements the
applicable General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) actually provides.

In 2017 and 2018 there was a significant
uncertainty about these new requirements
place,
the
Requests for advice from the BayLDA have exploded. Of
approx. 3,000 inquiries in 2016 and 3,800 inquiries in
In 2017, the number rose to over 9,000 in 2018.

guided

to

that

Has,

the

This development not only among the Bavarians
supervisory authorities, but also to the other authorities
supervisory authorities in Germany
to the discussion of whether and to what extent
supervisory authorities must offer advice. Most
Supervisory authorities came to the conclusion that the DS-GVO the data protection supervisory authorities
does not (any longer) force you to provide consulting services. Some orient themselves especially because of this
because they do not have the capacity to provide this service. The BayLDA also stood
shortly before.

Even if one follows the view that advice is not a mandatory task, the BayLDA has itself
decided to continue within the framework of the existing human and material resources
to offer consultations.

"Any advice that leads to a data protection violation not occurring in the first place is better than any
Fine for a data protection violation committed,” says Thomas Kranig, President of the BayLDA.

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

 

- 2 -

 

President Thomas Kranig was able to make this decision despite the enormous increase
Number of complaints and notifications of data breaches, their handling and
doubtful is a duty of the supervisor to meet after by personal
Deployment of Minister of State Joachim Herrmann that BayLDA will soon be able to
to hire additional staff.

 

In order to make the advisory service more effective, the BayLDA now offers the option of a

Online advice for citizens (persons affected) and companies, clubs, associations, consultants, etc.

(Responsible) to. Whoever makes an inquiry must first state whether they are the data subject or the person responsible

is more literal, and can then select a subject area to which the question relates. There-

From now on, the information available on the website is displayed in the hope that

the answer is already there. If this is not the case, the questioner will be prompted for a

mular, where he can enter his contact details and the question. The questioner

can then print out his entries after sending the consultation request and immediately receives

sent an e-mail as confirmation of receipt. There is another one for questions from those responsible

small hurdle installed. They must give their own opinion on their question before it is sent

so that, ideally, the BayLDA only has to reply: We agree.

The questions are evaluated. If it is found that several questions on the same topic
been asked, the FAQs will be expanded accordingly in order to give other questioners the answers
to offer the word immediately.

This possibility of online advice supplements from the point of view of eGovernment and

ler use of digitization the already existing possibilities, complaints, messages

of data protection violations or reports from data protection officers online

average

 

 "We hope that in the future we will receive advice requests online as far as possible, as this

through the automatic transfer of contact data and subject areas, direct assignment

information in the BayLDA and facilitated answering. For complaints and notification of

Data Breaches has lived up to that expectation. About 70% of all complaints and 95% of all

Notifications of data protection violations reach us via the online offers on our website



 

- 3 -

 

Website: www.lda.bayern.de. The 24,796 notifications of data

protection officer (as of June 25, 2019), we would never have been able to record and process if we

said Thomas Kranig, President of the BayLDA.

 

 

Thomas Kranig

president

