

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in connection with the operation of paid parking zones in the capital city of Prague (ELTODO, a.s.)



Based on its inspection plan, the Office carried out an inspection pursuant to Act No. 101/2000 Coll., the subject of which was the processing of personal data related to the monitoring of publicly accessible spaces through camera systems located on the roofs of cars operated by ELTODO, a.s. This monitoring is carried out in order to control the payment of parking fees in paid parking zones in the capital city of Prague as part of the www.parkujvklidu.cz project. The inspection focused mainly on evaluating the lawfulness of the transfer of personal data to individual entities involved in the process of controlling the payment of parking fees and related procedures and on compliance with the obligations under § 5 (principles of processing and its legality), § 13 (security of personal data) and § 20 (disposal of data) Act No. 101/2000 Coll.



The inspectors found that the administrator of personal data is the capital city of Prague, the processor of personal data is the Technical Administration of Communications. m. Prahy, a.s., in relation to the processing of personal data to the extent necessary for the performance of the activities entrusted to it during the operation of paid parking zones. The Office evaluated the contract on the processing of personal data as a contract corresponding to the requirements of § 6 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.



In relation to the subject of the control (processing of personal data related to the monitoring of publicly accessible spaces through camera systems located on the roof of cars operated by a controlled person for the purpose of controlling the payment of parking fees in paid parking zones in the capital city of Prague within the framework of www.parkujvklidu.cz) the controlled person is according to § 14 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. in the position of a person processing personal data on the basis of a contract concluded with the processor. This contract is based on the processing contract concluded between the administrator and the processor.



The Office found that the controlled person processes personal data obtained from the monitoring of registration plates of road motor vehicles parked in paid parking zones in accordance with § 14, i.e. only under the conditions and to the extent set by the administrator and the processor. At the same time, it processes only the personal data necessary to fulfill this purpose and only for the necessary time.



In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.


The inspection was conducted by inspector Ing. Josef Vacula.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of personal data processing in connection with the operation of paid parking zones in the territory of the Capital City of Prague (ELTODO, a.s.)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



