1/14

 Procedure No.: PS/00065/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 06/27/2019 it has entry in the Spanish Protection Agency
Data (AEPD) a claim filed by Don A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant) against the association BLIND SPANISH CATHOLICS ORGANIZED
with NIF R5000907E (hereinafter the claimed or CECO).

The claim deals with the application form for the registration and cancellation of their
partners that CECO began using in 2019. This form, which was approved
by the Board of Directors of the entity claimed, in the opinion of the claimant, a member of
the association, does not comply with the regulations on the protection of personal data
staff. The claimant adds that the employee registration application form in 2018
nor was it respectful of the norms that regulate the right to protection of
personal data, and asks the AEPD to "urge CECO to develop a model
request for registration and cancellation of partners that complies with Spanish legislation on matters
protection of personal data and image rights”.

Provide with your claim a copy of the following documents:

- As Annex 1, a copy of the registration application form, which bears the an-
program of the claimed association, and in which, under the heading "Application for registration
in CECO” “Document to the attention of the Secretary of the Association of the Blind
Spanish Catholics (CECO)”, includes spaces for the identification data of
a person, in particular those related to the name, surnames, NIF and the Diocese
to which it belongs. Subsequently, the document indicates that the person thus
identified “hereby requests to belong as a member of
the Association of the Spanish Catholic Blind (CECO). He then says:
"Then we proceed to give the necessary data for registration." It is-
These data are the postal address, indicating the town, province and code.
I say postcard; birth date; landline and mobile phones, email address
tronics and the “literacy system”. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

In an independent paragraph, it includes this legend: “The applicant for this inscription
tion, you are aware that the data reflected in this registration will be
manipulated by the Association of Blind Spanish Catholics (CECO) which
is responsible for the proper use of them.

 And he adds: “..., authorizes the Association of Blind Spanish Catholics (CECO)
to be able to manipulate their image in any act that the association carries out and that
is aware that this material (recordings, photos, videos...) will form part
te from the association file”. Below is the “Signature of the applicant”.

- As Annex II, provide a copy of the registration application form that the claim

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

mada used in 2018. With the heading "CECO member file" is re-
take the following data: the Diocese of which you are a member; the dates of
high and low; the name and surnames; the domicile, indicating the town,
province and ZIP; landline and mobile phones; the DNI; the email; the date
of birth; the profession and the disability suffered by the person. followed-
This legend is included and below it the signature of the interested party is requested.
do: “Data Protection. In compliance with the provisions of the Organic Law
15/1999, it is reported that the personal data obtained through the
completion of this form will be incorporated, for your
treatment, in an automated file. In accordance with the provisions of the
aforementioned Organic Law, the interested party can exercise the rights of access,
rectification, cancellation and opposition of the data obtained in this
form at any time.

SECOND: In view of the claim, the AEPD, within the framework of file E/
8567/2019, by means of a letter dated 09/26/2019, transferred it to the respondent and
He requested information on the facts denounced. The notification was made to
through postal mail. The document of the S.E. Correos y Telégrafos, S.A.E., “Test
of delivery”, which is in the file, proves that the claimed received the
notification on 10/01/2019.

On 10/09/2019, the response of the respondent with which
attached nine documents. He declares that, as can be verified, "he has tried in
accommodate at all times what the legislation required in each case”, hence
that it has been “necessary to write a new application in accordance with the new norm and
ask all members already registered in CECO to sign the new application”.

The documents submitted are the following:

a.- As Annex 1, the "CECO member file", a document that was also provided by the
claimant and that has been described in the First Background Annex II, a description that
we consider reproduced.

b.- As Annex 2, a document is provided that the respondent identifies as "the
new registration application model made after the approval of the Protection Law
2018 data…”. This document is the same one that the claimant sent and that is
described in the First Precedent as annex I; description we give here for
reproduced.

c.- Annex 3 is the welcome letter that the respondent states that she sends to the
new associates. From this document, we transcribe for your interest the paragraphs
penultimate and penultimate:
           “By filling out the enrollment application…you gave us permission to manipulate your
data, image, sound... all this you can modify when you think it convenient or
suffer some alteration”.

  “At the time of any communication with us you have the following

channels. Email: Secretaria@ceco.org.es. Corporate phone…”

d.- Annex 4 collects the query that the president of the claimed association directed
to the Legal Office of the AEPD in April 2019. The query was formulated in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

following terms and there is no record in this Agency that with the written reference the
claimed had sent to the Legal Office of the AEPD any attached document:
“A natural person who does not sign the document that allows the association to
use your data, can you be a full member of that association?

e.- Annex 5 corresponds to the Report issued by the AEPD responding to the
inquiry of the claimant.

f.- Identified as annex 6, the document dated 06/21/2019 is provided that the
*** POSITION.1 (...) addressed the Board of Directors of the claimed association exposing
the irregularities observed in the form that must be completed by the person who intends to
be admitted as an associate, in summary, the following: (i) the document does not report
expressly and unequivocally of the existence of a file or data processing or
the purpose of the collection. (ii) it does not guarantee the right of the member to
access, rectify, cancel or oppose the processing of your data in accordance with the LOPD
and development regulations. (iii) the document does not contain the identity and
address of the data controller. (iv) does not report that, in any
circumstance, the member's data will be transferred without the mandatory and express
consent of the owner of the data. (v) a simple procedure is not established and
free for the associate to revoke consent. (vi) consent to the
treatment of the image has to be done in a document different from the one in which
that you consent to the processing of your personal data, requesting authorization in
each case.

g.- Annex 7: Letter from ***POSITION.2 addressed to ***POSITION.1 through the person making the accusation
receipt of your letter.

h.- Annex 8 is the letter dated 10/04/2019 addressed to ***POSITION.1 which, in
response to the brief filed on 06/21/2019, he sent the ***POSITION.2 according to
the agreements adopted by the General Meeting on October 2 and 3, 2019. In the
letter it is stated that “…after the elevated consultation…to the Data Protection Agency,
that has been answered on May 8, 2019, it can only be concluded that the
registration document in CECO is fully legal since it clearly indicates
that: <<Consequently, the treatment of personal data raised, will be lawful of
in accordance with the provisions of section 1b) of article 6 of the RGPD, as it is a
a partnership and to the extent that each partner enters into the form legally
set>>”. The respondent concludes in that writing that it cannot be spoken of
anomalies in the CECO registration document because, it says, “the Agency for the Protection of
Data has declared the entire procedure lawful.

i.- The last document provided (Annex 9) is "the new application form for registration"
-that is, the model approved in the year 2019 on which this is about
claim- "completed and signed by D. A.A.A." According to explanations of
claimed this document was delivered on behalf of the claimant by another member
of the association on 04/28/2019. It further adds that the claimant is a member of
CECO since 04/06/2018.

THIRD: In view of the documentation held by the AEPD, sent by both the
claimant as by the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.5
of Organic Law 3/2018, on Data Protection and Guarantee of Rights

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

Digital (LOPDGDD), on 02/26/2020 it is agreed to admit this
claim.

FOURTH: On June 3, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), typified in article 83.5 of
the aforementioned standard.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement was notified, the respondent, on 06/11/2020, presented
pleadings statement stating the following:

“FIRST.- That CECO is a non-profit association dedicated
fundamentally to the spiritual and moral promotion of people with disabilities
visual, caring for blind people who are sick or admitted to a residence. CECO
Since its constitution, it has dedicated its best efforts and will to the
compliance with the regulations that may be applicable in the various areas,
including the protection of personal data, having carried out in good faith all the
actions that it has considered necessary to safeguard the rights of its
members and comply with the applicable regulations, counting for the purposes of the
carrying out said activity with means that have proven to be clearly
insufficient and very limited. Proof of the affirmation, as indicated in the Resolution, is
the circumstance that the previous President of the association addressed a query to the
Legal Office of the AEPD in April 2019, which was promptly answered.

SECOND.- That once he became aware of the claim filed, with
dated June 27, 2019, at the Data Protection Agency by one of its
associates, addressed a response to this body certifying that said requests
intended to obtain data from its associates had been modified to the object
that its content was in accordance with the new standard with the intention of sending to all
members already registered in CECO authorization for the processing of their data
personal.

THIRD.- That notwithstanding the foregoing, having submitted said document to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, a query was made to a person
specialized in such issues who collaborated in the drafting of a new model
file designed to request the personal data of all those people who
They will express their desire to become part of the association.

FOURTH.- That on December 3, 2019, said record in its new wording
complying with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD was sent to all
CECO coordinators in order to obtain your express consent both
regarding the treatment of personal data as well as in what refers to the
images. Attached to this letter as document Annex No. 1 email
sent electronically and as a document Annex No. 2 model file that accompanies the
aforementioned email.

FIFTH.- That these new records have been prepared, any possible omission of
the information detailed in article 13 of the RGPD and from which a
non-compliance with the aforementioned article 13.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

SIXTH.- That, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Resolution received that initiates the
sanctioning procedure mentions issues that have been considered relevant
in order to further increase the transparency of data processing
requested to the members of the association:

a) The validity of the particular legal business by virtue of which the condition is acquired
of associate requires that whoever is going to be associate knows and previously accepts the Statutes
of the association. Consequently, the processing of personal data raised
will be
lawful in accordance with the provisions of section 1.b) of article 6 of the RGPD when
be an association and to the extent that each partner enters in the form
legally established in the organization accepting the corresponding statutes.
(See page 8
of the Resolution).

b) Inclusion of CECO's tax identification number.

c) Reference in the file itself to the consequences derived from non-authorization
by
part of the applicant to the processing of their personal data.

Based on the foregoing, a new sheet has been prepared attached to this writing as
Annex nº 3 that will be used in the future.

SEVENTH. – That he acknowledges that the registration application form object of the
claim that initiates this sanctioning procedure, did not provide all the
information required by article 13 of the RGPD, but as stated in the
previous sections, this association has subsequently carried out notable
efforts to adapt it for the purposes of compliance with each and every one of the
requirements detailed in the mentioned in the article, and notwithstanding that
additionally, the special circumstances that concur in this
entity while making a broad interpretation of the criterion that inspires the
Recital 148 of the RGPD, according to which the sanction of
warning when the imposition of a fine constitutes a burden
disproportionate that without any doubt would cause the end of the activity of the
association with the consequent damage to all its members. Also indicate the
mentioning Whereas special attention should however be paid to the
nature, seriousness and duration of the infraction, its intentional nature, the
measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree of
liability or any relevant prior violation.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claim is specified in the application form for registration and cancellation
of its associates that CECO began using in 2019, which, according to the complainant,
member of the association, does not comply with the data protection regulations of
personal character.

The registration request form, to which the claimant refers, includes spaces for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

the identification data of a person, in particular those related to the name, surnames,
NIF and the Diocese to which it belongs. Subsequently, the document indicates that the
person so identified "hereby requests to belong as a member
of the Association of the Spanish Catholic Blind (CECO). He then says, “Follow
We proceed to give the necessary data for registration. These data are the
postal address, indicating the town, province and postal code; the date of
birth; landline and mobile telephones, the electronic address and the “literacy system”
creature”. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

In an independent paragraph, it includes this legend: "The applicant for this registration has
proof that the data reflected in this registration will be handled by the
Association of the Spanish Catholic Blind (CECO) which is responsible for the
good use of them”.

 And he adds: “..., authorizes the Association of the Blind Spanish Catholics (CECO) to be able to
manipulate its image in any act that the association carries out and that it is aware of.
that this material (recordings, photos, videos...) will be part of the archive of the
association". Below is the “Signature of the applicant”.

SECOND: The respondent presents, together with her allegations, the document of the
Application for Registration in CECO, in which, after the collection of personal data,
includes information about the data controller; purpose; legitimation;
data recipients; rights that can be exercised, address to address,
adding the possibility of filing a claim with the AEPD.

At the end of the document, consent is requested for the realization and use of
images, sound and video exclusively for the purposes indicated above and for
can be published in:

· The website and profiles on social networks of the Association.
· Filming aimed at disseminating the Association's activities.
· Photographs for magazines or publications related to the Association.

Next, there are two boxes, without pre-checking, with the options: I authorize/I do not authorize.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 85, Termination in sanctioning procedures, of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, in its first section, establishes the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

The respondent expressly indicates the following in its pleadings brief to the
initiation agreement: “That it recognizes that the registration application form object of the
claim that initiates this sanctioning procedure, did not provide all the
information required by article 13 of the RGPD, but as stated in the
previous sections, this association has subsequently carried out notable
efforts to adapt it for the purposes of compliance with each and every one of the
requirements detailed in the mentioned in the article.”

III

Article 5 of the RGPD regarding the principles that must govern the processing of data
personal mentions among them that of transparency. Section 1 of the provision provides
ne: “The personal data will be:
          a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party
(«lawfulness, loyalty and transparency»)”
Manifestation of the principle of transparency is the obligation incumbent on the res-
responsible for the treatment of informing, in the terms of article 13 of the RGPD, to the
holder of the personal data when they are obtained directly from the interested party:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the res-
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide you with all the
information listed below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
presenter;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
treatment schedule;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate ses of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,
in your case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision
adequacy assessment by the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated
in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference
lack of adequate or appropriate safeguards and means of obtaining
a copy of these or the fact that they have been loaned.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained,
them, the following information necessary to guarantee fair data processing and
transparent:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or
the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right
cho to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent
at any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on
sado in the consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obligated
to provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences
acknowledgments that you do not provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, inform
significant information about applied logic, as well as the importance and con-
planned sequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans the further processing of personal data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, will provide the
received, prior to such further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional relevant information pursuant to paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
measure in which the interested party already has the information.”
Article 5.1.a) of the RGPD sets forth the principle of “lawfulness, fairness and transparency”,
principle in which Recital 39 affects: "All processing of personal data
It must be lawful and fair. For natural persons, it should be made absolutely clear that
are collecting, using, consulting or otherwise processing personal data
that concern them, as well as the extent to which said data is or will be processed. The
The principle of transparency requires that all information and communication regarding the
treatment of said data is easily accessible and easy to understand, and that it is
use simple and clear language. This principle refers in particular to the
information of the interested parties about the identity of the person in charge of the treatment and the
purposes of the same and to the added information to guarantee a fair treatment and
transparent with respect to the affected natural persons and their right to obtain
confirmation and communication of personal data concerning them that are
treatment object. Individuals must be aware of the risks,
the rules, safeguards and rights relating to data processing
as well as how to assert their rights in relation to the
treatment. In particular, the specific purposes of the processing of personal data
they must be explicit and legitimate, and must be determined at the time of collection.
[…]”

For its part, Recital 60 links the duty of information with the principle of
transparency, by establishing that “The principles of fair and transparent treatment
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

require that the interested party be informed of the existence of the treatment operation and
their ends. The data controller must provide the interested party with
supplementary information is necessary to ensure fair treatment and
transparent, taking into account the specific circumstances and context in which
process personal data. The interested party must also be informed of the preparation
of profiles and the consequences of said elaboration. If personal data is
they obtain from the interested parties, they must also be informed if they are obliged to
facilitate them and the consequences if they did not […]”. In this order,
Article 12.1 of the RGPD regulates the conditions to ensure its effectiveness
materialization and article 13 specifies what information must be provided when
data is obtained from the interested party.

III

The claim that we are examining deals with the adequacy of the protection regulations
tion of data from the form that the respondent uses since 2019 to collect the data
Personal data of those who wish to join the association as associates.

This document is in the file in duplicate, provided both by the claimant
as for the one claimed. The respondent has stated that the form was approved
by its General Meeting in 2019 and that through it it was pursued to comply with
compliance with the new obligations that the LOPDGDD imposed on those responsible for
processing of personal data. Obligations that, as indicated, are imposed
really by the RGPD, article 13.

The document in question, which bears the name of "Application for Registration in CECO", was
described in Fact One, Annex I, of this initiation agreement and also refers to
reference to it in the Second Fact paragraph b).

According to the 2019 form prepared and used by the respondent, the person who
provides your data "requests ... to belong as a member of the association of the Blind Es-
Catholic Stores (CECO)” and, further on, the document says: “...they proceed to give
the data necessary for registration. Through the document, it is also collected
plus the name, surnames and NIF, the following personal data: the Diocese to which
belongs to the owner of the data; the postal address, indicating the town, province,
company and postal code; birth date; landline and mobile phones; the elec-
tronics and the “literacy system”.

Thus, examination of the form shows that, through it, the respondent collects
the will of a natural person to join the association and, for this purpose,
collects your personal data. Declaration of will of the applicant who is one of the
elements that make up the special legal transaction by virtue of which the property is acquired.
associate status.

With regard to this matter - the acquisition of associate status, with the exception of
of the founders of the association- the Constitutional Court has repeatedly expressed-
mind that is produced by “an act of integration that constitutes a special business
by which the new associate, previously accepting the Statutes whose knowledge
foundation is mandatory and prior, it is integrated into the association” (STC 218/1988, of 11
november). The validity of that particular legal transaction by virtue of which it is acquired

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

the condition of associate requires that whoever is going to be associate knows and accepts in advance
the Statutes of the association. This is what was reported to the claimant association.
mada in the Report issued by the AEPD on 04/30/2019 in which it was said:

<<Consequently, the treatment of personal data raised will be lawful in accordance with
do with the provisions of section 1.b) of article 6 of the RGPD, as it is a
association, and to the extent that each partner enters in the legally established manner
cide in the organization accepting the corresponding statutes>>
Article 13 of the RGPD provides that when personal data is collected from a
interested -what happens through the CECO form or document object of the
claim- the data controller is obliged, at that precise moment,
that is, when you obtain them, to inform the owner of the data. Information Covered
various issues detailed in article 13 of the RGPD.

In the CECO document that we have examined, all the information should have been included.
training that the precept requires. However, only the name of the
association and its acronym, and this paragraph: “The applicant for this registration has
tance that the data reflected in this registration will be handled by the association
Association of the Spanish Catholic Blind (CECO) which is responsible for the good
use of them”.

The claimed party, in its capacity as data controller, in accordance with article 13
RGPD was obliged to include in the form through which it collects data from
third parties various information that has been totally and absolutely dispensed with. In part-
cular, is obliged to inform about the purposes of the treatment to which the data will be used.
personal data collected. Nor does it report, as was its obligation, on the legal basis
indication of treatment; nor of the recipients of the personal data; of the term during
which will keep the personal data or, not being possible to establish a term, so-
on the criteria used to determine it. It omits that the owner of the data holds the
right to request from the data controller access to their data, rectification
deletion, deletion, limitation of its treatment, to oppose the treatment and portability
ness of the data. Nor does it inform about the right to file a claim with the
controlling authority. It does not inform if automated decisions are going to be adopted to the
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4 of the RGPD, including the preparation of
files, and, if so, on the logic applied and on the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

In short, the registration application form that the respondent has used since
2019 until the modification of the same produced after the receipt of this claim,
to collect personal data did not provide the information required by article 13 of the
GDPR.

The form used violated article 13 of the RGPD conduct that is subsumed
ble in article 83.5 of the RGPD that provides: "Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
of Eur 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, of an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover for the year
previous financial agreement, opting for the highest amount:

(...)

a)
b) The rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD qualifies as very
serious “The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law”. The statute of limitations for very serious offenses
serious cases provided for in Organic Law 3/2018 is three years.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD establishes:

IV

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers

listed below:

a) (..)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

c)...
d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(...)
i) impose an administrative fine under Article 83, in addition to or instead of
of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case”.

In the present case, taking into account the special circumstances that occur in the entity
entity responsible for the infraction and making a broad interpretation of the criterion that
inspires Recital 148 of the RGPD, according to which when the fine that is likely to
mind were imposed constituted a disproportionate burden, it is appropriate to impose the
sanction of warning for the infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, consequence of
the data collection with the 2019 model year, which did not include the sta-
established in the aforementioned article.

v

The respondent accompanies, together with its allegations, the new protection clause
of data that is included in the application for registration as a member of the association. the in-
training provided in it includes all the sections established in the article
ass 13 of the RGPD already mentioned.

Likewise, and at the end of the registration application, it includes a specific section to collect
the consent of the applicant to treat his image. In this case, the legal basis
for the treatment of the image of the person requesting to be a member of the association.
tion does not derive from their status as a member of that -that is, from article 6.1.b) of the
RGPD- but of the consent granted for that specific purpose (article 6.1.a
of the GDPR).

The RGPD (article 3.11) defines the consent of the interested party as “all manifestations

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

free, specific, informed and unequivocal decision by which the interested party
you accept, either by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment
of personal data that concern you” and in its article 7 details the conditions that
the consent must meet to be valid. Among them, point 2 of the precept
He says:

“If the consent of the interested party is given in the context of a declaration
letter that also refers to other matters, the request for consent is submitted
will be in such a way that it is clearly distinguished from other matters, in an intelligible way
and easily accessible and using clear and simple language. None will be binding
part of the declaration that constitutes an infringement of these Regulations”.
On this point, Recital (43) of the RGPD can be brought up, which
He says:

“(...). Consent is presumed not to have been freely given when
allows separate authorization of the different data processing operations per-
despite being appropriate in the specific case, or when compliance with a
contract, including the provision of a service, is dependent on the consent,
even when this is not necessary for such compliance. (The underlining is from the
AEPD)
The old CECO form that accompanied the claim “did not allow” who
requested to be a member of the association and provided their personal data for this purpose.
final “refuse to treat his image”, since both statements had a foot
signature set
While the association is entitled to process the personal data of the associate in
the terms established in the Statutes of the association -Statutes that the applicant has
to know and accept previously-, being the legal basis of the treatment the development
llo of that particular legal transaction by virtue of which the associate is integrated into the association
ciation; For the treatment of the image, the association expressly requests the consent
lying of the affected. They are two independent declarations of will that must
separately, which implies that each one of them must be able to be granted or
be denied independently, without linking one to the other. Transferred to the supposed analysis
established, each of these declarations must necessarily have its own footnote.
ma. On the other hand, regarding the treatment of the image whose consent was requested
in the last stipulation of the form, we must point out that you must also provide
The information required by article 13 RGPD for this particular treatment must be provided.
Any treatment of images of the associates that CECO carried out in the ambit
stopping at a purported consent of the owner collected through the form
examined, while that consent would be invalid, the treatment of the image
gen would constitute a violation of article 6.1.a, in relation to article 7.2, of the
GDPR.
At present, in the registration form in the claimed association, it is reported separately
of the treatment of the data as members of the association and the
express consent, through boxes without pre-marking, for the treatment of the
partner image.

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

The defendant violated the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD because the form through
through which the data of the request of natural persons to be
members of the CECO association did not report in the terms required by that provision.
position. This conduct is typified in article 83.5.b of the RGPD. for what i know
sanctions such behavior with a warning.

However, the association claimed, knowing the claim and the reasons for the
itself, has modified the registration model of the members of the association, informing
of everything required by article 13 of the RGPD, and has included the separate request for
consent to the treatment of the image. So no action is required
correctors.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE THE ORGANIZED CATHOLIC SPANISH BLIND ASSOCIATION
GANIZADOS, with NIF R5000907E, for an infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the SPANISH ASSOCIATION OF THE BLIND
ORGANIZED CATHOLIC ÑOLES.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

938-131120

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

