1/14

815-0419

 Procedure No. PS/00465/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), dated October 29, 2019,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. claims her-
The petition is directed against TIERRA HOTELERA, S.L., with NIF B11899515 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are that they called you on the phone
with an offer of 4 hotel nights in exchange for a relationship of 25 people with
name and telephone number to be able to call them and offer them promotions. The claim-
mante declined the offer for not facilitating these contacts. After consulting the phone
call this Agency, the claimant called the company and recorded the call. During
the course of the conversation he asked them if there could be a problem because
would give them the data of said people without having their consent, for which
they answered no. Indicates a link to access the recording and a certificate.

That according to the complainant took place on the date of: December 12, 2018.

And, among other things, attach the following documentation:

Certificate issued by Logalty, S.L. (B-84492891).

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant of the facts and documents of which he has had co-
knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to
carrying out preliminary investigation actions to clarify the
facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the authorities
des control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that

the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

 In the recording of the telephone call provided by the claimant, it is confirmed
www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

2/14

that the offer offered by the respondent consists of four free hotel nights
tis in exchange for the claimant offering twenty or twenty-five contacts. To
question asked by the claimant if there is no impediment for him to provide
the contacts without having their consent for the assignment, the claim
mada replies that nothing happens, that once she calls them, if she doesn't want-
ren to be called more, they cross out their names and phone numbers.

 Upon request for information from the inspection regarding (i) the activity of
hotel night campaigns, (ii) documentation sent to interested parties
that have contracted an offer, (iii) the way in which they obtain the consent
of the interested parties for the processing of their data and (iv) procedure for
the exercise of the right to delete the data of the interested parties, with a date
On October 29, 2019, this Agency received a letter of allegations sent
do for the claimed stating:

a. That the defendant is a company that sells hotel bonds and that one
Once the purchase is made, an email is sent to the customer, with the purchase invoice
attached, with a foot indicating the data controller, the purpose of the
treatment, the procedure to exercise the rights of the interested party, and indi-
when you can expand the information on the privacy policy vi-
by locating the link https://www.tierrahotelera.es/politica-de-privacidad

b. That the consent of the interested party is obtained during the telephone announcement
by commercial agents where the origin of your data is reported and
requests consent to be able to treat them. In addition, they have a form
where the consent of the interested parties is collected.

c. They have a correct protocol on the exercise of rights collecting
precise instructions on the action to be followed by the claim staff.
demanded in various situations and for each of the rights of the interested party.
do.

And they attach:

 Request for consent.

 Protocol with the instructions to address the rights of the interested parties

 Formal model to deal with the deletion request

It has not been possible to verify if they inform the interested parties about the origin of the
data since we do not have a recording of a telephone conversation made to a
interested party where their data had been obtained from a third party, and it has not been possible to
to find out the functionality of the paper form where this consent is collected.
since the claim does not indicate when it is used or under what circumstances.
Inc. In any case, this form could be delivered to the client together with the bonuses
hotel, but if so, the hiring and treatment would already be done.

THIRD: On December 26, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: On January 14, 2020, allegations were received from TIERRA
HOTELERA, S.L., in which they indicate the following:

<<On the legality of data processing for promotion operations and

marketing.

This company has processed data for the purpose of promotion and marketing
in a lawful manner, since said treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of interests
legitimate rights of this company, without the interests prevailing over said treatment.
for the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested parties. The cause that legitimizes
said treatment is the one foreseen in article 6.1.f of the General Pro-
Data tecton.

The purpose of the company is the intermediation and sale of hotel packages and
of accommodation, and for the development of its object it carries out campaigns in which it offers
potential clients the contracting of hotel reservations at very competitive prices and
with promotions.

 
Sometimes campaigns are offered to clients in which they are offered as pro-
motion the enjoyment of four hotel nights at a promotional price in exchange for recommendations
Mendar the promotion to contacts of the interested party.

 
On some occasions, clients of the company have provided contact information
of people from their family or friends, because they have considered that the services
The services offered by this company are of interest to your relatives or close friends.

 
The data provided by these clients of the company, are only the name and number
telephone number, and are processed to satisfy the legitimate interest of promoting the sale
ta of the products marketed by the company.

 
Prior to data processing, an analysis of the legality of the data has been carried out.
treatment, reaching the conclusion that the treatment is lawful under the
cause of legality provided for in article 6.1.f of the General Regulations for the Protection of
Data.

 
As has been said, the treatment is lawful because it is carried out to satisfy a
legitimate interest of the company, the commercialization of tourist products, is carried out
because it is necessary and proportionate to satisfy said interest and, furthermore, the im-
negative agreement on the interests and rights of the interested parties is null or practically
null mind

 
The risk analysis report carried out before the entry into force is attached.

gor of the General Data Protection Regulation.

 
The data obtained from third parties, only name and telephone, are treated only and exclusively
sively on paper, so that they are collected verbally and transcribed
to a data sheet, not being incorporated into files on computer support unless the
The interested party consents to their treatment or they are treated for the contracting of services or pro-
www.agpd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

ducts marketed by this company.

 
 In the first and only communication that this company maintains with the inter-
sados whose data have been obtained from third parties, which is carried out exclusively by
telephone, the interested party is informed in the terms provided in article 14 of the Regulations.
General Data Protection Document, through reading by the operator, who pre-
has previously been trained and instructed on the procedure to follow, from a document
which contains the following information:
 
Source from which the personal data comes.
The identity and contact details of the data controller

-
-
- That the data object of the treatment is only and exclusively the name and the number

of phone.

-

- That the purpose of the treatment is the commercialization of tourist products and offer-
the services and products that the company markets, that the legitimacy of the treatment
ment arises from the need to satisfy the legitimate interests of the person responsible for the
treatment is of the legitimate interest present the commercialization of tourist products.
- That the data will not be transferred to third parties except with the express consent of the interested party-

do, only in the case of contracting the services or products marketed.

- That the data will be used exclusively for making the call and that it will not

They will be kept if you do not contract products or services marketed by the company.
The existence of the right to request access to data from the data controller
personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of
your treatment, and to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to the portability of
the data and to file a claim with a control authority.

- That the rights can be exercised through written communication addressed to the res-
responsible for the treatment whose contact details are those provided and who also
appear on the website www.tierrahotelera.com, as well as that you can oppose the
treatment for advertising purposes or interest in the deletion of the data by expressing it
in the same phone conversation.

- In the event that the interested party expresses his opposition to the treatment, he is informed of

that at the same time the data is deleted
 

In the event that the interested party decides to contract a product or service,
informs you that your data will be processed for the purpose of formalizing
zation of the contract, that the legality of the treatment derives from its necessity for the
formalization and execution of the contract in which the interested party will be a party and of the
more circumstances provided for in article 13 of the General Protection Regulation
of data.

 
In the event that the contracting of products or services is perfected,
sends the complete information by email accompanied by the written presentation
do by this part to the request for information raised by that Agency.

 
In the event that the interested party does not contract any product or service,
consent to call further ahead and process your data for advertising purposes
informing you of all the circumstances of the intended treatment. If
that you do not consent or state that you oppose the treatment of your
data or request its deletion, the data is immediately deleted.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

 
The claimant's data has been deleted.
 
Prior to processing the data to make the calls,
check the Robinson List for this company to avoid making calls from
advertising content to interested parties who have expressed their desire not to receive calls
advertising calls, to comply with the provisions of article 23.4 of the Law
Organic Personal Data Protection

 
The processing of data obtained from third parties to carry out campaigns
advertising or marketing is recognized as lawful in accordance with the provisions of
recitals 47 and 70 of the General Data Protection Regulation, and in the
In the case of this company, an analysis has been carried out prior to the start of the treatment.
of legality of the treatment and the verification that it is legitimized for the treatment
and that the possible negative effects of the treatment on the rights and interests
of the interested party are null or minimal, since the data processed are exclusively
name and telephone number, that the only treatment that is carried out is its collection and
making a phone call and that once the phone call has been made,
nica, in which consent is requested for the processing of data, if the inte-
resado does not give his consent or expresses his desire that his data not be
processed by the person in charge, the data is deleted

 
On the sanction proposal:
 
  The agreement to start the sanctioning procedure that has been notified to
this part indicates that the sanction that could correspond to this company would be
€20,000 without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

 
 This party, irrespective of the fact that it considers that it has not infringed
no mention whatsoever that makes it deserving of a sanction, since, as has been said before, the
procedure that motivates the initiation of the file is lawful, understands that in any
In this case, a penalty of €20,000 would be disproportionate for the reasons that
listed below.

 
 The treatment object of the sanctioning procedure has been carried out after taking
carried out an analysis of the legality of treatment, in which it has been concluded that it is legitimate
mo the processing of personal data obtained from third parties for advertising purposes,
because it responds to the need to satisfy a legitimate interest of the person responsible for the
treatment and that, in addition, the negative impact on the interests and rights of the in-
teresados is null or practically null.

 
 A protocol has been followed in the treatment to comply with the precepts of the
applicable data protection regulations, and company personnel have been instructed
sa on the way in which treatment should be carried out to inform the interested party.

 
 The interested parties have been informed of all the circumstances foreseen in the
article 14 of the General Data Protection Regulation in the form therein
established.

 
 The data subject to treatment is only the name and telephone number. Not have

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

processed special categories of personal data or data of minors.

 
 The treatment has been carried out for a minimum period of time having-
the data will be deleted if the interested party does not give consent for the treatment
future in the terms that have been exposed or opposes the treatment or requests that
your data is deleted.

 
The data has not been processed without the use of new technologies.
 
 The treatment has affected a minimum number of interested parties who are not
has caused any harm or damage. The only harm that can be caused by the
treatment would consist of a small inconvenience of the interested party for the reception of a
telephone call, which in no case would be made outside of a schedule included in-
between ten and fifteen o'clock.

 
  The treatment object of the procedure has not reported any benefit to

this society.

this between €3,010.

 
This company is a very small company whose share capital

 
 The company has deposited its annual accounts every year except
tion of those of the 2018 financial year, in which it had losses amounting to €2,878.76. I know
accompanies a note from the Mercantile Registry and a copy of the 2018 corporate tax.>>

FIFTH: The Tierra Hotelera entity accompanies the call protocol for potential
customers to offer products and services when their data has been obtained
third-party do, which is as follows:
 

<<Good morning/afternoon Mr./Ms. NAME OF THE POTENTIAL CUSTOMER

 

 

1. We call you from TIERRAHOTELERA SS, which has its address in Jerez de la
Border, Guatemala Street. Andalucía Building, 2, 1º, Local 6 telephone 956 180 504 and
website www.tierrahotelera.es

 

2. We are calling you because you have provided us with your telephone number D. CUSTOMER NAME-
THAT PROVIDES YOU WITH THE CONTACT DETAILS that you have communicated to us that can
interested in the products and services that we want to offer you.

 

3. I inform you that this call can be recorded and that it will be recorded in the event that
accept any of the offers that we want to transfer to you. Do you accept us to record
this conversation and continue with the information we want to pass on to you?

o If the answer is positive, continue with the following points of the protocol
o If the answer is negative. Answer: Excuse us for having called you, I inform you
that your data will be deleted at this time. Thank you for your attention and
Have a good morning/afternoon.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

 

7/14

 

1. That the data we have about you is only your name and the telephone number at

that we are calling you.

 

 

2. These data are processed for the purpose of marketing products.
tourist products and to offer the services and products that the company sells.

 

3. The legitimacy of the treatment comes from the need to satisfy legitimate interests.
We are responsible for the treatment, such as the marketing of tourist products.
cos and make the offer that we will transmit to you if you authorize it.

 

4. The data will not be transferred to third parties unless you expressly give your consent.
maintenance and only in the case of contracting the services or products marketed
for us.

 

5. The data object of the treatment will be used exclusively for the realization of
this call and will not be kept if you do not contract products or services marketed
by the company.

 

6. You have the right to request access to the personal data relating to the interested party, and
its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its treatment, and to oppose the treatment-
as well as the right to data portability and to file a claim.
tion before a control authority.

 

7. The rights can be exercised by written communication addressed to the person in charge
of the treatment whose contact data are those provided and which also appear in
the website www.tierrahotelera.com, as well as that you can oppose the treatment
for advertising purposes or interest in the deletion of the data, stating it in the same
my phone conversation.

 

8. In the event that you express your opposition to the treatment that we are carrying out
your data, you are informed that at this very moment the deletion of
the data.

 

9. May I send you the offer we have for you?

o If the answer is positive, transfer the current offer at the time of

the communication

locution:

 

 

o If the answer is negative, ask for permission to call you later with the following

or “Perhaps you may be interested in us calling you later, in that case we ask for your
consent to process your personal data in order to keep you informed
of promotions and offers and we inform you that the data will not be transferred to third parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

ros, which will be kept until the moment you tell us that you have decided
that we stop the treatment, that you have the rights that I have listed before and
that you can consult the additional and detailed information on Data Protection in
the Privacy Policy of our website: https://www.tierrahotelera.es/politica-depriva-
city”

o Do you give your consent?

 

o If the answer is negative, answer: Excuse us for calling you, I inform you
that your data will be deleted at this time. Thank you for your attention and
Have a good morning/afternoon.
 

10. In the event that the interested party decides to contract any product or service
vice of those offered, you must request the following information and inform them that they are necessary.
recruitment fees:
either
email or landline phone number
either

Name and surnames or DNI or Full address or Address

Mobile phone number

 

Report the following circumstances:

1.
o The data you have provided us will be processed by TIERRAHOTELERA SL with the

purpose of formalization and execution of the contract

o The legitimacy of the treatment derives from the formalized contractual relationship.
o The data will be communicated to tour operators and owners of hotel facilities and
accommodation for the purpose of compliance and execution of the contract. In no case
Data will be transferred to third parties for purposes other than those described in this document.
ment.

o You have the rights that we have informed about before. You can check the information
additional and detailed information on Data Protection in the Privacy Policy of
our website: https://www.tierrahotelera.es/politica-de-privacidad

o This information along with a copy will be sent to the email address

that you have provided us, together with the invoice for the contracted services

 

 

 

 

Farewell: Thank you for your attention and have a good morning / afternoon.>>

FACTS
 

 PROVEN

FIRST: Don A.A.A. received a phone call from TIERRA HOTELERA, S.L.,
offering you 4 hotel nights in exchange for a relationship of 25 people with name and
telephone number to be able to call them and offer them promotions. The claimant-
he declined the offer for not facilitating these contacts. After consulting this Agency, the
www.agpd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

claimant called the company and recorded the call. During the course of the conversion
sation asked them if there could be any problem because he gave them the data of dis-
many people without their consent, to which they answered no. In-
indicates a link to access the recording and a certificate.

SECOND: Subsequently, the claimant called the company and recorded the call. du-
During the course of the conversation, he asked them if there could be a problem because
to give them the data of said people without having their consent, for which
which they answered no. Provide the recording and a certificate of it.

THIRD: Tierra Hotelera, S.L., collects on paper the name and telephone number of the persons
nas whose data is provided by a third party. Check if it is on the Robinson List, and if not
is calling him.

FOURTH: When calling you, it informs you of the origin of your data and the information established
given in article 13 and 14 of the RGPD. If you don't want information, they delete the data immediately.
diat.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the provisions of article 84.3 of the LGT, it is attributed to the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection the power to impose sanctions
established by the violation of the rights of end users, recognized in
Article 48 of the aforementioned LGT.

II

In accordance with the provisions of article 55 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL, of April 27, 2016,
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and the free circulation of these data and by which the
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), (hereinafter
RGPD), the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to perform
the functions assigned to it in its article 57, among them, that of enforcing the
Regulation and promote the awareness of those responsible and those in charge of
treatment about the obligations incumbent on them, as well as treating the
claims filed by an interested party and investigate the reason for them.

III

Article 95 of the RGPD, referring to the relationship with Directive 2002/58/CE, of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of July 12, 2002, regarding the treatment of
personal data and the protection of privacy in the sector of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

electronic communications (Directive on privacy and electronic communications
electronic), establishes the following:

This Regulation will not impose additional obligations on persons
physical or legal in terms of treatment within the framework of the provision of services
of electronic communications in public communication networks of the
Union in areas in which they are subject to specific obligations with the same
objective set out in Directive 2002/58/EC.

In general, if a natural person does not wish to receive calls
commercial or advertising of a promotional nature must be directed, previously, to the
natural or legal person, whether or not he is a client of the same, identifying himself as the owner of
the telephone line on which you do not want to receive commercial calls and, stating
said opposition, your personal data may not be used for said purpose.

Both the RGPD and the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD)
regulate the right of opposition.

In accordance with the provisions of section 1 of article 21 of the RGPD, the
responsible for the treatment will be obliged to stop treating the personal data of the
interested party who has objected for reasons related to his particular situation,
unless it proves compelling legitimate reasons for the treatment that prevail
on the interests, rights and freedoms of the interested party, or for the formulation,
the exercise or defense of claims. That is, he will be responsible for
treatment that has the burden of proving that their interests prevail over those
Of the interested.

In section 2 of article 21 it is established that, when the treatment of
personal data is intended for direct marketing, the interested party will have
right to object at any time to the processing of personal data
concern, including profiling to the extent that it is related
with said marketing.

And in section 3 it is determined that when the interested party opposes the
processing of your data for direct marketing purposes, personal data
will no longer be processed for these purposes.

Article 18 of the LOPDGDD, referring to the "Right of Opposition", refers

specifically to the articles of the RGPD.

It should also be taken into account that article 23 of the LOPDGDD establishes
Regarding the systems of advertising exclusion, that the treatment of
personal data that is intended to prevent the sending of commercial communications
to whom they had opposed receiving them, so that part of
the data in advertising exclusion systems that must be previously
consulted by those who intend to carry out direct marketing communications,
so that those affected who express their opposition can be excluded.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

11/14

Based on the foregoing, the conduct object of the claim, consisting of the
making commercial calls made by a legal person to third parties (the
claimant did not provide these data of third parties), could violate article 48 of the LGT.

Law 9/2014, of May 9, dedicates Chapter V of Title III to the "Rights
of end users” and grants them, among others, the right to oppose calls
unwanted for advertising or commercial purposes. Thus, article 48.1.b) of the LGT,
under the heading “Right to personal data protection and privacy in relation to
with unsolicited communications with traffic and location data and with
subscriber guides”, provides:

"1. Regarding the protection of personal data and privacy in relation to
with unsolicited communications end users of the services of
electronic communications shall have the following rights:
            a)

(…)

 b)

To oppose receiving unwanted calls for communication purposes
commercial that are carried out through systems other than those established in the letter
above and to be informed of this right.” (The underlining is from the Spanish Agency
Data Protection)
            Annex II of the LGT includes, among others, the following definitions:

“Subscriber: any natural or legal person who has entered into a contract
with a provider of electronic communications services available to the
public for the provision of such services.”

“User: a natural or legal person who uses or requests a service of

electronic communications available to the public.”

“End user: the user who does not exploit public communications networks or
provides electronic communications services available to the public or
don't resell them either."

In the present case, no elements of
proof, not even at the circumstantial level, that, prior to the receipt of the
analyzed calls, the recipients of the same would have manifested before the
claimed their opposition to the reception of unwanted calls for the purpose of
commercial communication, so that there is a record of this opposition and
such opposition could be proven. The exercise of rights is very personal.
must be carried out by the affected party or by whoever represents him.

The right of opposition is expressly provided, in particular, in the
specific telecommunications regulations, regarding telephone calls not
desired for commercial communication purposes. In general, if you do not want
receive commercial calls of a promotional nature can be addressed to the entity
promoted, whether or not they are a client of the same, identifying themselves as a user of the line
where you do not wish to receive calls and expressing your refusal or
Opposition to the processing of your personal data for advertising purposes.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

If your personal identification data appears in the guides of
telecommunications available to the public, you can also exercise your rights before
the operator that provides the telephony service, so that it excludes you from the files
used by entities authorized by the National Markets Commission and the
Competence to prepare subscriber guides or to be recorded in
the same their opposition to the commercial treatment of the data. In the same way,
You can request the omission of some of your data from the guides.

Those affected can also register their data in exclusion systems
such as the one managed by the Spanish Association of Digital Economy
(www.listarobinson.es), in order to limit the advertising of the adhered companies
that have not obtained directly from the affected party the consent for the treatment
of your personal data for advertising purposes or with which the affected party does not maintain
or has not maintained any commercial relationship, being effective after three
months from the date of registration. The defendant states that it crosses the data of
potential recipients of your bids with the Robinson List, as listed in your
action protocol.

The foregoing must be connected with the validity in our
Sanctioning Administrative Law of the principle of presumption of innocence
recognized in article 24.2 of the Spanish Constitution, so that the exercise of
The sanctioning power of the State, in its various manifestations, is
conditioned to the game of evidence and to a contradictory procedure in which
can defend their own positions. The principle of presumption of innocence
prevents imputing an administrative infraction when it has not been obtained and verified
a charge evidence that proves the facts that motivate the imputation or the
intervention in the same of the alleged offender.

The Constitutional Court (SSTC 131/2003 and 242/2005, for all) has
pronounced in this sense when indicating that one of the requirements inherent to the right
to the presumption of innocence is that the sanction is based on acts or means
evidence of charge or incriminating of the imputed behavior and that falls on the
Public administration acting the evidentiary burden of the commission of the illicit
administrative and the participation in it of the accused.

For its part, article 28.1 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the
Law of the Public Sector establishes as one of the principles of the power
sanctioning that of "Responsibility", determining in this regard that:

They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an infraction
natural and legal persons administratively, as well as, when a Law
recognize capacity to act, affected groups, unions and entities without
legal personality and independent or autonomous estates, which result
responsible for the same by way of fraud or negligence”.

Likewise, the provisions of article 53.2 of the law must be taken into account.
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, establishes that: "In addition to the rights provided in the
previous section, in the case of administrative procedures of a
sanctioning, the presumed responsible, will have the following rights: (...) b) To

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility until
prove otherwise."

Pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned precepts, it is appropriate
agree to file this sanctioning procedure as it is not considered proven that by
part of the claimed party has violated the right of the recipients of the calls
advertising, in its capacity as end user of the communications services
electronic, according to the provisions of article 48.1.b) of the LGT.

Considering the aforementioned precepts and others of general application,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE the sanctioning procedure instructed on TIERRAHOTELERA,
SL with NIF B11899515, for an alleged violation of Article 6.1 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to TIERRAHOTELERA, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.6 of the LO-
PDGDD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public tions, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for repossession.
petition before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
one month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and in the section
do 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating
the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
fervent legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
public authorities, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if
the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the city
tada Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
certifying the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. Yes
the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
nistrative within two months from the day following the notification of the pre-
This resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

