 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, July 13, 2021

 

press release

 

BayLDA activity report 2020: Continued need for advice

measures and decisions in data protection

- Fighting a pandemic is also the No. 1 topic in data protection -

 

The President of the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA),

chael Will, on Tuesday, July 13, 2021, presented the activity report of his

plan for the year 2020. “In data protection, too, 2020 was the year of the

Fighting pandemics - characterized by new working conditions as well as by

countless new questions. Data protection law has this probationary

passed the test and the conflicting interests of effective disease control

in companies such as clubs and transparency or control of the individual

balances his data. Despite the good starting conditions, they remain

high number of cases, especially in the case of complaints and data protection violations,

challenge.”

The activity report to be submitted annually in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

Report of the currently 33 employees data protection supervisory authority for the

Bavarian companies and associations includes statistical overviews and information on 86 pages

concise explanations of the main topics of the various sectors and data

protection areas such as the Internet, video surveillance or the technical data

protection and cybersecurity.

For the first time, not only the report itself was published in purely digital form, but also the

Presentation in a press conference in front of the press and specialist public was

line conference relocated. Will explained: “This purely digital presentation reflects the

Core topics of the reporting year again: Corona and international data traffic. the

The decision of the European Court of Justice in the Schrems II case did not affect us

unlike all those responsible in companies or in voluntary work, he has to deal with difficult

shown that in the majority of common data processing such as e-mail and cloud

services or video conferencing systems must be taken into account. These tasks and theirs

practical handling will certainly also be one of the main areas in 2021 and

our advice and examination count.”

 
 

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

 

- 2 -

 

    

The statistical evaluations of the report show that the pandemic has

trending threats in cyberspace are not leading to an increase in reports of data

has led to breaches of protection. With 3752 reports, they lag behind by almost 10%

the peak of the previous year. Likewise, the advice addressed to the BayLDA

2600 inquiries at a high level, but still at least 20%

stabilized behind the value of the previous year. The decline thus primarily confirms the

Success of proactive advice through general information offers on the website of the

BayLDA. On the other hand, the incoming figures for complaints and control suggestions

another record with 6185 cases. Will states: "Despite the steady

construction and the high efficiency of our authority, the tenfold increase in input

also pay a central challenge of our team in the past decade

in the coming years, especially since we are simultaneously core tasks of the GDPR and the important

but also demanding cooperation under the umbrella of the European Data

want and have to do justice to the data protection committee.”

The activity report for the year 2020 is as well as a video recording of the virtual

Press conference available under the following link: https://www.lda.bayern.de/de/taetig-

nessreports.html

Michael Will

president

