

Path: Home Page > Main Menu > Supervisory and Decision-Making Business Company
UOOU-02787/20


The check with this company was
initiated on the basis of 16 complaints. The subject of commercial communications was an offer
services in the form of domain name registration for an annual fee and referred
to the website of the controlled person. It was under review
found that the sending domain is registered to a foreign company
located in the Netherlands and sending IP addresses are registered to unknown
foreign companies located in North America. However relevant
the websites for whose benefit the commercial communications were disseminated are
operated by a controlled person. That is, despite the fact that it has not been established who he is
by the actual sender of the commercial communications in question, from the control
findings (especially from the individual texts of commercial communications sent) resulted,
that commercial communications were disseminated for the benefit of the controlled person. So she is
in the position of disseminator of commercial communications, as it was for her benefit
these messages are disseminated, and is therefore responsible for the dissemination of unsolicited commercial
communication. In this context, the controlled person thus committed a violation of ยง
7 paragraph 2 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll. Furthermore, a violation of Section 7, paragraph 4, was also established
letter a), b) and c) of Act No. 480/2004 Coll., as the reports in question were not clearly
and clearly marked as a commercial message and did not contain mentions or labels
of the person on whose behalf this communication takes place, nor the possibility of unsubscribing
from further sending. Objections to the control findings in the report on
were not submitted for inspection. In this case, it was subsequently
administrative proceedings were conducted and the inspected person was charged with the above-mentioned violations
imposed a penalty in the amount of CZK 50,000, which has already entered into force. As
has not been paid, has been referred to the appropriate for enforcement after enforceability
customs authority.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2021 > Unsolicited commercial communications - 1st half of the year > Commercial companyView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



