Case number: NAIH / 2020/2546/15.

Subject: Decision
DECISION

Before the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority), the […]
hereinafter referred to as the “Customer”) prior to the conclusion of the contracts for the provision of the baby waiting loan,
or, during the term of the contracts, the lending, the related discounts,
the handling of documents containing personal data in connection with grants, and
the lawfulness of information on the processing of data during the granting of a baby loan, the general
ex officio data protection to verify compliance with the Data Protection Regulation
In administrative proceedings, the Authority shall take the following decisions:
I. Finds that the Customer
(1) infringed Article 5 (1) (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR);
the principle of data retention in accordance with point
personal data, including health data, in copies of final reports
which were not necessary to achieve the purpose of the processing;
(2) handled the pregnancy books and final reports without legal basis
personal data, including health data, recorded in copies
Article 6 (1) of the GDPR and Article 9 (1) of the GDPR for health data.
Article 1 (1);
(3) did not provide clear and transparent information to those concerned about the baby loan
and the processing of data during the term of the concluded loan agreements
Article 12 (1) of the GDPR.
II. Instructs Customer to do so within 60 days of this decision becoming final
(1) delete any pregnancy care books and final reports you still have
discard electronic copies, paper copies, and this is done
credit to the Authority.
(2) restructure the baby waiting loan application, as well as concluded during the contract
information management practices in a manner that complies with Article 12 of the GDPR.
transparency requirement under Article 1 (1).
III. Due to the illegal data processing, the Customer shall be entitled to pay the 30th day after the final date of this decision
within a day
HUF 35,000,000, ie thirty-five million forints
data protection fine
obliges to pay.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
1055 Budapest

Tel .: +36 1 391-1400

ugyfelszolgalat@naih.hu

Falk Miksa utca 9-11.

Fax: +36 1 391-1410

www.naih.hu

2

***
The fine is settled by the Authority's forint settlement account for the collection of centralized revenues (1003200001040425-00000000 Centralized collection account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425 0000 0000)
to be paid for. When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2020/2546. JUDGE. number should be referred to.
If the Customer fails to meet the obligation to pay the fine on time, a late payment surcharge
is obliged to pay. The rate of the late payment interest is the statutory interest, which is the calendar affected by the delay
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the first half of the year.
A II. obligation under point III. non - payment of the fine and the late payment allowance
In that case, the Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision.
Until the expiry of the time limit for bringing an action against the decision, or an administrative action
until the final decision of the court, the data involved in the disputed data processing shall not
may be deleted or not destroyed.
A II. within 8 days of the implementation of the measures provided for in point
together with supporting evidence, shall notify the Authority. To the Customer
as evidence, fully document the fact of the deletions and the IT circumstances
report (s) and a statement that all copies of such data
deleted.
There shall be no administrative appeal against this decision, but it shall be subject to a right of appeal within 30 days of its notification
An action brought before the Metropolitan Court may be challenged in an administrative action within one day. THE
The application shall be submitted to the Authority, electronically, which shall forward it together with the case - file to the
court. For those who do not receive a full personal tax exemption, there is an administrative lawsuit fee
HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material taxes. In the proceedings before the Metropolitan Court, the legal
representation is mandatory.

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure
(1)

The Authority received a notification in the public interest stating that the applicant was expecting a baby
took a loan with his spouse from the Client. The Applicant and his / her spouse have requested the Client to
suspension of loan repayment. The full copy was copied by the Customer's agent
a pregnancy care book to prove that the fetus was 12 weeks old.

(2)

On the basis of the public interest notification, the circumstance giving rise to the initiation of the official inspection came to the
To the Authority, so that the Authority, on 24 January 2020, issued NAIH / 2020/1156. the Customer
with the simultaneous notification of the Customer, initiated an official inspection to verify that the Customer
whether its general data management practices in relation to baby loans are in line with a
GDPR requirements.

(3)

The Authority shall make a statement at the same time as the notification of the initiation of the official control
called the Customer. The Client's statement was received by the Authority on 14 February 2020.

3

(4)

Based on the Client's statement and additional information revealed during the official inspection
it was probable that the Client had breached the provisions of the GDPR, so the Authority is
In its case, NAIH / 2020/2546 initiated ex officio data protection proceedings on 28 February 2020.
case number. The investigation period covered the period from 1 July 2019 to 28 February 2020.

(5)

In addition to notifying the data protection authority procedure, the Authority will clarify the facts
In order to do so, he called on the Client to make a statement, and in his order he reserved the ones already concluded
loan transactions performed by the Client on the maternity care books, the adoption
paper - based decisions on abortions or stillbirths and
electronic copies. The Authority left the seized copies of the documents in the custody of the Client. THE
It was necessary to order a seizure because, on the basis of the Client's statement, a
the risk that the copies of the records - in the context of the Client 's own review - will be
shall be deleted before the end of the official data protection procedure.

(6)

In its statement dated 15 May 2020 (NAIH / 2020/2546/2), the Client informed the
Authority that it has complied with the order of seizure, the paper - based and
destruction of electronic copies of documents, deletion from systems upon receipt of the order
suspended after.

(7)

On 22 June 2020, the Authority issued Regulation NAIH / 2020/2546/3. clarification of the facts in his order no
In order to do so, he invited the Client to make a statement and send various copies of the documents.

(8)

In the Customer's letter dated 8 July 2020, the deadline for reply is an additional 15
The Authority requested an extension of NAIH / 2020/2546/5. number
in his order. The Client's statement and the requested documents are electronic, with a password
A copy of the protected copies was received by the Authority on 30 July 2020.

(9)

In order to clarify the facts, the Authority should amend NAIH / 2020/2546/9. again in order no
invited the client to make a statement on October 20, 2020. Customer Statement November 2020
He arrived at the Authority on the 25th.

(10)

The Authority has already concluded loan transactions during the Client's Pregnancy Care
books, adoption decisions, proof of miscarriage or stillbirth
seizure of paper-based and electronic copies of documents on 14 December 2020
terminated by order of.

II. Clarification of the facts
(11)

44/2019 on the baby waiting allowance. (III.12.) Government Decree (hereinafter: Government Decree)
under the baby waiting loan interest subsidized, the transaction interest on behalf of the state to the Treasury
disbursed to the credit institution.

(12)

Beneficiaries - that is, the spouses with whom the financial institution is expecting a baby loan
are entitled to suspend the repayment of other loans
after the 12th week of pregnancy, including the post-natal period
or if they adopt a child together.

(13)

Beneficiaries are entitled to a non-refundable fee for the second or third child
childbirth allowance, the amount of which is from the baby-waiting loan for the second child
30% of the outstanding debt and, in the case of a third child, the remaining balance

4

amount corresponding to the loan debt. Childbirth allowance to suspend repayment
similarly after the 12th week of pregnancy, including the period after childbirth, or
can be requested in case of adoption.
(14)

An application for suspension of repayment and childbirth allowance must be made to the credit institution
to be submitted, which must be accompanied by the provisions of Section 9 (2) (b) and (c) of the Government Decree.
which are as follows:
•

•

•

•
•

the 12th week of pregnancy and the expected date of delivery
to prove the pregnancy care book, the data content of which is a
26/2014 on prenatal care (IV. 8.) Annex 1 to the EMMI Decree
(or after 1 July 2020 in the Government Decree)
a document issued by the treating physician with a specific content);
in the case of a blood child, proof of birth: the birth of the child
birth certificate, official certificate of residence and
tax certificate;
in the case of an adopted child, the final authorizing the adoption
decision, the official identity card of the child and the
tax certificate;
a statement of the beneficiaries in a private document of full probative value stating that
that they live in a household;
in the case of stillbirth or miscarriage, the document certifying that this has taken place,
In client practice, the final report was (from 1 July 2020, fetal death
in the case of a document pursuant to Annex 3 of the Government Decree; stillbirth
on the examination of the dead and the procedure relating to the dead
in the case of a document issued by a government decree, or in the event of the death of a child born alive
death certificate).

(15)

The Customer shall use the same procedure to suspend repayment and claim child support
regularized the form. For these requests, the original of the above documents
required the presentation of which he made a copy, not including in a household
because it required the original to be lodged. This
[…] (Hereinafter referred to as the Product Regulations).

(16)

Electronic copies of the above documents will be sent to the Customer by November 1, 2019
prior to that, its predecessors recorded and stored them in their process management systems.

(17)

[…] As of November 1, 2019, the paper-based documents in the customer files in the branches
have been placed.

(18)

With regard to the handling of paper-based documents and copies of documents, since 1 November 2019, the
The practice of the Customer 's bank branches is uniform, it is stated in Annex […] of the Product Policy and
regulated by its annexes […].

(19)

The Client in the course of the proceedings referred to the Authority's previous - Data Protection Officers 2019
conference, received from data protection officials, not in the context of video presentations
expressed in question 25 of the "Answered Questions" document that "A
Authority shall accept the making of copies if the employer as data controller is such
develops a practice of making copies only of data that

5

otherwise entitled to handle it. In this case, copy the data on the document
data management operation, but not a new data management purpose compared to the original purpose of data collection, but
a way of collecting data for the original purpose of data processing and the related legal basis,
which otherwise helps to ensure the accuracy of the data. "
(20)

The Customer shall list and make available on the […] website related to the baby waiting loan
documents, including documents governing data management, e.g. […].

(21)

The Client has informed the Authority that between 1 July 2019 and 30 January 2020 in total
[…] Persons applied for a baby waiting loan from him, of which […] granted a baby waiting loan to a person,
which represents a total of […] transactions. […] Transaction was suspended during the first repayment
after a child and […] supported couple claimed childbirth allowance for the second or
after the third child.

(22)

Upon receipt of the order of the Authority to initiate an official inspection
reviewed its rules of procedure and the forms requested. Of this
under the abolition of pregnancy books, the adoption permit
copies of decisions, abortions or stillbirths, and
prepared separate model certificates to prove the circumstances, on which the beneficiary declares a
on the correctness of the data ordered by the Government Decree on the basis of the presented documents.
In order to prove this, the amended Product Regulations No. […] are attached to this statement
in […] of which the Client has expressly stated that the item to be presented
documents (maternity care book, adoption decision, stillbirth or birth certificate)
abortion certificate) is strictly prohibited. In addition to these, the Authority
the amended annexes […] and the newly drawn up certificates
[…] - samples as well.

(23)

The Customer has also reviewed the documents of the baby waiting loan from a data protection point of view,
which were not affected by the Authority's request. On the implementation of the amendments on 15 May 2020
informed the Authority, the amended Product Regulations, of […]
application for support and to verify the data in the […] pregnancy care book
attached to his statement of 27 July 2020.

(24)

The Client has stated that in respect of the transactions already concluded in the course of which
In the absence of a legal authorization, copies were made pursuant to Section 9 (2) (b) and (b) of the Government Decree
(c), decided to make copies of paper-based documents
on the annulment of the decision, on the recording of the fact of destruction, and on the
the indication of the information required by law and the deletion of electronic copies of documents, and
began to do so, which was followed by a seizure order by the Authority
suspended.

(25)

At the request of the Authority, the Client provided the Authority with the information from 1 July 2019 to 2019.
1 August 2020 and 1 January 2020 in the period between January 30 and the end of the term
copies of books.

(26)

During the period under review, no copy of the adoption decision was made until a miscarriage or death
A total of 2 copies of the final birth certificate were made, the other two
In this case, the abortion has already been verified with a sample of the certificate prepared by the Client, which
only the natural identity data of the pregnant woman, address, for the 12th week of pregnancy

6

and the date of the miscarriage or stillbirth and to identify the specialist
contain the necessary details and signature.
(27)

In order to verify the actual application of the new, amended certificates, the Customer shall
5 from the period from 1 February to 15 March 2020, signed by the parties concerned, a
a copy of the certificate marked with the number […] certifying the presentation of the maternity care book
made available to him.

III. Applicable legal provisions
Following the period under review, the Government Decree was amended several times. The Authority is the Government.
The provisions of the Regulation in force during the period under review took into account the lawfulness of data processing
in its assessment.
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the GDPR, the GDPR applies to the processing of data in the present case.
The relevant provisions of the GDPR in the present case are the following:
GDPR Recital 35: Personal health data include the data subject
health data that provide information on the past,
current or future physical or mental health. These include: a
personal data relating to a natural person which are provided to the individual in accordance with Directive 2011/24 / EU
for the purposes of healthcare referred to in Directive (9) of the European Parliament and of the Council
collected during the registration or provision of such services, the natural person
number, sign or data assigned to it for the individual identification of
a part of the body or a constituent of the body, including genetic data and biological samples
- information derived from testing or examination, and any, such as the data subject
illness, disability, disease risk, medical history, clinical treatment or
information on its physiological or biomedical state, whatever its source, which
it may be, for example, a doctor or other healthcare professional, a hospital, a medical device or in vitro
diagnostic test.
GDPR Article 4 (15): "health data" means the physical or mental health of a natural person
personal data, including health care provided to a natural person
services that provide information on the health of the natural person
status.
GDPR Article 5 (1) (c): Personal data for data processing purposes
they must be appropriate and relevant and limited to what is necessary
("Data saving").
GDPR Article 6 (1) (b) and (c) and (3): Processing of personal data only
is lawful if and to the extent that at least one of the following is met:
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party; or
necessary to take steps at the request of the data subject before concluding the contract;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
3. The legal basis for the processing referred to in points (c) and (e) of paragraph 1 shall be determined by:
(a) Union law, or
(b) the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject.

7

The purpose of the processing shall be defined by reference to this legal basis or in paragraph 1 (e)
such processing must be necessary for reasons of public interest or
task performed in the framework of the exercise of a public authority delegated to a data controller
to implement. This legal basis may include adjustments to the application of the rules contained in this Regulation
provisions governing the lawfulness of data processing by the controller
conditions, the type of data subject to data processing, the data subjects, the legal entities
with which personal data may be communicated and the purposes of such communication for the purposes of data processing
restrictions on the duration of data storage and data processing operations, among others
data management procedures so as to ensure lawful and fair data management
measures, including Annex IX. for other specific data processing situations as defined in Chapter
regarding. Union or Member State law must pursue a public interest objective and be proportionate
for the legitimate aim pursued.
GDPR Article 9 (1): Racial or ethnic origin, political opinion, religion or belief
personal data referring to worldviews or trade union membership, and
genetic and biometric data for the unique identification of natural persons, health
data and on the sexual life or sexual orientation of natural persons
the processing of personal data is prohibited.
GDPR Article 12 (1): The controller shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
referred to in Articles 13 and 14 concerning the processing of personal data
information and Articles 15 to 22. and Article 34 shall be concise, transparent, comprehensible and
in an easily accessible form and in a clear and comprehensible manner, in particular:
for any information addressed to children. The information shall be provided in writing or otherwise,
including, where applicable, the electronic route. Oral information at the request of the data subject
provided that the identity of the data subject has been otherwise established.
Article 58 (2) (b), (d) and (i) GDPR: Acting in the corrective power of the supervisory authority:
(b) reprimand the controller or the processor if his or her data processing activities have infringed this
provisions of this Regulation;
(d) instruct the controller or processor to carry out its data processing operations, where applicable
in a specified manner and within a specified period, in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case;
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in paragraph 1;
Article 83 (1) to (2) and (5) (a) to (b) of the GDPR: 1. Each supervisory authority shall ensure that:
infringements of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6
administrative fines must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each case.
2. Administrative fines shall be imposed in accordance with Article 58 (2) (a) to (4), depending on the circumstances of the case.
It shall be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in points (h) and (j). When deciding that
whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine or the amount of the administrative fine
In each case, due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the nature of the processing in question;
the scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by them and by them
the extent of the damage suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;

8

(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
Technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Article 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and the possible negative effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation to alleviate
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor has reported the breach and, if so, in what detail;
(i) if, prior to the controller or processor concerned,
one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2) has been imposed
compliance with measures;
(j) whether the controller or processor has kept itself approved in accordance with Article 40
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42; and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case, such as:
financial gain or avoidance as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
loss.
5. Infringements of the following provisions in accordance with paragraph 2 shall not exceed 20 000 000
With an administrative fine of EUR 1 million or, in the case of undertakings, the previous financial year in full
amounting to a maximum of 4% of its annual worldwide turnover,
a higher amount should be charged:
(a) the principles of data processing, including the conditions for consent, in accordance with Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
(b) the rights of data subjects under Articles 12 to 22. in accordance with Article
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2), the general data protection decree is indicated therein
shall apply with the additions provided for in
Infotv. Enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1)
In order to do so, the Authority may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings. The data protection authority
CL of the General Administrative Procedure Act 2016. Act (hereinafter: Act)
rules shall apply with the additions specified in the Infotv. and the general data protection
with derogations under this Regulation.
Infotv. Section 61 (6): Until the expiry of the time limit for bringing an action against the decision,
or, in the case of the initiation of an administrative lawsuit, until the final decision of the court is concerned with the disputed data processing
data cannot be deleted or destroyed.
Infotv. Section 71 (2): The Authority shall obtain a document or data lawfully obtained in the course of its proceedings
you may use another means of proof in another procedure.
Infotv. 75 / A. §, the Authority shall comply with Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation
shall exercise its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by:
legislation on the processing of personal data or a binding act of the European Union
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation, in particular the controller or
by alerting the data controller.

9

Section 9 (2) (b) and (c) of the Government Decree (in force between 1 July 2019 and 29 February 2020)
time status): The loan agreement contains the beneficiaries
(b) a statement that the 12th week of pregnancy and the expected date of confinement
they are certified by the Pregnancy Care Book and contribute to the processing of this data,
(c) a statement that, if not after the birth or adoption of the child
claim family benefits or, if they are claimed at a family
the child's birth certificate, official certificate proving the address and tax certificate,
or, in the case of an adopted child, the final decision authorizing the adoption;
present an official identity card and tax certificate proving the address of the adopted child, and
shall be declared in a private document of full probative value
living in a household, or in the event of the death of a fetus instead of the former
a document with a specified content on the examination of the body in the event of stillbirth and with the dead
or a child born alive
in the event of his death, a death certificate certifying that this has taken place, within a maximum of 60 days
presented to the credit institution and consent to the processing of that data.
Government Decree Section 14 (1) and (4): Beneficiaries to suspend repayment
eligible
(a) after the fetus has completed at least 12 weeks of gestation, if the gestation is due to the
on or after the date of submission of the loan and at the latest from the disbursement of the loan
reaches the 12th week of pregnancy within a period of 5 years, or
(b) adopted after the entry into force of this Regulation and adopted jointly by the beneficiaries
after the child, if the decision authorizing the adoption is submitted after the loan application has been submitted, but
it will become final no later than 5 years after the disbursement of the loan.
4. An application for suspension of repayment shall be submitted to the credit institution. Attached to the application
the documents specified in Section 9 (2) (b) and (c), respectively.
Section 19 (1), (2), (5), (7), (8) of the Government Decree: The supported persons in paragraph (2)
meets certain conditions
(a) for their second child, 30% of the outstanding debt under this Regulation
amount
(b) in the case of their third child, corresponding to the total outstanding debt under this Regulation
amount
are entitled to a non-refundable childbirth allowance.
(2) Childbirth allowance
(a) in the event of pregnancy occurring at or after the date on which the loan application is submitted,
may be claimed after the fetus has completed at least 12 weeks of gestation, and
(b) adopted after the entry into force of this Regulation and adopted jointly by the beneficiaries
may be applied for after a child if the decision authorizing the adoption of the loan application
becomes final after.
(5) An application for childbirth allowance shall be submitted to the credit institution. Attached to the application
the documents specified in Section 9 (2) (b) and (c), respectively.
(7) The credit institution shall determine the fulfillment of the eligibility conditions on the basis of the submitted certificates.
(8) In the case of the use of childbirth allowance with regard to the fetus, the childbirth allowance
the expected date of confinement must be indicated when determining the allowance.
Decree 26/2014 on prenatal care. (IV. 8.) of the EMMI Decree 1
the contents of a pregnancy care book.

10

About the identification methods that replace the personal identification number and the use of identification codes
XX of 1996 Section 7 (2) of the Act (hereinafter: the Act): The data controller appointed by law
does not authorize the use of an identification code, the identification code specified in Section 6 can only be used by the citizen
in accordance with Article 4 (11) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
with your consent or with the consent given in the administrative order.
The Szatz. § 23 determines which bodies are entitled to manage the TAJ number and for what purpose.
ARC. Decision:
IV.1. The need to process personal data recorded in the pregnancy care book
(28) Pursuant to Section 9 (2) (b) of the Government Decree - in force at the time of initiating the official proceedings
the beneficiaries must declare at the time of concluding the loan agreement that:
the 12th week of pregnancy and the expected date of delivery with a pregnancy care book
verify and consent to the processing of this data. The 12th week of pregnancy and a
proof of the expected date of confinement is required if the fetus is 12 weeks old
the supported couple wishes to claim a discount, ie to suspend the repayment, or
childbirth allowance.
(29) Section 14 (4) and Section 19 (5) of the Government Decree provide that the repayment
an application for the suspension of childbirth or the use of childbirth allowance a
must be submitted to a credit institution providing a baby waiting loan, to which the Government Decree must be attached
Documents pursuant to Section 9 (2) (b) and (c). The Government Decree does not define that submission
how the term is to be understood, as a presentation at the bank branch when submitting the application or as a document
a copy to the application. Subject to Section 9 (2) (b) of the Government Decree
which is expected only after the 12th week of pregnancy and childbirth
and that from 13 June 2020 the Government Decree § 9 (2)
the above data may also be substantiated by a certificate issued by an obstetrician in accordance with
submission is to be construed as a presentation in the narrower sense.
(30) What data should be recorded and what data can be recorded in the case of maternity care
26/2014 on Pregnancy Care. (IV. 8.) EMMI Decree (hereinafter: EMMI
Regulation). In the pregnancy care book, the pregnant woman is natural
In addition to the personal identification data, the social security number will be indicated
sign, place of residence, place of residence, place of work, occupation, education, telephone number, a
the name and address of the next of kin (page 1). They shall also indicate:
data on those involved in maternity care, ie various data on the area nurse, general practitioner, obstetrician or midwife, e.g. name, address, phone number, email address
(Page 2).
(31) At the time of childbirth or in addition to the pregnancy being diagnosed by an obstetrician or gynecologist
in which week the pregnant woman appeared - from which it can be calculated that the 12th week of pregnancy
when it was loaded - a number of additional details will be recorded in the maternity care book,
some of which are health data. The pregnancy care book contains the pregnant woman
blood group, risk classification of pregnancy, data on previous births and pregnancies (section 3).
side). These data include that if a pregnant woman has already given birth,
when was she born, in what week of pregnancy, how many grams was the newborn born, what was it like

11

whether the location - cranial location, pelvic location, transverse location - was there any
complication during labor, vaginal delivery - with episiotomy or barrier protection, or
by pliers or vacuum extraction - or by cesarean section, or that the child
what state of health you are in when you are re-admitted.
(32) Data on ‘unsuccessful pregnancies’ indicate the year in which the pregnancy was diagnosed.
how many weeks and how the pregnancy was terminated: whether it was due to an artificial or spontaneous miscarriage
angina or ectopic pregnancy in a pregnant woman.
(33) In addition to the above, the history of illness,
surgeries - developmental disorders in the parents' family, inherited diseases,
drug sensitivity and test results (page 4). The dentist will also be recorded
Finding of the examination (page 4), records of those involved in the care of the pregnant woman (pages 8-13),
in which it is recorded when, in what week of pregnancy, the size of the pregnant woman was
body weight, blood pressure, heart rate, abdominal circumference and the position of the fundus, as well as
symptoms observed during the studies and the therapy or measure recommended for them.
(34) Also included in the Pregnancy Care Book (pages 6-7) according to the EMMI Regulation
free, mandatory examinations - e.g. various blood tests, urine tests, ultrasound
examinations or genetic testing (page 14) if the pregnant woman is 37 years of age at conception
assessment and any specialist comments and when it was made
the first day of the last menstrual period, usually how long a menstrual cycle is and what the birth is
expected date.
(35) The Authority notes that there is no explicit heading in the Pregnancy Care Book in which
it could be indicated when the 12th week of pregnancy was loaded, it can only be calculated
may be from when, in what week of pregnancy the proof of pregnancy occurred.
This should or may be listed in two places in the pregnancy care book, first inside it
on page 7, which is completed by the nurse, and on page 7, “UH
completed by the examining obstetrician and gynecologist.
(36) As acknowledged by the customer, it was generally accepted by the customer during the period considered
about a women’s pregnancy care book who, along with their spouses, applied for a baby-waiting loan
intended to take advantage of the suspension of childbirth or childbirth allowance
made a copy for the 12th week of her pregnancy, sometimes to a different extent.
(37) The Authority examined the pregnancy books provided by the Client
made copies showing that […] the practice of each account was not uniform
the extent to which a copy of the pregnancy care book has been made. Some […]
accounts copied the entire pregnancy care book, others only natural
pages containing personal information and the expected date of delivery. Also a copy
attached is the Client, which is made exclusively from the page of the pregnancy care book on which the
the doctor will indicate the expected date of delivery. However, there are also copies
were made which did not contain the pages on which the expected date of confinement was given
or from which the 12th week of pregnancy could have been calculated.
(38) The data content of the copies of the pregnancy care books of each beneficiary varies according to the
depending on the personal circumstances of the spouses, the number of their children or the fact that a
at what stage of pregnancy did the Client turn to suspend the repayment, and

12

application for childbirth allowance, as the more advanced the pregnancy, the more
several test results are recorded in the pregnancy care book.
(39) In addition to the data specified in the EMMI Regulation, nurses and GPs are unique
comments have also been made in the pregnancy care books, e.g. how many days was the
the menstrual cycle of a pregnant woman at the age of 15 or the age of her first child
breastfed.
(40) The processing of data listed in the above paragraphs, in particular health data, is not
necessary to ensure that the 12th week of pregnancy and the expected date of confinement are
supported by the Customer to certify toward the Customer, i.e., the Customer’s Pregnancy Books
data processed in copies - not including the expected date of delivery and the time the pregnancy is completed
are not appropriate for the purpose of the processing and are not
relevant, they go far beyond the required data range and the Authority therefore concludes that
that the Customer has violated the principle of data protection pursuant to Article 5 (1) (c) GDPR.
IV.2. Management of personal information in copies of pregnancy books
legal basis
(41) Certain conditions for the use of the baby - waiting loan and related aid are a
Government Decree, in addition to in accordance with Section 4 (4) of the Government Decree
a loan agreement may be concluded only with claimants who are covered by the credit institution's general internal rules
according to which it qualifies as creditworthy to take out the requested loan.
(42) Pursuant to Section 9 (2) (b) of the Government Decree in force during the period under review, the repayment
for the 12th week of pregnancy
and the expected date of confinement must be proved by the pregnancy record book if the
to submit a request for validation of benefits to the Customer
takes place before birth.
(43) The processing of this data by the Client is necessary in order to be able to ascertain the
the eligibility of applications for discounts and benefits
can provide access to the data, ie the management of this data between him and the
necessary to fulfill the contracts concluded between the beneficiaries. That doesn't change that
nor that as a condition for the use of the subsidy the processing of these data by the Government Decree
makes it binding on the Customer within the framework of the contractual relationship. Therefore, the
data on the 12th week of pregnancy and the expected date of confinement, which
the legal basis for the processing of a pregnant woman's personal data under Article 6 of the GDPR is Article 6 (1) of the GDPR
paragraph (b).
(44) It should also be emphasized that the fact of pregnancy is in itself the health of the pregnant person
the number of weeks of pregnancy and when it is expected to occur
to give birth. According to Article 9 of the GDPR, personal data are special
and their handling is, in principle, prohibited. Health data legally
they can only be dealt with if one of the legal bases set out in Article 6 (1) of the GDPR
In addition, the circumstance under Article 9 (2) of the GDPR also applies.
(45) Article 9 (2) of the GDPR does not contain an exception which is explicitly a contract
would allow the processing of health data in order to meet the Article 9 (2) of the GDPR
According to point (a), health data may be processed if one or more specific data subjects are involved

13

express consent. Pursuant to Section 9 (2) of the Government Decree, the spouses a
they must expressly state in the loan agreement that the 12th week of pregnancy
consent to the processing of data on the loading and expected date of confinement,
that is, the Government Decree apparently regulates the legal basis for the processing of health data. THE
The Authority is of the opinion that the contribution is voluntary as one of the contributions
whether the condition of validity is fully enforced during the data processing, since a
without prior consent at the time of conclusion of the contract
no loan agreement would be concluded.
(46) The Client may not review or act on the laws of the Member States which govern it
on the contrary, the Authority finds that in the case of spouses who have
they wish to take advantage of the benefits provided for in the Government Decree in view of their fetuses,
for the 12th week of pregnancy and the expected date of confinement
data.
(47) The Client shall lawfully manage the data contained in the pregnancy care book a
natural identity and contact details of the spouses and the pregnant woman
data on the occupation and education of the Client, the management of which is the responsibility of the Client and the
necessary for the performance of the contract between the spouses, including before the conclusion of the contract
credit assessment - on the other hand, to fulfill its various legal obligations, e.g. money laundering and
contributing to the prevention and deterrence of terrorist financing. These
the Client has an appropriate purpose and legal basis for its management.
(48) The Authority shall include a copy of the TAJ number of the pregnant woman in the copy of the pregnancy care book
considers it necessary to emphasize that the TAJ number is according to
an identification code that is handled and transmitted only by rules specified by law
that is, the data controller who is not authorized by law to use the TAJ number may
only with the consent of the GDPR concerned in accordance with Article 4 (11). The Szatz. § 23
it also determines which bodies are authorized to manage the TAJ number, for what purpose,
however, no financial institutions are listed among them, nor is there any other sectoral law
authorizes them, and the parties concerned have not verifiably consented to the TAJ
for their handling by the Customer, ie they are managed by the Customer without a legal basis.
(49) Section III.1 of the Decision. The treatment of the health data described in point (44) (45) shall be governed by the provisions of paragraph (44), with the addition that the processing of such data shall not only be governed by Article 9 of the GDPR.
None of the circumstances set out in Article 2 (2) apply, but also to the Customer
It does not have a legal basis under Article 6 of the GDPR. In the Pregnancy Book
pregnant women have not been shown to have consented to the processing of
they are not necessary for the performance of the loan agreement - not including the pregnancy
12th week and the expected date of delivery - their handling by the Client
not necessary to fulfill its legal obligation. In addition, the Customer is in the public interest
does not perform a task, does not exercise public power, the processing of data by the data subjects or other natural
protection of personal vital interests is not necessary, as well as the Customer these
cannot show a legitimate interest in the management of the data subject
rights and freedoms.
(50) The findings made in the previous paragraph in relation to Article 6 (1) of the GDPR are as follows:
personal data not mentioned so far, which do not qualify as health data - who is the pregnant woman
also apply to your GP, nurse or dentist.

14

(51) In the Authority’s view, the Client should have recognized that the Government Decree
It shall apply subject to the provisions of the GDPR and in conjunction with the application of this legislation
a prudent, proportionate data management practice in line with the principles of data management
to form.
(52) On the basis of the above, the Authority concludes that by the 12th week of pregnancy, the expected
with the exception of the data referred to in point (47) of the Decision
all additional data in pregnancy books, including health data
the Client did not have an adequate legal basis to deal with the transaction, in breach of Article 6 (1) of the GDPR.
as well as Article 9 (1) of the GDPR for health data.
IV.3. The need and legal basis for the processing of the data recorded in the final reports
(53) Pursuant to Section 9 (2) (c) of the Government Decree - in force during the period under review - the subsidized
persons must also declare their commitment, dead, at the time of concluding the loan agreement
in the case of a birth or abortion, a certificate certifying that this has taken place within a maximum of 60 days a
presented to the credit institution and consent to the processing of that data.
(54) Section 14 (4) and Section 19 (5) of the Government Decree provide that the repayment
an application for the suspension of childbirth or the use of childbirth allowance a
must be submitted to a credit institution providing a baby waiting loan, to which the Government Decree must be attached
Documents pursuant to Section 9 (2) (b) and (c). The Government Decree does not define that submission
how the term is to be understood, as a presentation at the bank branch when submitting the application or as a document
a copy to the application. Section 9 (2) (c) of the Government Decree expressly
provides for the presentation, not the copying, of the documents listed there.
(55) The Client made a copy of the final report on the miscarriage of two subsidized women
period in order to verify the above. The final report is a natural identity for women
In addition to the data, it includes the tests performed, the therapy used and the tests performed
description of the intervention. On the health status of women, the examinations, their results, what has been done
information on interventions, as well as the fact of miscarriage, is provided for in Article 4 (15) of the GDPR
health data which are not necessary for the fact of a miscarriage
are inappropriate and irrelevant to achieve the purpose of the data processing, therefore a
Authority finds that by handling these, the Client has violated Article 5 (1) of the GDPR
(c).
(56) The Authority notes that, as explained in point (49) of this Decision, the Client does not
in addition to the fact of the abortion and the date thereof, in the final report
in breach of Article 6 (1) of the GDPR,
and Article 9 (1).
IV.4. Information on data management during the application and granting of a baby waiting loan
transparency
(57) The Client provides information in several different documents when applying for a baby loan, respectively
on the processing of data in the event of the conclusion of a loan agreement, which
documents on the Customer 's website, under the […] tab, collected in a clickable form and
grouped under […] addresses are easily accessible.

15

(58) The Authority shall assess the adequacy of the information provided by the Client on the processing of personal data a
examined on the basis of the following documents: […] prospectus; […] Prospectus (a
hereinafter referred to as the "Privacy Notice"); […] (Hereinafter: the Application Form); […] (hereinafter:
Business Rules).
(59) According to the Code of Conduct […], the purpose, legal basis and processing of personal data
the detailed rules, the data management rights of the Clients on the website and at the bank branches
detailed in the privacy notices provided. The Terms of Business expressly a
no further information on the processing of data in connection with a baby loan
contain.
(60) The […] prospectus covers the general data processing activities carried out by […],
thus also for the data management performed by the Client in connection with the baby waiting loan - in which
intends to provide data subjects with information on the aspects of the processing of their personal data.
(61) Section […] of the prospectus sets out the possible processing of data by group members.
objectives in a general way, such as “interest in a service, requesting a service
procedure "or" conclusion of a contract, performance of a contract ". Data management is possible
its legal bases are listed in point […]. The scope of data managed under the heading is data managed
categories are described, for example […].
(62) In Section […], the Data Protection Notice describes the
the possible purposes of data processing, which are detailed in […].
(63) In […], the Customer defines the processed data for data management purposes, their
"Legal entities", the legal basis for the processing and the retention period
in connection with the service. This means that the prospectus is not broken down into individual financials
products separately, e.g. mortgage loan, personal loan, baby loan, family
home creation discount, etc. As a result, any personal data or personal information
data category is listed among the data managed for which you have some type of credit or
necessary for the performance of the contract by the Client during the provision of a cash loan.
(64) In the Authority's view, the definition of the purpose of data processing alone is' with the Bank
data processing required for the performance of a contract ”is too broad, not specific, precise and
final, it is difficult to determine the elements of the contract and
related data management is included because e.g. […] the provision and provision of the service
named as a separate data management purpose for the customer, although the general meaning of the words, and
Ptk. according to the concept of contract, performance of the contract is nothing more than under contract
provision of a service to be performed.
(65) In the Authority's view, in order to make data management transparent to the Client
set more specific data management goals, such as the 12th week of pregnancy and
the purpose of processing personal data relating to the expected date of delivery is to be provided by the Customer
be able to verify the legitimacy of the claim or subsequently check if the beneficiary is eligible
persons wish to take advantage of the benefits provided for in the Government Decree with regard to their fetuses. THE
Authority does not dispute whether the suspension of repayment or childbirth allowance
is provided within the contractual relationship during the performance of the contract, but the
in the absence of a sufficiently specific definition of data management purposes for data subjects
it is clear why they have to make some of their data available to the Customer.

16

(66) In the Authority’s view, the data and categories of data processed in the Data Protection Prospectus […]
its listing in this way does not meet the requirement of transparency either, since there it is
Approximately all personal information that the Customer has any credit is listed
or in connection with a loan agreement. As a result, it is difficult for those concerned to be convinced
that the fulfillment of their credit or loan agreement with the Customer, certain aspects thereof
exactly what information they will need to provide. In the present case, for example, a
Beneficiaries do not have to provide a
details of their property insurance or details of their property sold to the Client within five years, as
these data are irrelevant to the credit they use, while, for example, fetal data is one
they are not relevant in a personal loan agreement. In this regard, the Authority also
notes that it is not entirely clear exactly what data the Client understands
fetal data, as the fetus is not yet legal, the 12th week of pregnancy and the
data on the expected date of delivery are maternal health data.
(67) In addition, the Data Protection Notice states that the purpose of data processing is to:
fulfillment of the reporting obligation to the Hungarian State Treasury (hereinafter: MÁK).
It is not clear from the Privacy Notice that such a reporting obligation is
When it exists for a customer, what kind of contract it affects.
(68) Section 26 of the Government Decree also prescribes the obligation to provide information to MÁK for inspection purposes, and
specifies which of the persons supported or the child born
must transfer your personal data to the Customer. As defined in the Privacy Notice
the scope of data does not correspond to the scope of data specified in the Government Decree, e.g. the Data Management
does not indicate the identity card of the supported persons, travel
document or card format driving license number as data to be transmitted [Government.
Section 26 (1) (bd) of the Decree].
(69) The Application Form shall indicate the identity of the applicants for the loan, the credit assessment
necessary personal data, data of the requested loan, statements according to the Government Decree,
which are necessary to establish the eligibility conditions, and […].
(70) Under the heading “[…]”, the Client essentially agrees with the contract, its conclusion and conditions.
provides information on a total of […] points. The Government has been inserted in […].
statements on data processing pursuant to Section 9 (2) of the Decree. According to point […]
and [consent to the processing of their personal data]. In the Authority 's view,
privacy statements should have been separated by the Customer from other contractual statements
provisions in the interests of transparency. Furthermore, the wording of point […] is incorrect
may give the impression to those concerned that their personal data provided on the Application Form
their consent is the legal basis for their management.
(71) In the light of the above, the […] prospectus, the Privacy Notice and the Application Form
The information provided by the customer on the handling of personal data is not transparent, not sufficiently
specific and not suitable for those concerned to know and see through the personal
the process for handling their data and be aware of exactly which Customer is
for what purpose and on what legal basis they process their personal data. The Authority finds that
Customer does not provide clear and transparent information to those concerned about the baby waiting loan
and the processing of data during the term of the concluded loan agreements
Article 12 (1) of the GDPR

17

IV.5. Legal consequences
(72)

The Authority finds that the Client has violated Article 5 (1) (c) GDPR, Article 6
Article 9 (1) and Article 12 (1).

(73) Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (d) of the GDPR, the Authority instructs the Client to
electronic records of final care books and final reports available to them
delete copies, destroy paper-based copies, and credit for doing so
to the Authority.
(74) Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (d) of the GDPR, the Authority instructs the Client to restructure the
application for a baby waiting loan and data management during the concluded contracts
information practices in a manner consistent with Article 12 (1) of the GDPR
transparency requirements.
(75) The Authority has examined whether it is justified to impose a data protection fine on the Customer. E
In particular, the Authority considered all the circumstances of the case under Article 83 (2) of the GDPR.
In view of the circumstances of the case, the Authority found that it had been identified in the present proceedings
in case of infringement - Infotv. 75 / A. § - warning is disproportionate and dissuasive
sanction, it is therefore necessary to impose a fine.
(76) In particular, the Authority took into account that the nature of the infringements committed by the
in accordance with Article 83 (5) (a) and (b) of the GDPR
constitute an infringement falling within the category of fines.
(77) In setting the fine, the Authority took into account the following as aggravating circumstances:
• Infringements committed by Customer are considered serious infringements as follows
[Article 83 (2) (a) GDPR]:
She

Infringements found - breach of the principle of data protection, legal basis
without prejudice to the transparency of data processing and the transparency of information,
were of a continuous nature, given that during the period considered
persisted .;

She

The infringement affects a large number of parties concerned [Article 83 (2) (a) GDPR]:
▪ personal data taken in connection with the baby waiting loan
Infringement by inadequate information on the management of
Customer is all expecting a loan agreement or expecting a baby
affects a customer in need of a loan. The Client did it during an official inspection
According to the statement, […] person requested a baby waiting period during the study period
a loan, of which the Client has entered into a contract with […] persons;
▪ the health data in the pregnancy care book is illegal
treatment involved a total of […] women during the study period.

She

The subject of the present case is a financial arrangement in which the Client
contractual partners are families or in any special life situation
women who are in their most personal life situation during childbearing
they come into contact with the Client to ensure the existential future of their family
in order to. The Authority shall attach the documents attached to the circumstances of the present case

18

on the basis of which he concluded that the private sector was particularly infringed by having children
personal and health data relating to such numbers are of a general nature
his treatment.
• Customer has a significant amount of personal information that is a special category
prepared health data on pregnancy books without a legal basis
copies and the two final reports [Article 83 (2) (g) GDPR];
(78) The Authority took into account as mitigating circumstances:
• In connection with the personal data handled by the Client in the copies of the pregnancy care books
admitted to them - not including the 12th week of pregnancy and the expected birth
unlawfully handled and ordered the erasure of the copies,
or destruction. [Article 83 (2) (c) GDPR];
• Customer has reviewed its applicable data management practices and terminated the
copying pregnancy books and final reports for the future. Sample certificates
which are suitable for introduction and application in the future
line can again be used to process data in the context of a baby waiting loan
in respect of aid which is not necessary to achieve the purpose of the processing and which
has no legal basis for dealing with it. [Article 83 (2) (f) GDPR];
• The Government Decree did not fully regulate the issues of data management, it did not decide
clearly indicate how the data will be handled (eg submission under the word presentation or
copying), thus creating an uncertain legal situation in matters of data processing
created at baby-waiting loan financial institutions, including the Client. The Authority
considers it necessary to note that in such a case the data controller is concerned with the processing
data protection legislation needs to be even more careful when making decisions
and in particular to enforce data protection principles. [Article 83 (2) GDPR
paragraph (b) and (k)].
(79) In setting the fine, the Authority also took into account the fact that the Client did not do so
previously relevant data breaches. GDPR Article 83 (2) (e)]
(80) The Authority did not consider Article 83 (2) (d) and (h) of the GDPR to be relevant for the imposition of fines.
(i), (j), as they cannot be interpreted in the context of the specific case.
(81) The total amount of the Client's balance sheet in 2019 was HUF […] million, HUF […] million.
(82) The amount of the fine was determined by the Authority in accordance with its statutory discretion.
V. Other issues:
(83) The powers of the Authority are limited to Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.
(84) The decision is based on Article 80.-81. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 61 (1). The decision is based on Ákr. 82.
§ (1), it becomes final with its communication.

19

(85) Art. § 112 and § 116 (1) and § 114 (1), respectively
there is an administrative remedy against him.
(86) The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3) a)
Pursuant to point (aa) of the Act, the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. A Kp. Section 27 (1)
Legal representation shall be mandatory in proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the General Court under paragraph 1 (b).
A Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), the filing of an application is an administrative act
has no suspensive effect.
(87) A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter referred to as the Customer's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b) of the E-Administration Act
obliged to communicate electronically.
(88) The date and place of the application were set by Kp. Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee is
Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
(89) If the obligor fails to provide adequate evidence of compliance with the required obligation, the Authority will:
it considers that it has failed to fulfill its obligations within the prescribed period. The Ákr. According to § 132, if a
the obligor has not complied with the obligation contained in the final decision of the authority, it shall be enforceable.
The decision of the Authority Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final with the communication. The Ákr.
133, unless otherwise provided by law or government decree
- ordered by the decision-making authority. The Ákr. Pursuant to § 134 - enforcement if law,
a government decree or, in the case of a municipal authority, a local government decree otherwise
does not have - the state tax authority implements it. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (7) a
To carry out a specific act contained in a decision of an authority, specified
the decision as to the obligation to conduct, tolerate or stop
shall be carried out by the Authority.
Budapest, December 16, 2020

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

