
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    04/22/2021
                                Discussion about the realignment of the "Violent Sport" file - Kugelmann: Authorities must actively inform affected fans The "Violent Sport" file is a nationwide compound file in which data is stored from people who police authorities in connection with sporting events (especially football games ) have noticed. State and federal police officers have access. The authorities in which incidents are registered store the data and are responsible for providing information. In the past few months, there has been increased criticism of the file. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, says: "In my view, a realignment of the "Violent Offenders Sport" file would be useful and could result in data collection being made more transparent and comprehensible. It is overdue that the rights of data subjects are strengthened: persons whose data have been entered into the file must be proactively notified by the authorities; so far this has only happened in individual federal states, for example in Rhineland-Palatinate. Those affected must also know who they can contact with questions and complaints - for example, if they believe information was stored incorrectly or procedures have now been discontinued. This would finally take a central principle of data protection law into account. The right to information is also a prerequisite for those affected to be able to exercise their legal protection saved data. In some cases, it is not known which data categories are collected on the basis of which survey. In the course of realigning the file, it should also be checked whether the threshold values can be increased, i.e. whether minor offenses or misdemeanors that currently lead to recording can be deleted. It is understandable that authorities generally support a corresponding file. A new structure and higher data quality would also be in the interests of the security authorities. It would allow federal and state police forces to effectively ensure safety in football.”
                                return
                            



