Decision

Diary no

2020-12-02

DI-2019-3840

The board of Sahlgrenska
University Hospital
Blue line 5
413 45 Gothenburg

Supervision according to the data protection regulation and
the patient data act – needs and risk analysis and
questions about access in records systems

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

1 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Content
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision................................................... ..................................... 3
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ .......................... 4
Previous review of needs and risk analysis............................................. ..... 5
What emerged in the case................................................ ....................... 5
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has essentially stated the following........... 5
Personal data controller................................................... ................................... 5
Journal system................................................... ................................................ 6
Internal confidentiality................................................... ................................................ 6
Needs and risk analysis................................................... ........................................ 6
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients.. 8
Active Choices................................................ ................................................ ......... 9
Needs and risk analysis................................................... ........................................ 9
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients.. 9
Justification of the decision................................................... ........................................ 10
Requirement to carry out a needs and risk analysis................................... ............... 14
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... .................... 16
Sahlgrenska University Hospital's process for needs and risk analysis...... 19
Documentation of the access (logs)................................................ .............. 27
Choice of intervention................................................... ............................................ 29
Legal regulation................................................ ............................................. 29
Order................................................. ................................................... 30
Penalty fee................................................... ................................................ 31
Appendices: Appendix 1 – How to pay penalty fee............................................. ... 33
How to appeal............................................... .............................................. 34

2 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has, during its review on 23 April 2019, found that
The board of Sahlgrenska University Hospital (Sahlgrenska
University Hospital) processes personal data in violation of Article 5.1 f and
5.2 and article 32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation1 by
1.

Sahlgrenska University Hospital in capacity of
personal data controller does not meet the requirement that it should have
carried out a needs and risk analysis before awarding of
Authorizations take place in the record systems Melior and Nationell
patient overview in accordance with ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7
the patient data act (2008:355) and ch. 4 § 2 of the National Board of Health and Welfare
regulations and general advice (HSLF-FS 2016:40) on record keeping
and processing of personal data in healthcare. This
means that Sahlgrenska University Hospital has not taken
appropriate organizational measures to be able to ensure and be able to
show that the processing of the personal data has a security which is
appropriate in relation to the risks.

2. Sahlgrenska University Hospital does not limit users' rights
authorizations for access to the records systems Melior and Nationell
patient overview to what is only needed for the user to
be able to fulfill their duties in health care
according to ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 § 2 HSLFFS 2016:40. This means that Sahlgrenska University Hospital does not
has taken measures to be able to ensure and be able to show one
appropriate security for the personal data.
3. Sahlgrenska University Hospital not in Melior has documentation
of access (logs) showing which actions have been taken
with information about a patient according to ch. 4 Section 3 of the Patient Data Act and 4
Cape. Section 9 (point 1) HSLF-FS 2016:40. This means that Sahlgrenska

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection
for natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow
of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
1

3 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

The university hospital has not taken appropriate organizational measures
measures to be able to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the treatment of
the personal data has a security that is suitable in relation to
the risks.
The Data Protection Authority decides with the support of articles 58.2 and 83 of the data protection regulation and ch. 6. Section 2 of the Act (2018:218) with
supplementary provisions to the EU data protection regulation that
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, for violation of article 5.1 f and
5.2 as well as article 32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation, must pay a
administrative sanction fee of 3,500,000 (three million five hundred
thousand crowns.
Datainspektionen orders with the support of article 58.2 d i
data protection regulation Sahlgrenska University Hospital that
1.

ensure that the required needs and risk analysis is carried out and
is documented for the record systems Melior and Nationell
patient overview and that subsequently, with the support of needs and
the risk analysis, each user is assigned individual authorization for
access to personal data which is limited to only what
is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
in healthcare, in accordance with article 5.1 f and article
32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation, ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7
the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.

2. document Melior's logs in the journal system so that it appears there
what measures have been taken with personal data about a patient, i
in accordance with article 32 of the data protection regulation, ch. 4 Section 3
the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 9 (point 1) HSLF-FS 2016:40.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority started supervision by letter on 22 March 2019 and has
on site on April 23, 2019 reviewed about the Board of Directors for Sahlgrenska
University Hospital (hereinafter referred to as Sahlgrenska University Hospital)
decisions on the allocation of authorizations have been preceded by a need-and
risk analysis. The review has also covered how Sahlgrenska

4 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

University Hospital assigned permissions for access to
the main record system Melior and NPÖ, and what access options they have
the assigned authorizations provide within the framework of internal confidentiality as well
according to ch. 4 the patient data act, according to which the integrated record keeping
6 ch. the patient data act. In addition to this, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has reviewed which
documentation of access (logs) contained in the records systems.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has only reviewed users' access options
the journal system, i.e. which care documentation the user can actually take
part of and read. The inspection did not cover which functions were included
the authorization, i.e. what the user can actually do in the records system
(e.g. issuing prescriptions, writing referrals, etc.).
Previous review of needs and risk analysis
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has previously carried out an inspection regarding Sahlgrenska
The university hospital had carried out a documented needs and
risk analysis according to ch. 2 Section 6, second paragraph, second sentence of the National Board of Health and Welfare
regulations Information management and record keeping in health care
(SOSFS 2008:14). By the Data Inspectorate's decision with diary number 1607-2013,
announced on 27 March 2015, it appears that Sahlgrenska University Hospital
did not meet the requirement to carry out a needs and risk analysis according to
said regulations, and it was therefore recommended to carry out such a for
the master record system.
What emerged in the case
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has essentially stated the following.
Personal data controller
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has stated that the Board of Sahlgrenska
The University Hospital is responsible for the processing of personal data
personal data that Sahlgrenska University Hospital performs in
the main journal system Melior. Sahlgrenska University Hospital has further
stated that the National Patient Overview (NPÖ) is only a reading view which
presents information from connected systems, and that no information
stored in NPÖ. Sahlgrenska University Hospital is not
personal data controller for information displayed in NPÖ.

5 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Journal system
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has stated that since 1998 they have been using
of the main record system Melior within the framework of internal confidentiality.
Everything is regarded as internal secrecy within the framework of the Västra Götaland region.
Since May 6, 2014, Melior within the Västra Götaland region consists of a
single database (GEM), instead of the previous 27. It used to be possible to
access other units' care documentation but it was considerably more
cumbersome, which meant that employees were reluctant to read
records at other units. The current divisions of units are
the same as before but nowadays it is easier to access others
units' journals.
According to the documentation submitted by Sahlgrenska University Hospital is
896,401 patients registered in Melior at Sahlgrenska
University Hospital. The number of employees at Sahlgrenska
University Hospital is 16,731, and the number of active accounts in Melior is
24,638 pcs. Sahlgrenska University Hospital has stated that the reason for
that the number of active accounts is greater than the number of employees is that Västra
The Götaland region is an inner secrecy zone, and that Sahlgrenska
The university hospital collaborates with other administrations within Västra
The Götaland region where the employees need access to
patient information at Sahlgrenska University Hospital.
Sahlgrenska University Hospital is not part of a system for cohesion
record keeping through Melior, but is part of coherent record keeping through
the NPÖ system.
Internal confidentiality
Needs and risk analysis
At the time of the inspection, Sahlgrenska University Hospital stated i
mainly the following.
When a new employee is hired, a needs analysis is first carried out, consisting of a
assessment of which systems the employee needs access to.
The assessment is made in two steps: 1) which assignment the person has and 2) which
systems the person needs to have access to in order to carry out their work
work/assignment. Due to a limitation in the system, none is made

6 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

assessment of which tasks in Melior the employee should be able to take part in
of.
A risk analysis is then carried out, which consists of an individual-level assessment of
whether the person to be granted authority will follow the guidelines for
to share data in Melior. If this is not the case, the person should not normally
employed.
At the time of the inspection, Sahlgrenska University Hospital cannot demonstrate
an analysis for people who are employed and it is unclear whether it is documented.
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has comments on
the inspection protocol that was received by the Data Inspectorate on 27 June 2019
stated that Sahlgrenska University Hospital in September 2011 carried out
a comprehensive risk analysis, Availability to operate the electronic
the Melior patient record, regarding patient safety, information security and
technical security. The starting point for the risk analysis was at that time that
simplify access to patient data between the various units within
the hospital when the National Board of Health and Welfare considered that the division on different databases
that existed at the time posed a patient safety risk. 27 databases
was merged into a hospital common database and the general role
which is assigned to all staff who need access to the patient record
was introduced.
Previous review of needs and risk analysis
Due to the Swedish Data Protection Authority's previous review, Sahlgrenska has
The university hospital submitted a number of documents, including a risk and vulnerability analysis and a so-called simplified needs and risk analysis with
the title Needs and risk analysis when assigning individual authorization to
journal system, which is said to have been developed in the spring of 2019, to show how
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has acted according to the previous inspection
decision.
On 13 September 2019, Sahlgrenska University Hospital also joined
the document Needs and risk analysis in authorization allocation, of which it
states that "In healthcare, the patient's life and health are more important than privacy
which means that accessibility and accuracy outweigh
confidentiality from a patient safety perspective. IN
the patient record system (Melior) the employee must make an active choice for

7 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

to be able to access patient information from other care units/processes. We
makes the judgment that that function is sufficient to satisfy
the requirement of confidentiality. We consider it to be in accordance with HSLF-FS
2016:40.
Sahlgrenska University Hospital accepts the risk of
confidentiality is not prioritized as highly as accuracy and availability
until Sahlgrenska University Hospital has a technical or
organizational opportunity to prioritize confidentiality'.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has essentially stated the following.
There are two different roles when it comes to assigning read permissions to
Melior; a general role that is assigned to all employees in health and
healthcare, and a so-called operational role.
As for the general role, there are two different variants; a "general"
and a “general including emergency access”. All employees within
health care has been assigned a general role – with or without
emergency access.
The difference between the different variants is that the variant "general inclusive
emergency access" is assigned to doctors and nurses, and means that the user
have the option of opening blocked journals even outside their own
the operation, in the event that the patient cannot give his consent.
The variant "general" is assigned to other healthcare staff and secretaries, that is
say the users who are not doctors or nurses but who must have
authorization to Melior.
With the general role, the employee has access to all units
care documentation, with the exception of the clinical genetics unit which is not
included in the general authorizations. There are no additional ones
restrictions on access in Melior, apart from care documentation which
the patient himself has blocked.
The business role gives access to restricted information regarding a certain
unit. An employee must have an assignment to be assigned
business role and can only be assigned to that role for that unit

8 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

to which the employee belongs. Every business has such a business role
and in total the number of such operational roles amounts to approx. 60-70.
Active choices
During the inspection, Sahlgrenska University Hospital demonstrated how
the authorizations look like in the system, and stated, among other things, the following.
When an employee logs in to Melior, they are directed to the unit that
the employee belongs to. When the employee is logged in, there are six tabs
the right edge which gives access to different parts of the journal which
the employee chose to take part in. As a starting point, only the journal is displayed at
the device that has been selected at login, but through active selection can
employee access to other units' records.
If an employee is logged in as a nurse, it is initially only visible
nurses' journal entries. However, the employee may receive
access to journal entries of other occupational categories by ticking
boxes relating to different occupational categories. There is also the option to book
a single box that refers to all occupational categories, and thereby gain access to
journal entries of all occupational categories.
Coherent record keeping
Sahlgrenska University Hospital participates in systems for cohesion
record keeping through NPÖ, and has essentially stated the following.
Needs and risk analysis
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has not made any needs and
risk analysis before granting authorization in NPÖ.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
The patient must be registered with Sahlgrenska University Hospital i
Melior for the employee to be able to use NPÖ.
Access to NPÖ is given to healthcare personnel, mainly doctors and nurses,
and an employee assignment is required to obtain such authorization. As
starting point, only doctors and nurses are given access
NPÖ, but other categories can gain access after a separate application for
competence. In such cases, the employee may apply for an employee assignment for
coherent record keeping. The assignment of the authorizations is based on

9 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

needs and fewer employees have access to NPÖ than to Melior. For example
do nurses need to be able to make notes in the journal in Melior but they
does not need to have access to NPÖ. Those who have access to NPÖ can see everything
care documentation that is there, but active choices are required.
Documentation of the access (logs)
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has stated the following.
The documentation shown when extracting the access logs in Melior is
information about the patient, which user has opened the record, which
part of the journal that has been opened and the time and date of the last one
the opening.
It is not clear at which care unit the measures were taken or which measures
which the user has specifically taken. Sahlgrenska University Hospital has
stated that information about which unit the user is employed at can
checked by a search on where the user is employed. Various logs
must then be combined with each other.

Justification of the decision
Applicable rules
The Data Protection Regulation the primary legal source
The Data Protection Regulation, often abbreviated GDPR, was introduced on May 25, 2018 and
is the primary legal regulation when processing personal data. This
also applies in healthcare.
The basic principles for processing personal data are stated in
Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation. A basic principle is the requirement of
security according to Article 5.1 f, which states that the personal data must be processed
in a way that ensures appropriate security for the personal data,
including protection against unauthorized or unauthorized processing and against loss,
destruction or damage by accident, using appropriate
technical or organizational measures.

1 0 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

From article 5.2 it appears that the so-called the liability, i.e. that it
personal data controller must be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that the basic
the principles in point 1 are complied with.
Article 24 deals with the responsibility of the personal data controller. Of Article 24.1
it appears that the person in charge of personal data is responsible for carrying out appropriate
technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that
the processing is carried out in accordance with the data protection regulation. The actions shall
carried out taking into account the nature, scope and context of the treatment
and purpose as well as the risks, of varying degree of probability and seriousness, for
liberties and rights of natural persons. The measures must be reviewed and updated
if necessary.
Article 32 regulates security in connection with processing. According to point 1
must the personal data controller and the personal data assistant with consideration
of the latest developments, implementation costs and treatment
nature, scope, context and purpose as well as the risks, of varying nature
degree of probability and seriousness, for the rights and freedoms of natural persons
take appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a
security level that is appropriate in relation to the risk (…). According to point 2 shall
when assessing the appropriate security level special consideration is given to the risks
which the processing entails, in particular from accidental or unlawful destruction,
loss or alteration or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to
the personal data transferred, stored or otherwise processed.
Recital 75 states that when assessing the risk of natural persons
rights and freedoms, different factors must be taken into account. Among other things are mentioned
personal data subject to confidentiality, information about health or
sexual life, if there is processing of personal data concerning vulnerable physical
persons, especially children, or if the treatment involves a large number
personal data and applies to a large number of registered users.
Furthermore, it follows from reason 76 that how probable and serious the risk for it
Data subjects' rights and freedoms should be determined based on the processing
nature, scope, context and purpose. The risk should be evaluated on
basis of an objective assessment, through which it is determined whether
the data processing involves a risk or a high risk.

1 1 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Recitals 39 and 83 also contain writings that provide guidance on it
closer to the meaning of the data protection regulation's requirements for security at
Processing of personal data.
The Data Protection Regulation and the relationship with supplementary national
regulations
According to Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation, the personal data must
processed in a legal manner. In order for the treatment to be considered legal, it is required
legal basis in that at least one of the conditions in Article 6.1 is met.
Provision of health care is one such task of generality
interest referred to in Article 6.1 e.
In healthcare, the legal bases can also be legal
obligation in Article 6.1 c and exercise of authority according to Article 6.1 e
updated.
When it comes to the question of the legal bases legal obligation, generally
interest and the exercise of authority are given to the Member States, according to Article
6.2, retain or introduce more specific provisions to adapt
the application of the provisions of the Regulation to national conditions.
National law can further determine specific requirements for data processing
and other measures to ensure legal and fair treatment. But
there is not only a possibility to introduce national rules but also a
duty; Article 6.3 states that the basis for the processing referred to in
paragraph 1 c and e shall be determined in accordance with Union law or
national law of the Member States. The legal basis may also include
special provision to adapt the application of the provisions of
data protection regulation. Union law or Member States' national law
right must fulfill an objective of public interest and be proportionate to it
legitimate goals pursued.
Article 9 states that treatment of special categories of
personal data (so-called sensitive personal data) is prohibited. Sensitive
personal data includes, among other things, information about health. Article 9.2 states
the exceptions where sensitive personal data may still be processed.
Article 9.2 h states that processing of sensitive personal data may take place if
the processing is necessary for reasons related to, among other things
provision of healthcare on the basis of Union law or

1 2 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Member States' national law or according to agreements with professionals on
health area and provided that the conditions and safeguards which
referred to in point 3 are met. Article 9.3 requires regulated confidentiality.
This means that both the legal bases public interest,
exercise of authority and legal obligation such as treatment of sensitive
personal data with the support of the exception in Article 9.2 h needs
supplementary rules.
Supplementary national regulations
For Swedish purposes, both the basis for the treatment and the
the special conditions for processing personal data within health and
healthcare regulated in the Patient Data Act (2008:355), and
the patient data regulation (2008:360). In ch. 1 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act states that
the law supplements the data protection regulation.
The purpose of the Patient Data Act is that information management within health and
healthcare must be organized so that it caters for patient safety and
good quality and promotes cost efficiency. Its purpose is also to
personal data must be designed and otherwise processed so that patients' and
the privacy of other data subjects is respected. In addition, must be documented
personal data is handled and stored so that unauthorized persons do not gain access
them (Chapter 1, Section 2 of the Patient Data Act).
According to ch. 2 Section 6 of the Patient Data Act is a healthcare provider responsible for personal data
for the processing of personal data carried out by the care provider. In a region
and a municipality is any authority that provides health care
personal data controller for the processing of personal data that
the authority performs.
The supplementary provisions in the Patient Data Act aim to
take care of both privacy protection and patient safety. The legislature has
thus, through the regulation, a balance has been made in terms of how
the information must be processed to meet both the requirements for patient safety
such as the right to personal integrity in the processing of personal data.
The National Board of Health and Welfare has issued regulations with the support of the patient data regulation
and general advice on record keeping and processing of personal data i
health care (HSLF-FS 2016:40). The regulations constitute such

1 3 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

supplementary rules, which must be applied when healthcare providers treat
personal data in healthcare.
National regulations that supplement the data protection regulation's requirements for
security can be found in chapters 4 and 6. the Patient Data Act and chs. 3 and 4 HSLF-FS
2016:40.
Requirements to carry out needs and risk analysis
The care provider must according to ch. 4. § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40 make a need-and
risk analysis, before assigning authorizations in the system takes place.
That an analysis of the needs as well as the risks is required is evident from the preparatory work
to the Patient Data Act, prop. 2007/08:126 pp. 148-149, as follows.
Authorization for the staff's electronic access to information about patients must be limited to
what the executive needs to be able to perform his duties in health and
healthcare. It includes, among other things, that authorizations must be followed up and changed or restricted accordingly
hand as changes in the individual executive's duties give rise to it.
The provision corresponds in principle to Section 8 of the Care Register Act. The purpose of the provision is to
inculcate the duty of the responsible health care provider to make active and individual
authorization assignments based on analyzes of which detailed information different
personnel categories and different types of operations need. But it is not only necessary
needs analyses. Risk analyzes must also be carried out where different types of risks are taken into account such as
may be associated with excessively wide availability regarding certain types of information.
Protected personal data marked confidential, information about publicly known persons,
data from certain clinics or medical specialties are examples of categories such as
may require special risk assessments.
Generally speaking, it can be said that the more extensive an information system is, the greater the quantity
different authorization levels there must be. Decisive for decisions on eligibility for e.g. various
categories of healthcare professionals to electronic access to records i
patient records should be that the authorization should be limited to what the executive needs
for the purpose of good and safe patient care. A more extensive or coarse meshed
assignment of authorization should - even if it would have points from an efficiency point of view - be considered as an unjustified dissemination of medical records within a business and as such should
not accepted.
Furthermore, data should be stored in different layers so that more sensitive data requires active choices or
otherwise are not as easily accessible to staff as less sensitive information. When it
applies to personnel who work with operational follow-up, statistical production, central
financial administration and similar activities that are not individual-oriented, probably
the majority of executives have access to information that can only be derived indirectly
to individual patients. Electronic access to code keys, social security numbers and others
information that directly points out individual patients should be able to be strong in this area
limited to single persons.

1 4 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Internal confidentiality
The provisions in ch. 4 The Patient Data Act concerns internal confidentiality, i.e.
regulates how privacy protection must be handled within a healthcare provider's operations
and especially employees' opportunities to prepare access to
personal data that is electronically available in a healthcare provider's
organisation.
It appears from ch. 4. Section 2 of the Patient Data Act that the healthcare provider must decide
conditions for granting authorization to access such information about
patients who are transported fully or partially automated. Such authorization shall
is limited to what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
tasks within health care.
According to ch. 4 § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40, the care provider must be responsible for each
users are assigned an individual authorization for access to
personal data. The healthcare provider's decision on the allocation of authorization shall
preceded by a needs and risk analysis.
Coherent record keeping
The provisions in ch. 6 the Patient Data Act concerns coherent record keeping,
which means that a care provider - under the conditions stated in § 2 of the same
chapter - may have direct access to personal data processed by others
care provider for purposes related to care documentation. Access to
information occurs through a healthcare provider making the information about a patient
which the healthcare provider registers about the patient available to other healthcare providers
who participate in the coherent record keeping (see prop. 2007/08:126 p. 247).
Of ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act follows that the regulations in ch. 4 § 2 also
applies to assignment of authorization in case of joint record keeping. The requirement of
that the care provider must carry out a needs and risk analysis before awarding
authorizations in the system takes place, also applies in systems for cohesion
record keeping.
Documentation of access (logs)
Of ch. 4 Section 3 of the Patient Data Act states that a healthcare provider must ensure that
access to such patient data that is held in whole or in part
automatically documented and systematically checked.
According to ch. 4 § 9 HSLF-FS 2016:40 the care provider must be responsible for

1 5 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

1.

it is clear from the documentation of the access (logs) which
actions taken with data about a patient;
2. the logs show which care unit or care process
the measures have been taken,
3. it is clear from the logs at which time the measures were taken,
4. the identity of the user and the patient can be seen in the logs.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
Personal data controller's responsibility for security
As described above, in the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations, the care provider is given a
responsibility for information management in healthcare, such as, for example,
conduct a needs and risk analysis before granting authorizations i
the system takes place. In the public health and medical care does not coincide
always the concept of care provider with the personal data controller.
Of both the basic principles in Article 5 and Article 24.1
data protection regulation, it appears that it is the personal data controller
which must implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to
ensure and be able to demonstrate that the treatment is carried out in accordance with
data protection regulation.
The Data Protection Authority can state that the data protection regulation in the capacity of
The EU regulation is directly applicable in Swedish law and that in the regulation
is specified when supplementary regulation must or may be introduced nationally. There is
for example space to nationally regulate who is
personal data controller according to Article 4 of the data protection regulation. It is
however, it is not possible to provide deviating regulation regarding it
responsibility of the data controller to take appropriate technical and
organizational measures to ensure a level of security that is appropriate i
relation to the risk. This means that the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations that state
that it is the caregiver who must take certain measures, does not change that
the responsibility to take appropriate security measures rests with it
personal data controller according to the data protection regulation. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
can state that Sahlgrenska University Hospital, in the capacity of
personal data controller, is responsible for these measures being taken.
As previously described, it is stated in article 24.1 of the data protection regulation one
general requirement for the personal data controller to take appropriate technical

1 6 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

and organizational measures. The requirement partly aims to ensure that
the processing of the personal data is carried out in accordance with
the data protection regulation, partly that the person in charge of personal data must be able to
show that the processing of the personal data is carried out in accordance with
data protection regulation.
The security in connection with the treatment is regulated more specifically in the articles
5.1 f and 32 of the data protection regulation.
Article 32.1 states that the appropriate measures must be both technical and
organizational and they must ensure a level of security that is appropriate in
relation to the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons which
the treatment entails. It is therefore necessary to identify the possible ones
the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects and assesses
the likelihood of the risks occurring and the severity if they occur.
What is appropriate varies not only in relation to the risks but also
based on the nature, scope, context and purpose of the treatment. It has
thus meaning what kind of personal data is processed, how many
data, the question is, how many people process the data, etc.
Health care has a great need for information in its operations. The
it is therefore natural that the possibilities of digitization are utilized as much as possible
possible in healthcare. Since the Patient Data Act was introduced, one has a lot
extensive digitization has taken place in healthcare. As well as the data collections
size as how many people share information with each other has increased
substantially. This increase means at the same time that the demands on it increase
personal data controller, because the assessment what is an appropriate
safety is affected by the extent of processing.
There is also the issue of sensitive personal data. The information concerns
people who are in a dependent situation when they are in need of care.
It is also often a question of a lot of personal data about each of these
people and the data may over time be processed by very
many people in healthcare. All in all, this places great demands on it
personal data controller.
The data that is processed must be protected against external actors as well
the business as against unauthorized access from within the business. It appears
of article 32.2 that the personal data controller, when assessing the appropriate

1 7 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

security level, in particular must take into account the risks of accidental or illegal
destruction, loss or for unauthorized disclosure or access. In order to
able to know what is an unauthorized access it must
personal data controller is clear about what constitutes an authorized access.
Needs and risk analysis
In ch. 4 § 2 The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations (HSLF-FS 2016:40) which supplement
the patient data act states that the care provider must make a needs assessment
risk analysis before assigning authorizations in the system takes place. This means that
national law prescribes requirements for an appropriate organizational measure that shall
is taken before assigning authorizations to the record system takes place.
A needs and risk analysis must partly contain an analysis of the needs, partly a
analysis of the risks based on an integrity perspective that may be associated
with an excessively wide allocation of authorization for access to personal data
about patients. Both the needs and the risks must be assessed based on them
information that needs to be processed in the business, what processes it is
the question of whether and what risks exist for the individual's privacy.
The assessments of the risks need to take place based on organizational level, there
for example, a certain part of the business or task may be more
more sensitive to privacy than another, but also based on the individual level, if that is the case
the question of special circumstances that need to be taken into account, such as for example
that it is a matter of protected personal data, generally known persons or
otherwise particularly vulnerable persons. The size of the system also affects
the risk assessment. It appears from the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act that the more
comprehensive an information system is, the greater the variety
authorization levels there must be. (prop. 2007/08:126 p. 149). It is thus
the question of a strategic analysis at a strategic level, which should provide a
authority structure that is adapted to the business and this must be maintained
updated.
In summary, the regulation requires that the risk analysis identifies


different categories of data (for example, data about health),



categories of data subjects (for example, vulnerable natural persons and
children), or



the extent (for example, the number of personal data and registered)

1 8 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840



negative consequences for data subjects (e.g. damages,
significant social or economic disadvantage, deprivation of rights
and freedoms),

and how they affect the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons at
Processing of personal data. This also applies to internal confidentiality
as with coherent record keeping.
The risk analysis must also include special risk assessments, for example
based on whether there are protected personal data that are
classified as confidential, information about publicly known people, information from
certain receptions or medical specialties (prop. 2007/08:126 p. 148149).
The risk analysis must also include an assessment of how likely and how serious
the risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects is and in any case determine
whether it is a question of a risk or a high risk (reason 76).
It is thus through the needs and risk analysis that it
data controller finds out who needs access, which
data the access possibility must include, at which times and in which
context the access is needed, and at the same time analyzes the risks to it
individual freedoms and rights that the processing may lead to. The result shall
then lead to the technical and organizational measures needed to
ensure that no other access than that which is necessary and
the risk analysis shows is justified should be able to take place.
When a needs and risk analysis is missing prior to granting authorization i
system, there is no basis for the personal data controller on a legal basis
way must be able to assign their users a correct authorization. The
personal data controller is responsible for, and must have control over, it
personal data processing that takes place within the scope of the business. To
assign users a case of access to the record system, without this being established
on a performed needs and risk analysis, means that the personal data controller
does not have sufficient control over the personal data processing that takes place in
the record system and also cannot show that he has the control that
is required.

1 9 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Sahlgrenska University Hospital's process for needs and risk analysis
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has within the scope of the supervisory case
referred to three different processes or documents stated to constitute one
needs and risk analysis. Regarding the process that Sahlgrenska
The university hospital referred to at the time of the inspection this passed
partly in an assessment of which assignments the person has and which systems
the person needs to have access to, partly in an individual-level assessment of whether
the employee to be hired seemed inclined to share information
in the records system in violation of current guidelines.
The Data Inspectorate can state that Sahlgrenska University Hospital does not
has carried out an analysis relating to the business, various processes and
staff categories' need to process data. What is described is
instead, only an assessment of which systems an employee needs to have
access to.
The risk analysis Sahlgrenska University Hospital describes is about a
different risk assessment than that referred to in the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations. IN
needs and risk analysis, risks to the individual's integrity must be identified.
As can be seen from the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act, certain data may require
special risk assessment and protected personal data is given as an example
which are marked confidential, information about generally known persons, information
from certain receptions or medical specialties. So it is not
the assessment of the employee referred to in this context. On the contrary have
the legislator highlighted precisely that even if the health care should be able to have large
trust in its employees, it is not in itself sufficient protection,
The deep-rooted ethical principle of trust confidentiality in health care for
information that emerges in the contact between healthcare personnel and patient
obviously constitutes a strong counterforce against gossiping about patients or otherwise spreading information
in an unacceptable way among co-workers. The same applies to the propensity to
find out information about patients who are cared for at the workplace but for whom you do not have one yourself
professional relationship to. Given the scale and scope of healthcare
the number of employed healthcare personnel, around 300,000 people in the municipalities alone
and the county council's health and medical care, however, it cannot be assumed that this is not the case at all
occurs.
The development towards common widely available electronic medical record systems within the majors
At the same time, the caregivers' activities entail increased risks for privacy breaches. If it increased
potential accessibility to medical records is not managed in a good way so that patients
can feel confident that sensitive information is not read by unauthorized persons, there is a high risk of
that patients choose to be outside systems with electronic access.

2 0 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

A mix of preventive and reactive measures is needed so that patient data does not
must be handled in an unacceptable manner (prop. 2007/08:126 pp. 147-147).

The process that Sahlgrenska explained at the time of the inspection constitutes
thus not a needs and risk analysis according to ch. 4. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The document Availability for operation of the electronic patient record
Melior
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has in supplementary information that
received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority on 27 June 2019 stated that the document
Availability for operation of the electronic patient record Melior constitutes one
needs and risk analysis. The document is said to have been drawn up in 2011 and to have
point of departure is to simplify access to patient data between the different
the units within the hospital. However, it can be stated that by
the document states that it aims to carry out a risk analysis regarding
the operation of the record system Melior. In the section “Risk identification and
underlying causes" the identified risks are attributed either to "Part 1:
Patient safety and operational perspective" or "Part 2: Technical safety
with respect to availability for operation”.
Regarding the needs analysis, the document does not contain an analysis of which
tasks the employees need to be able to perform their tasks
duties. Regarding the risk analysis, examples of risks are as
identified in Part 1: Patient safety and operational perspective that "All IT-related deviations that may affect patient safety are not reported",
or "The wrong patient is dictated to the wrong dictation". Risks identified in Part 2:
Technical security with respect to accessibility to operation is, for example, "unauthorized
access to medical record information”, caused by “transfer taking place via
open networks”. There are risks from an information security perspective, but
the document does not contain an analysis of the risks that may be associated
with an excessively wide availability regarding different types of personal data.
The document is thus an analysis from an operational perspective and fulfills
not the requirements for a needs and risk analysis from an integrity perspective according to 4
Cape. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The document risk and vulnerability analysis
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has also on the occasion of
The Data Inspectorate's inquiry about what measures have been taken after

2 1 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

the authority's decision 1607-2013, in which Sahlgrenska University Hospital
was instructed to produce a documented needs and risk analysis, stated that
a needs and risk analysis was carried out in the spring of 2019. Sahlgrenska
The university hospital has submitted three different documents, a risk and
vulnerability analysis, a so-called simplified needs and risk analysis with the title
Needs and risk analysis when assigning individual authorization to
journal system, and a document entitled Needs and risk analysis at
assignment of authority which can be said to constitute a concise account of how
the other two documents are used in the business. Initially, it can
it is established that the documents were only produced four years after the Data Inspectorate's
order. In addition, none of the submitted documents constitute a needs and risk analysis based on an integrity perspective.
Regarding the risk and vulnerability analysis, it is an analysis that must be carried out
according to the legislation on high preparedness and crisis preparedness2. One such happens
for other purposes and is not the same as a needs and risk analysis
according to ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
It is clear from the risk and vulnerability analysis that a measure to manage a
too in case of authorization must be to carry out a simplified needs and
risk analysis when granting authorization. The document thus establishes that a
needs and risk analysis must be carried out, but does not in itself constitute one.
The document does not contain an analysis of what tasks the employees have
needs in the record system to be able to perform their duties. The
there are parts that concern the risk to the individual's privacy, but the so-called
the identified consequences do not constitute an analysis of the risks in question
the case but rather a statement of facts, such as for example that a consequence
of the fact that the internal secrecy area is extensive is that "VGR has many
employee which can lead to the authorizations being too broad, which gives
employees more authority than they need”. In some parts contains
the document identified risks that, however, do not aim to protect against
privacy of the individual; for example, it is stated that a consequence of that
the employees do not know what applies when accessing patient data
is that "when requesting a log extract, patients can see that an unauthorized person has looked into
journal, bad will for SU".

Act (2006:544) on measures by municipalities and county councils before and during extraordinary events
events in peacetime and heightened preparedness, regulation (2015:1052) on crisis preparedness and
measures of authorities responsible for security in the event of heightened alertness.
2

2 2 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

In summary, the Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the document does not
contains analyzes of the need for access to personal data or the risks
for the integrity of the individual which arises through an overly wide
authorization assignment, and thus does not meet the requirements for a need-and
risk analysis from an integrity perspective according to ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.

The simplified needs and risk analysis
Regarding the simplified needs and risk analysis that Sahlgrenska determines in the risk and vulnerability analysis must be carried out when authorization is granted,
it is initially established that it is not compatible with ch. 4. § 2 HSLFFS 2016:40 to only perform a simplified needs and risk analysis. Further
the document consists of a list of 14 questions to be answered with yes or
no, such as "the employee knows that the computer must not be left unlocked,
without supervision?”. The Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that it is rather a matter of
a document to be used to create the conditions for a good
information security at the individual level. It is an organizational measure to
ensure an appropriate level of security, but it is not an analysis of the need for
access to personal data or what risks to the individual's privacy which
arises through an overly broad authorization control. Thus does not fulfill
rather this document the requirements for a needs and risk analysis from one
privacy perspective according to ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
The document Needs and risk analysis in authorization allocation
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has also submitted a document in which
it briefly describes the work with needs and risk analysis. The document
briefly describes how the risk and vulnerability analysis and the simplified
the needs and risk analysis is used in the business, and how Sahlgrenska
The university hospital prioritizes accuracy and accessibility
confidentiality. The document contains no analyzes of the need for access
to personal data or the risks to the individual's privacy which
arises through an overly broad authorization assignment, and fulfills
thus not the requirements for a needs and risk analysis from according to ch. 4. § 2 HSLF-FS
2016:40. Instead, the document shows that Sahlgrenska University Hospital
deliberately downplays the requirement for confidentiality.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's summary assessment

2 3 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

As indicated above, in a needs and risk analysis both the needs and
the risks are assessed based on the information that needs to be processed in
the business, which processes it is a question of and which risks to it
individual integrity that exists both organizationally and individually
level. It is thus a question of a strategic analysis at a strategic level, which
must provide an authorization structure that is adapted to the business. It should
result in authorization assignment instructions but it is not
the instructions to the assigner of permissions which is the analysis.
In the Data Inspectorate's review, Sahlgrenska University Hospital has
not been able to demonstrate any need and risk analysis - either within the framework of
the internal secrecy or within the framework of the cohesive
record keeping. Sahlgrenska University Hospital's documents lack it
the basic inventory of user needs for access and analysis
of risks, and there has also been no trade-off between needs and those
actual privacy risks that the processing of personal data gives rise to.
In summary, the Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the documents which
have been reported do not individually or together meet the requirements set
on a needs and risk analysis and that Sahlgrenska University Hospital does not
have been able to show that they have carried out a needs and risk analysis in that sense
as referred to in ch. 4 § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40, whether within the framework of the internal
confidentiality or within the framework of the coherent record keeping, according to 4
and ch. 6 respectively. the patient data act. This means that Sahlgrenska
The University Hospital has not taken appropriate organizational measures i
in accordance with article 5.1 f and article 31.1 and 31.2 in order to ensure and,
in accordance with Article 5.2, be able to demonstrate that the processing of the personal data
has a security that is suitable in relation to the risks.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
As has been reported above, a care provider may have a legitimate interest in having
a comprehensive processing of information about the health of individuals. Regardless of this shall
access possibilities to personal data about patients be limited to
what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill his duties.
Regarding the assignment of authorization for electronic access according to ch. 4.
§ 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act, it appears from the preliminary works, prop.
2007/08:126 pp. 148-149, i.a. that there must be different authorization categories in
the journal system and that the authorizations must be limited to what the user

2 4 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

need to provide the patient with good and safe care. It also appears that "one
more expansive or coarse-grained authority assignment should be considered a
unjustified dissemination of medical records within a business and should as
such is not accepted.”
In healthcare, it is the person who needs the data in their work
who may be authorized to access them. This applies both within a
caregivers as between caregivers. It is, as already mentioned, through
the needs and risk analysis that the personal data controller finds out about whom
who needs access, which data the access should cover, at which
times and in which contexts the access is needed, and at the same time
analyzes which risks to the individual's freedoms and rights are
the treatment can lead to. The result should then lead to the technical and
organizational measures needed to ensure that no allocation
of authorization provides further access possibilities than the one that needs and
the risk analysis shows is justified. An important organizational action is to give
instructions to those who have the authority to assign permissions on how to do this
should go to and what should be taken into account so that, with the needs and risk analysis
as a basis, will be a correct authorization assignment in each individual case.
As revealed in the case, approximately 900,000 patients are registered in Melior at
Sahlgrenska University Hospital and the number of active accounts in Melior is
nearly 25,000, which exceeds the number of employees at Sahlgrenska
The university hospital, which at the time of the inspection was close to 18,000.
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has assigned the employees who work
with healthcare a general authorization role – with or without
emergency access – which gives access to all units' care documentation,
with the exception of the clinical genetics unit which is not included in those
the general permissions. The majority of users have thus had actual
access to most of this information. This means that
Sahlgrenska University Hospital does not have a sufficient extent
limited users' authorizations for access to personal data about
patients in the record system Melior.
In addition, it can be stated that Sahlgrenska University Hospital has given
direct access to personal data about patients at Sahlgrenska
The university hospital for employees at other administrations within Västra
The Götaland region.

2 5 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Access to personal data in Melior requires the user to be active
choice. Sahlgrenska University Hospital has stated that they assess that
the active choice function is sufficient to satisfy the requirement of confidentiality
and that it is in accordance with HSLF-FS 2016:40. The Swedish Data Protection Authority can
however, state that the Patient Data Act requires both limitation
of permissions and active choices. The active selection function is therefore not an action
to compensate for a missed access restriction. To Sahlgrenska
The university hospital makes use of the above active choice is one
privacy-enhancing measure, but does not constitute such a limitation of
authorization referred to in ch. 4 Section 2 of the Patient Data Act. This provision
requires that the authorization be limited to what is necessary for it
individuals must be able to fulfill their duties within health and medical care,
i.e. only those who need the data should have access to it
them.
Of the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act, prop. 2007/08:126, p. 149, it appears that
the purpose of the provisions is to inculcate the obligation of the person responsible
the care provider to make active and individual authorization assignments from the outside
analyzes of which detailed information different staff categories and different
kind of businesses need. Because different users have different
tasks in different work areas, users need access to
the data in Melior is limited to reflect this. Of the preparatory works
it also appears that information should be stored in different layers so that more sensitive
tasks require active choices or are otherwise not as easily accessible for
the staff as less sensitive information.
That the assignment of authorizations has not been preceded by a need-and
risk analysis means that Sahlgrenska University Hospital has not analyzed
the users' need for access to the data, the risks that this access poses
can entail and thus also not identified which access is
justified to the users based on such an analysis. Sahlgrenska
The university hospital has thus not used appropriate measures, i
in accordance with Article 32, to restrict users' access to
the patients' data in the record system.
Regarding the processing of personal data by Sahlgrenska
The university hospital performs within the framework of the cohesive
record keeping in the NPÖ system, it can initially be stated that

2 6 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Sahlgrenska University Hospital has stated that Sahlgrenska
The University Hospital is not the personal data controller for that information
as shown in NPÖ. The Swedish Data Protection Authority does not share this view. According to 2
Cape. Section 6 of the Patient Data Act, in a region every authority that provides health care is the personal data controller for the processing of personal data
which the authority carries out. According to the second paragraph of the provision includes
the responsibility for personal data also such processing of personal data as
the care provider, or the authority in a region or a municipality that is
personal data controller, performs when the care provider or the authority through
direct access in an individual case prepares access to personal data about a
patient with another healthcare provider or other authority in the same region or
municipality. Sahlgrenska University Hospital is thus
personal data controller for the processing of personal data that takes place when
the employees share information in NPÖ.
Regarding access to personal data within the framework of it
cohesive record keeping in the NPÖ system has approx. 7,000 users
Sahlgrenska University Hospital access. The Swedish Data Protection Authority can
state that a limitation has been made regarding the number of users in
relation to the approx. 25,000 who have authorization in Melior, but do not
made any restriction regarding which documentation such as these
users can take part in the NPÖ system.
This in turn has meant that there has been a risk of unauthorized access and
unjustified dissemination of personal data partly within the framework of the internal
confidentiality, partly within the framework of coherent record keeping.
Against the background of the above, the Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has processed personal data in violation of
article 5.1 f and article 32.1 0ch 32.2 of the data protection regulation by
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has not limited the users
authorizations for access to the record system Melior to what only
is needed for the user to be able to fulfill his tasks within
health care according to ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and 4
Cape. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40. This means that Sahlgrenska
The University Hospital has not taken measures to be able to ensure and,
in accordance with Article 5.2 of the Data Protection Regulation, be able to show a suitable
security of personal data.

2 7 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Documentation of the access (logs)
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the logs showing access in Melior
contains information about the user's name and role, the identity of the patients,
which part of the record has been opened (eg record, referrals, certificate – any
of "the six tabs") and at what date and time the measures were taken.
It is not clear at which care unit the measure was taken or which ones
actions that the user has specifically taken. Sahlgrenska has stated that
information about which care unit the user is employed at can be checked
through a search on where the user is employed. Sahlgrenska means therefore
that by combining different logs you can find out which care unit
as the action has been taken. Each log entry in the logs constitutes the action “open
journal". In addition, it is not clear what actions the user has
taken with information about a patient.
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has in the statement received to
The Swedish Data Protection Authority stated on 17 March 2020 that the measures shown in
the logs are if an employee has opened the journal, about access to data
took place through active selection and if the employee from the record has made one
exit to other care units. Sahlgrenska University Hospital states
further that the documentation in the logs creates conditions for
implement access controls in an effective manner, and that the logs
meets the requirement to log what actions have been taken with data
about a patient.
It appears from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's Handbook in the application of
The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice (HSLF-FS 2016:40) that
"The care provider is responsible, among other things, for the documentation of
the access (logs) shows which actions have been taken with data
about a patient. An active choice to access information about a patient
an example of an action to be logged”.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the purpose of the requirement that measures be
documented in the logs is not only to check whether an employee
prepared to access the record, but also what measures were taken with it
information about a patient. The action documented in the logs "open
journal” is an example of an action that should be logged, and in addition should also
other actions taken with information about a patient are documented in
the logs. Other such measures may be that personal data is established,
copied, transmitted, blocked, destroyed or printed. the purpose with

2 8 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

the security measure logs is to answer the question who did what, it wants
say who took which action, with which personal data and when. This
constitutes an important part for the personal data controller to fulfill the requirement for
appropriate security measures to have control over the personal data and
how they are treated. The purpose of the access control security measure is to
ensure that users do not misuse their permissions by
to read, change or delete information that they should not process. To
Sahlgrenska University Hospital only introduced documentation of the measure
"open journal", is thus not sufficient to fulfill the requirement in ch. 4. Section 9
(point 1) HSLF-FS 2016:40 that the documentation of the access shall
state which measures have been taken with information about a patient.
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has thus treated and is treating
personal data in violation of ch. 4 Section 3 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 9 (point
1) HSLF-FS 2016:40. This means that Sahlgrenska University Hospital does not
has taken technical and organizational measures that are appropriate in
relation to the risk. Sahlgrenska University Hospital thus complies
not the requirement to ensure appropriate security for the processing of
the personal data, according to article 32 of the data protection regulation.

Choice of intervention
Legal regulation
If there has been a breach of the data protection regulation has
Datainspektionen a number of corrective powers to be available according to article
58.2 a–j of the data protection regulation. The supervisory authority can, among other things
order the personal data controller to ensure that the processing takes place in
in accordance with the regulation and if required in a specific manner and within a
specific period.
It follows from Article 58.2 of the data protection regulation that the Data Inspectorate i
pursuant to Article 83 shall impose penalty charges in addition to or in lieu of
other corrective measures referred to in Article 58(2), depending
the circumstances of each individual case.
For authorities, according to Article 83.7 of the Data Protection Regulation, national
rules state that authorities can impose administrative penalty fees.
According to ch. 6 § 2 of the Data Protection Act, penalty fees can be decided for
authorities, but to a maximum of SEK 5,000,000 alternatively SEK 10,000,000

2 9 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

depending on whether the violation relates to articles covered by Article 83(4).
or 83.5 of the data protection regulation.
In Article 83.2 of the Data Protection Regulation, the factors to be taken into account are specified
to decide whether an administrative penalty fee should be imposed, but also
what will affect the size of the penalty fee. Of central importance to
the assessment of the seriousness of the violation is its nature, severity and
duration. If it is a question of a minor violation may
the supervisory authority, according to recital 148 of the data protection regulation, issue a
reprimand instead of imposing a penalty fee.
Order
Health care has, as mentioned, a great need for information in its
business and in recent years has had a very extensive digitization
occurred in healthcare. Both the size of the data collections and how many there are
share information with each other has increased significantly. This increases the demands on
the personal data controller, because the assessment what is appropriate
safety is affected by the extent of processing.
In healthcare, this means that a great deal of responsibility rests on it
personal data controller to protect the data from unauthorized access,
among other things by having an authorization assignment that is even more
finely divided. It is therefore essential that there is a real analysis of the needs
based on different businesses and different managers. Equally important is that
there is an actual analysis of the risks based on an integrity perspective
can occur in the event of an excessive assignment of authorization to access. From
this analysis must then be limited to the individual executive's access.
This authorization must then be followed up and changed or restricted accordingly
hand that changes in the individual executive's duties provide
reason for it.
The Data Inspectorate's supervision has shown that Sahlgrenska University Hospital
have not taken appropriate security measures to provide protection to
the personal data in the record system by Sahlgrenska
University Hospital, in its capacity as data controller, has not followed the requirements
as stated in the Patient Data Act and the regulations of the National Board of Health and Welfare. Sahlgrenska
The University Hospital has thereby failed to comply with the requirements in Article 5.1 f
and article 32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation. The omission includes

3 0 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

as well as the internal secrecy according to ch. 4. the patient data act as it
coherent record keeping according to ch. 6 the patient data act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore orders with the support of Article 58.2 d i
data protection regulation Sahlgrenska University Hospital to ensure that
required needs and risk analysis is carried out and documented for
the record systems Melior and National patient overview and that thereafter, with
support of the needs and risk analysis, each user is assigned individually
authorization for access to personal data which is limited to what only
which is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill his duties within
healthcare, in accordance with Article 5.1 f and Article 32.1 and 32.2 i
data protection regulation, ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and 4
Cape. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has also failed to in the logs in Melior
indicate what actions have been taken with data about a patient, a requirement
which appears from ch. 4. Section 3 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 9 (point 1) HSLF-FS
2016:40. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore instructs Sahlgrenska
The University Hospital to introduce documentation in the logs in Melior where it
must state what measures have been taken with personal data about a
patient according to ch. 4 Section 3 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 9 (point 1) HSLF-FS
2016:40.
Penalty fee
The Data Inspectorate can state that the violations basically refer to
Sahlgrenska University Hospital's obligation to take appropriate measures
security measures to provide protection for personal data according to
data protection regulation.
In this case, it is a matter of large collections of sensitive data
personal data and extensive permissions. The caregiver needs to
necessity to have extensive processing of information about individuals' health.
However, it must not be unrestricted, but must be based on what individuals do
employees need to be able to perform their tasks. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
states that it is a matter of data that includes direct identification
of the individual through both name, contact details and social security number,
information about health, but that it may also concern other private information
information about, for example, family relationships, sex life and lifestyle. The patient
is dependent on receiving care and is thus in a vulnerable situation. of the data

3 1 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

nature, extent and the patients' dependency status give caregivers a
particular responsibility to ensure patients' right to adequate protection for their
personal data.
Further aggravating circumstances are that the treatment of
personal data about patients in the main record system is at the core of a
care provider's activities, that the treatment covers many patients and that
the possibility of access does not only concern a large percentage of the employees but that
Sahlgrenska University Hospital has also provided access to a large number
employees at other administrations within the Västra Götaland region. In this
cases, it concerns around 900,000 patients within the framework of the internal
confidentiality, nearly 18,000 employees and 25,000 active accounts. There is
only one unit, the Clinical Genetics Unit, where the data is not accessible
for the users outside of these devices because the device is excluded from
the general authorizations.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can also state that Sahlgrenska
The university hospital has not followed the Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision from 27
March 2015. In the decision, Sahlgrenska University Hospital was submitted to
carry out a documented needs and risk analysis according to what was then in place
the requirement ch. 2 Section 6 second paragraph second sentence SOSFS 2008:14, which
corresponds to the current provision in ch. 4. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40. This is a
aggravating circumstance, according to article 83.2 e of the data protection regulation.
The deficiencies that have now been established have thus been known to Sahlgrenska
the university hospital for several years, which means that the action took place
intentional and thus considered more serious.
The Data Inspectorate also states that Sahlgrenska University Hospital i
information received in the case has stated that the care provider accepts
the risk of confidentiality not being prioritized as highly as accuracy and
availability. As the Swedish Data Protection Authority understands it, Sahlgrenska has
The university hospital has actively taken a position to de-prioritize taking
measures to protect the privacy of the individual, which makes the action
more serious.
Taken together, these factors mean that the violations cannot be assessed
as minor infractions without infractions that should lead to one
administrative penalty fee.

3 2 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

The Swedish Data Protection Authority believes that the violations have a close connection to
each other. That assessment is based on the fact that the needs and risk analysis must
form the basis for the assignment of the authorizations. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
therefore considers that these violations are so closely related to each other
that they constitute connected data processing according to Article 83.3 i
data protection regulation. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore determines a joint
penalty fee for the violations.
Regarding the deficiencies in the logs, the Data Inspection Authority can state that not
all data that should be included in the logs do so, but that logging mainly
contains the information required according to the regulations of the National Board of Health and Welfare.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore considers it sufficient that Sahlgrenska
The university hospital is ordered to correct the deficiency and therefore does not decide
any special penalty fee for this violation.
The administrative penalty fee must be effective, proportionate and
deterrent. This means that the amount must be determined so that it
the administrative sanction fee leads to correction, that it provides a preventive measure
effect and that it is also proportionate in relation to current as well
violations as to the solvency of the subject of supervision.
The maximum amount for the sanction fee in this case is SEK 10 million
according to ch. 6 Section 2 of the law (2018:218) with supplementary provisions to the EU's
data protection regulation.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative
the penalty fee must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive
the Data Inspectorate determines the administrative penalty fee for
Sahlgrenska University Hospital to 3,500,000 (three million five hundred
thousand crowns.
________________________________________
This decision has been made by the director general Lena Lindgren Schelin after
presentation by IT security specialist Magnus Bergström. At the final
Chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom and the unit managers are in charge
Malin Blixt and Katarina Tullstedt participated.

3 3 (34)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3840

Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2020-12-02 (This is an electronic signature)

Appendices: Appendix 1 – How to pay penalty fee
Copy for the attention of:
Data Protection Officer

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

3 4 (34)

