 

 

Athens, 19-04-2018
 

 

AP: C/EX/2977/19-04-2018
 

 

 

 

 
PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

 

      

 

 
A P O F A S H 34/2018

    

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
(Department)

 

 
The Personal Data Protection Authority met in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
composition of the Department at its headquarters on 22-11-2017 at 10:00 a.m. after

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
invitation of the President. The Deputy President, George, was present

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Batzalexis, obstructing the President of the Authority, Constantinos Menoudakos,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
and the alternate members Panagiotis Rontogiannis, Charalambos Tsiliotis and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Grigorios Tsolias, as rapporteur, replacing the regular members of Antonio

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 ymbon, pyridon of Vlachopoulos and Charalambou Anthopoulos, respectively, the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
who, although legally summoned in writing, did not attend due to obstruction.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Present without the right to vote was Fereniki Panagopoulou, legal auditor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
- lawyer, and Leonidas Roussos, IT auditor as assistants to the rapporteur

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
and Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative affairs department,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
as secretary.

 

 

 

 

 
The Authority took into account the following:

 

 

 

 

 

 
 the Authority was forwarded the no. prot. G/EI /1872/21-03-2014

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
appeal document of A (hereinafter "the appellant") against the person in charge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
processing company N. CRETE - G. DAIRTZE S.A. PAPER TRADE

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(hereinafter "the company") which pertains to, without prior notification and art

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in the absence of the applicant, conducting a check on the computer which

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
used in his professional field, as completed with the following

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
1

no. prot. G/EI /4985/14.8.2014, G/EI /5145/29-08-2014, G/EI /7850/12.12.2014,
 

 

 

 

 

G/EI /3102/02-06-2015, G/EI /6210/26-11-2015 and G/EI /882/06-02-2017 documents.
 

 

 

 

 

The Authority was also forwarded the no. prot. G/EI /7264/26-11-2014 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G/EI /1467/07-03-2016 answering documents of the company
 

 

 

 

 

(note also
 

 

supplementary documents).
 

 

The appellant claims that he was employed as an assistant accountant in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company, which during his absence due to sick leave, since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he investigated the corporate computer that had been assigned to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to provide his services, he then removed the hard drive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to further check it, to recover deleted files, without having
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

previously informed about it or without his consent having been obtained and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

without being present during the hard disk removal process.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It was later reported that the hard drive was sent for inspection and recovery
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data that had been deleted, according to the claims of the company and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

immediately expressed objections to this action, pointing out that in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hard drive included his personal data, which he wanted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to have access, but the company refused to satisfy his request.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Following this refusal, the appellant sent her from ... "Court
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Protest-Invitation-Declaration" to the company in which on the one hand
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complained about his lack of prior information and the lack of provision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent to the removal of the hard disk as well as the processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its contents, of its personal data, in which (processing)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

resisted, requesting the interruption of the processing, on the other hand, requesting to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be informed of the full details of the persons who carry out processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of those stored on the hard disk of the company computer,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his personal data, the purpose of processing, their recipients
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data and the time period during which the processing takes place
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

she. The appellant claims that, while he exercised in accordance with the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights arising from articles 11, 12 and 13 of Law 2472/1997, the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refused to satisfy them.
  

 

 

 

 on the contrary, the company maintains that the applicant was an employee
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of until ... when he left voluntarily when he was discharged on the same date
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his duties, his father, B, as its President and Managing Director
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company, following the resignation of D. . her, and denies his claim
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

applicant about his justified absence due to his sick leave.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, the company maintains that the applicant together with his father
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and other persons committed illegal and criminal acts against her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of her property, violating at the same time the duty of loyalty that is incumbent upon them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

result, to unfairly benefit a competing company, in which they participated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

already. For this reason, according to the company, it became necessary to check them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

files of the computer in question and its hard drive was sent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to a specialized company in order to carry out search and recovery actions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any deleted files. In particular, as mentioned verbatim in the by...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Extrajudicial Response Protest Statement Invitation with reservation of rights"
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the company against legal entities and natural persons, among which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the applicant (p. 9): "We found that his final job position from you A
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the computer located in this position had undergone an intervention
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and all correspondence etc. records had been deleted from him. Transport him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer to specialist typists but it has not been possible until today to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recover the deleted correspondence of the company for special orders
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

agreements etc.'
 

 

The company denies that it carried out illegal data processing
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal nature of the applicant arguing that from the control that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performed on the hard drive, no file found, either containing personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of the applicant, or containing data of any person,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personally or not. He claims that the appellant together with his father rushed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to remotely destroy email that was
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stored on the hard drive in question so that they are not found
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

evidence of their illegal and criminal acts, since
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

saved correspondence related to customers, billing, balances, nuisances,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

offers, moreover, all the traces of the passage from him would not appear
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

every one electronic mail computer and from electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

address given to him by the company. Finally, the company claims that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer and any contained documents and files belong to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her property, that other employees also had access to it and that in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case in which the applicant had stored personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of him, such an action took place illegally, without his knowledge and approval
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her.
  

 

3
 

The appellant refutes the above claims of the company and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

denies that he remotely interfered with the computer at issue and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deleted files stored on it.
   

 

 

 

 

The company in turn claims that the disputed hard disk
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sent to a specialized company for digital recovery of the deleted from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this data, he also attaches relevant data from 19-11-2014
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic letter according to which “[…] after checking that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it happened on the two discs you sent us...we couldn't do it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data recovery because we found no data resulting in the disks not being
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recoverable".
 

Finally, between the applicant, his father and the company there is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intense legal dispute on both sides, as can be seen from the documents which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were presented (lawsuits, insurance measures, lawsuits, etc.), for the purpose of each
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

part to support his claims.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With the nos. prot.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

documents, the APDPH invited the company and the appellant to a hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wednesday 13.9.2017 at 9.00 a.m., at the Authority's headquarters, Kifisias 1-3,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Ampelokipi, Athens,

 

 
floor, during which the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
5th
 

 
under no. prot. C/EI /1872/21.3.2014 appeal of A against the company. The company

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
came through the representative of C and the attorney-at-law of Vasiliou

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 Urla and Eleftheriou Petritsopoulos. A came in person after her

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
power of attorney of Tylianis Tsakonas.

 

 

 

 

 

 
The applicant during the hearing and subsequently with the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
under no. prot.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
the other memos and documents he had sent to the Authority, he argued

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
that in principle he acknowledges that he is not the owner of the disputed electronic

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
computer, which belongs to the company and was allocated to him for the fulfillment of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of his work obligations, without ever being informed, either verbally or

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in writing that it is prohibited to store his personal data on him

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
as the company does not have a relevant internal Regulation, nor was it included

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
relevant provision in the employment contract he signed, while he was never informed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
about the possibility and possibility of the company's access to the electronic

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
computer he was using. Moreover, the appellant argued that he had

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
4

stored exclusively on the company computer simply and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sensitive personal data, as he lacked his own computer
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in his home, nor had he kept a copy of the above files in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

portable digital data storage devices or in storage
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cloud computing. In addition, the appellant argued during the course
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the hearing and then with his reminder that he had created a separate one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic folder ("folder") with his name on the disputed electronic one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer, where his personal data was stored, in order to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

distinguished from the rest of the records relating to his work.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The applicant accepts that from time to time access to the disputed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his colleagues had a computer when he was absent, for that matter
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to look for a file necessary for the company, without raising it himself
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

objections. During the hearing and subsequently in his memorandum the appellant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

argued that the disputed computer was protected by a code, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which he disclosed to his colleagues by phone, in case of his absence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from work, when there was a need for access for company needs.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The appellant accepts that he had no objection to any processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the files that related to his work and were stored in the litigant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer and further stated that “Files or e-mails concerning
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in my work they were not the subject of my current appeal, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I know that on these professional files, the company is entitled to have
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

full access, which doesn't bother me at all."
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The appellant accepts that he cannot prove it on his part
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

storage of personal data on the computer in question, nor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provides any evidence in support of the relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

claim.
  

 

Finally, to refute the company's claim that his father
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applicant, as president of the company, had granted, on his behalf
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applicant, his consent regarding the control of the electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer, the appellant replies that the consent of a third party is not understood,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nor supposed such.
 

 

 

The company during the hearing and subsequently with the no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 

prot.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

memos and documents he had sent to the Authority, he denied having done so
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in illegal processing of the applicant's personal data and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

admitted that he initially checked the computer in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to find evidence of any illegal and criminal activity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

acts against her. the context of the control of the disputed electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer, the company claims that it has been found that its entirety has been deleted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

saved file of the electronic mail and indeed ex
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

distance. Subsequently, his hard drive was removed from the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer and sent to a specialized company in order to recover them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deleted files, but without success, as can be seen from the content
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relevant letter provided.
  

 

 

 

The company maintains that it was never informed by the applicant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for any storage of his personal data on his part
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer owned by her, nor was such storage found
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data and that in any case he had the right of access to corporate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data that was stored on a company computer, as well as on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e-mail from and to a corporate e-mail address. Yes, yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and, the company maintains that it had obtained the consent of his father
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the applicant, then president of the company, to check the disputed electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer.
  

The Authority, after examining the aforementioned data, heard him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the assistant rapporteurs, who subsequently left, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after thorough discussion,
  

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority taking into account in particular:
  

 

 

 

 

1. The provisions of the decree, and in particular those of articles 2 par. 1, 5 par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1, 9A, 17, 28, and 25.
 

 

 

 

 

 

2. The provisions of article 4 par. 1 of Law 2472/1997, according to which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"[…] the personal data to be subject to legal processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must: a) Be collected in a legitimate and legal way for specified,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clear and legitimate purposes and to be fair and lawful processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6
 

in view of these goals b) To be relevant, appropriate, and no more
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from what each time is required in view of the purposes of the processing. [...]".
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. The provisions of par. 1 of art. 5 of Law 2472/97, according to which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data is permitted in principle only
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

when the data subject has given his consent. However,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exceptionally, processing is permitted without his consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject, as long as one of the conditions provided for in par. 2 is met
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases of the same article.
 

 

 

4. The provisions of article 10 of law 2472/97 and in particular those of paragraph 3,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to which the controller must receive the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate organizational and technical measures for data security
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and their protection against accidental or wrongful destruction, accidental loss,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alteration, prohibited distribution or access and any other form
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unfair processing.
  

 

5. The provisions of par. 1 of art. 11 of Law 2472/97, according to which,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller must, during the data collection stage
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature, to inform in an appropriate and clear manner
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject at least for the purpose of the processing and the recipients
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his data and in accordance with paragraph 2 of the same article to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

requests the consent of the subject in writing.
  

 

 

 

 

 

6. The provisions of article 12 of Law 2472/97, according to which each
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has the right to know whether personal data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concern are or were the subject of processing. To this end, Mr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller, has an obligation to respond to him in writing.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7. The provisions of article 13 of Law 2472/97, according to which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subject has the right to object to the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of data concerning it.
 

 

 

 

 

8. The provisions of Directive no. 115/2001 of the Protection Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Data with regard to employee files.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. The under no. 2/2017 Opinion of the Article 29 Working Group, on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data at work (WP 249)
 
 

10. The Working Document of the Article 29 Working Group dated 5-29-2002
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the surveillance of electronic communications in the workplace
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(WP55)
 

 

7
 

11. Under no. 8/2001 Opinion of the Article 29 Working Group on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
processing of personal data in the context of work

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
relations (WP 48)
  
12. The Code of Ethics of the International Labor Organization for
 
 
protection of the personal data of its employees
 
1997.
   
13. , The under no. 2015/5 request of the Council of Ministers of 04-01-2015
 
 
 
 
 
for the processing of personal data in the context of
  
labor relations.
 
14. The under no. R (89)2 request of the Council of Ministers of 01-18-1989
 
 
for the protection of personal data received
  
processing in labor relations.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
SEVEN E ACCORDING TO THE LAW

 

 

 

 

 

Access by the employer to personal data stored in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employee's computer constitutes processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character within the meaning of article 2 paragraph d of Law 2472/1997 (see
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

61/2004). In order for the above data processing to be legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature by the employer the conditions must be met
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implementation of the provisions of articles 4, 5 and 11 of Law 2472/1997 as well as of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the provisions of the Directive 115/2001 of the Labor Code on employee records
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(regarding, see also Article 29 Working Group, Opinion 2/2017 on the processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data at work, WP 249, pp. 7 ff. and L. Mitrou, The protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employee data in Leonidas Kotsali (ed.), Personal Data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Analysis-holia-Application, Law Library, Athens 2016 p. 185 ff., especially
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

197 ff.)
 

 

 

In particular, the employer is entitled to inspect the stored
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data located on the employee's computer, among others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases, and in that of subsection e' of paragraph 2 of article 5 of Law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997, i.e. in the event that said access (processing) is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

absolutely necessary for the satisfaction of the legitimate interest it seeks as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data controller and provided that this clearly outweighs the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rights and interests of the employee, without prejudice to the fundamental
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

liberties thereof (see APDPH 37/2007). The same legal basis is adopted by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recent ECtHR jurisprudence (see Barbulescu v. Romania decision of 09-05-2017
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
8


in broad composition, para. 127).

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
The satisfaction of the legal interest (for the relevant concept see Team

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Work Article 29 Opinion 6/2014) that the employer seeks may

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
it consists, among other things, in the exercise of the directorship on his part

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of right, from which derive the subsequent obligations of loyalty to him
him1 and from them the obligation to provide information to him is deduced
 
 
as well as the control of leakage of know-how, confidential information or

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
commercial/business secrets (see L. Mitrou, Labor Inspection
of Law, 76th volume, 2017, pp. 137 ff., especially 146-147). In particular, such a law
 
 
it may be in the interest of the employer to ensure the location

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
operation of the business with the establishment of control mechanisms

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
workers (see ECHR Barbulescu v. Romania, ibid., para. 127) as well as the
his need to protect the business and its property2 from significant
 
 
threats, such as preventing the transmission of confidential information to one

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
competitor or to secure the confirmation or proof of criminal activities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of the employee (regarding, see Article 29 Working Group Working Document for

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
the surveillance of electronic communications at the workplace of 5-29-2002

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
WP55, p. 18), to the extent of course that the employer, in the latter case, does not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
enters into the exercise of investigative actions reserved by law

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
exclusively to the competent judicial-prosecution authorities and services that

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
act under their direct supervision.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Employees have a legitimate expectation of privacy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
at the place of work, which is not detracted from the fact that they use

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
equipment, communication devices or any other professional

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
facilities and infrastructure (e.g. electronic communications network, wifi, etc.) of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
employer (see APDPX 61/2004, Working Group of article 29 WP55, ibid. p. 9, L.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

                                                 
1 literally see AP (All) 1/2017 "From the provisions of articles 652 and 288 of the Civil Code and 16 of Law 146/1914
 
 
 
it follows that the employee, who has a duty of loyalty to his employer, is obliged not to
 
 
engages in competitive actions that harm the interests of the employer. Such acts, except
 
others, is the exercise for one's own account, without the knowledge of the employer, of commercial work, of similar
 
towards the actions of the latter, as well as the customer service of the employer directly by him
 
employee (AP 1285/1984)".
   
2 The managerial right of the employer is guaranteed by article 17. in combination with
 
  
 
provisions of articles 5 par. 1, 9, 9A, 22 par. 1, but also 106 par. 2 (see Fereniki Panagopoulou-
Koutnatzi, New technologies and the protection of the private sphere in the workplace,
 
European States 2/2011, pp. 325 ff., 331 ff.), through which the principle of
 
objective interest of the company that allows the judge to weigh them
 
  
conflicting interests when reviewing a decision of the employer.

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
 


Mitrou, op. op. in a collective volume Kotsali, ibid., p. 204). The distinction of boundaries

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
between private and public in the workplace has become indistinguishable

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in view of the possibility of providing the work remotely (e.g. from home or

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
during business trips) or using owned devices
to the employee (Bring Your Own Device- BYOD3) [see Article Working Group
 
 
29 Opinion 2/17, WP 249 especially pp. 4, 15, 16 and 22]. So, on his part

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
employee use of a computer belonging to and for the employer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
which has previously been expressly informed that its use is prohibited for non

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
professional reasons does not in itself constitute a legal reason for surveillance or

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
control of the personal data processed by the employee,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
but more specific information is required (regarding see ECHR, Barbulescu v Romania,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
ibid., para. 77).

 

 

 

 
In particular, from the provisions of articles 4 par. 1 sec. a' and 11 par. 1 N.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2472/1997 results in the obligation of the employer (data controller) to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
informs the employee in advance in an appropriate and clear manner

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(data subject) for the introduction and use of control methods and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
monitoring during the personnel data collection stage

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
its character (see also APDPH Directive 115/2001 ch. C' para. 3 and E' para. 8).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 according to the Working Group of article 29 the workers must

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
they are informed in advance about the surveillance of their work, the purpose

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
processing their data and other information necessary for the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
ensuring legitimate and legal processing (see Opinion 8/2001, p. 25 and Opinion

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2/2017, p. 8).

 

 

 

 

 
Moreover, when the employer monitors his electronic communications

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
employee, in addition to complying with all data protection principles

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of a personal nature in order for it to be legal and justified, shall

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
must not only inform the employee beforehand, but

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
brings to his attention a legible, clear and precise statement of the Policy and of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Surveillance procedures (see Opinion 2/2017, in particular pp. 8, 10, 14, 23, WP document

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
55, ibid. pp. 16-17, APDPH 61/2004, 37/2007).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 in this context the European Court of Human Rights

 
                                                 
3 literally see the Guide of the competent supervisory authority of the United Kingdom – Information
 
 
 
 
https://ico.org.uk/media/for-
Commissioner
 
organizations/documents/1563/ico_bring_your_own_device_byod_guidance.pdf
 
 

 
(ICO)

 
in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10
 


by decision of 05-9-2017 in the case of Barbulescu v. Romania (op. op.) ruled in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
broad synthesis that the employee's right to protection is being violated

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of private life under no. 8 E DA in a case in which it takes place

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
surveillance of his electronic communications by the employer, without having

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
previously informed about both this eventuality and the circumstances

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of carrying out such monitoring (purpose, nature, extent, degree

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
restriction of the individual right), which indeed should constitute the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

last means of achieving the intended purpose (see paras. 133-140).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

 
Unbeknownst to and in the absence of the employee, surveillance and control by him

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
employer of personnel data stored on the computer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
character and communications cannot be excluded a priori, but is reserved

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in exceptional cases, provided that such action either

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
is provided for, or does not contradict the national legislation and if the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
necessary measures and due procedures have been provided for access to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
professional electronic communication (see document WP 55, ibid. in particular pp. 5, 15,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
16, Code of Ethics of the International Labor Organization for the protection of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of personal data of employees 1997, in particular articles 6.14 and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11.8, resolution 2015/5 of the Council of Ministers of 04-01-2015 for the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
processing of personal data in the context of work

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
relations, especially articles 14.1-14.5 and 15.6).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 and in accordance with article 11.8 of the International Code of Ethics

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Organization of Work for the protection of their personal data

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
employees of 1997, the employer is entitled in the event of an audit which

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
is carried out on personal data for security reasons to refuse

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
temporarily the employee's access to them until the end of the audit

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
in order not to jeopardize the conduct of the investigation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
In addition, any control of the employee's computer without

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
prior notification of him and without his presence could be judged as

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
legal, necessary and appropriate for the achievement of the intended purpose if

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
there was a compelling reason for force majeure (see APDPH 37/2007) and since

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
the principle of proportionality was met.

 

 

 

 

 

In this case, from the data in the case file,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the hearing, the submissions and the whole process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it emerged that the company proceeded with computer control in principle
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11

used by the applicant, from whom he found the deletion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

saved files and for this reason proceeded to remove the hard drive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disk and sending it to a specialized company for their recovery
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to establish the possible performance of illegal acts aimed at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

weight of her property. Both this control and the removal of the hard
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disk from the computer took place without his presence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

applicant, without having previously been informed about the control and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

removing the hard drive and without any care being taken for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensuring the legality and objectivity of the audit process.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The claim of the company, according to which it had
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

inform and obtain the consent of the applicant's father for him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control of his computer, as consent is provided by no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 pcs. ia' N . 2472/1997 only by the data subject himself, who
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is informed beforehand.
  

 

 

 

 less so, that the direct and imperative did not arise from any evidence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

need to check the computer and remove it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hard disk without the presence of the employee, nor was it justified by the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company because a less onerous measure was not chosen, such as e.g. the temporary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

turning off and locking the computer until the call and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

presence of the applicant.
 

 

 

 

In addition, it emerged that the company did not have an internal Regulation for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proper use and operation of the IT equipment and network and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communications from employees, from the content of which it would arise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the one hand, that the use of personal computers was prohibited
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes, on the other hand, the possibility and possibility of control would be expressly provided for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these, the conditions, terms, procedure, scope and guarantees of its implementation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control.
   

 

 on the other hand, the applicant admits that access to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other colleagues also had his computer from time to time,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on the other hand, it claims to have stored personal data (just
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sensitive) on the computer in question, without however proving it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his claim (see APDPH 56/2013). And his claim that it was lacking
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal computer in his home and that all kinds of personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data (e.g. photos from leisure trips, university papers,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12
 

his electronic communications data, etc.) stored exclusively in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disputed computer of his work, in addition to being inconsistent with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lessons of common experience and logic, is not strengthened by any other
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

evidence e.g. by providing a portable digital storage
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

media (usb stick) where he kept backup copies of things so important to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

same files, from the examination of which he could (under conditions) to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

check the validity of his claim. Additionally it should be noted that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if he kept personal data on his company computer and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

namely sensitive, of the kind invoked, according to common experience and logic it will not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

allowed colleagues to access his computer
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and indeed in his absence.
 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, from the documents presented by the company it emerged that Mr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hard drive of the disputed computer was empty at the time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of carrying out the control and files that may have been stored previously, had
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

already deleted beforehand by the audit, without making it possible to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their recovery and the determination of their content.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Given therefore that the existence of the stored was not proven
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

file of personal data of the applicant in the disputed electronic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer, both during the initial control carried out by the company, and by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specialized control that took place after the removal of the hard disk, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority considers that the said appeal should be rejected in this part.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

On the contrary, regarding the obligation of the controller to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gives the data subject a satisfactory answer during its exercise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

right of access, it is established that, in this case, the company did not respond
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

satisfactory to the applicant's request to receive clear information about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the data concerning him, as well as with regard to any other element
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which concerns the further processing of his data, such as e.g. her goals
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, the recipients or categories of recipients, the evolution of the processing for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the time period since its previous update etc. (see in particular article 12
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 2 of Law 2472/1997), nor did it notify the Authority of its response,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informing the interested party that he can appeal to it (see article 12
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 4 Law 2472/1997).
 

 

 

 

 

In particular, the company, instead of providing answers to the applicant, even
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and negative of any processing of his data, identifying him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13
 

at the same time, the persons to whom he sent the electronic hard disk
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer, he was effectively denied the satisfaction of his right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supporting the by ... "Extrajudicial Response Complaint Statement Invitation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With Reservation of Rights" that the appellant did not tell her "specifically who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is your personal data detailed and specified exactly and which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

documents contain your personal data. If this includes correspondence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the company, your father's orders as chairman of the board, the movement of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

account from you as well as browsing the company's funds
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

us from your father's account, these documents are not your personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data but data useful for our company... After your use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

what you write in your ex parte declaration for personal data processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they are not stable in character...".
 

 

 

 

The above response does not constitute satisfaction of the access request
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the applicant under no. 12 Law 2472/1997 in accordance with the above,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

moreover, the appellant had no obligation to report to the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"specifically what are his personal data", nor to specify them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"detailed and accurate", nor to indicate "which documents contain personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

given", at the very moment when the company claims the opposite
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that no personal data file was found on his hard drive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

computer.
 

 

 

Finally, it should be noted that the company as data controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is burdened with the obligation to receive the appropriate organizational and technical
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

measures for the security of the data and their protection from accidental or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

wrongful destruction, accidental loss, alteration, prohibited dissemination or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access and any other form of unfair processing under no. 10 par. 3 n.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997. A breach of personal data means
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

breach of security leading to accidental or unlawful destruction, loss,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

transmitted, stored or otherwise processed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(see Opinion OE29 under no. 03/2014 on Personal Data Breach Notification WP 213),
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i.e. the property of the existence of personal data is assumed.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In view of the above, although the existence of data was not proven
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature in order to check any security breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

them, however, it emerged that the company as controller has not received,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14
 

as he owes, the under no. 10 par. 3 of Law 2472/1997 necessary technically and organizationally
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security measures of its information system, through which they are trafficked
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and receive personal data processing as well as the same
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

alleges (although not proven) remote illegal access to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company computer in question and the deletion of stored files
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(cf. APDPH 136/2015) which generally creates a risk of prohibited
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

access and destruction of stored data (cf. Guidelines
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lines of OE 29 WP 250 on Personal data breach notification of 03-10-2017 for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the distinction between a security incident and a privacy breach
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data, p. 7 and footnote 13).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Therefore, the Authority considers that the company violated the provisions of the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 L. 2472/1997 and after taking into account the seriousness of the violation, judges that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must be imposed on the company N. KRITIKO - G. DAIRTZE SA. TRADE
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHARTER the provision in article 21 par. 1 sec. b' of Law 2472/1997 sanction which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to in the ordinance and which is proportionate to its gravity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation and the insult of the applicant as well as to address her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

additionally according to article 19 par. 1 item c' of Law 2472/1997 the recommendations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mentioned in the ordinance.
 

 

 

 

  

 
FOR THOSE REASONS

 

 

 

 
 
1. It imposes on the company N. KRITIKO - G. DAIRTZE S.A. TRADE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAPER fine of three thousand (3,000.00) Euros for non-fulfillment of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its obligation to respond satisfactorily to the appellant in breach of it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to article 12 of Law 2472/1997 his right of access.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2. Addresses to the company N. KRITIKO - G. DAIRTZE S.A. TRADE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHARTER recommendation to take care of the preparation and implementation of internal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation for the correct use and operation of the equipment and the network
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IT and communications by employees
 

 

 

 

 

 

(subjects of
 

 

data), in the content of which should, among others,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

included:
 

I.
 

Acceptable Use Policy for corporate computers (or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other related equipment), the corporate communications network (or other related
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15
 

infrastructure) and corporate e-mail accounts as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the relevant terms, conditions and procedures. in case of prohibition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of the company computer for personal use by them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees, to examine the possibility of granting the use of digital
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

storage space for personal use, in which it will not be allowed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employer access.
   

 

 

 

II.
 

Company computer access and control policy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(or other related equipment) used by employees in which to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

described as a minimum:
 

 

 

the relevant purposes (justifications) of access and control,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

respecting the principle of proportionality,
  

 

 

 

 

the nature and extent of the audit;
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

the procedure, manner and terms of access and control both in case
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

presence, as well as any absence of the employee,
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

the procedural safeguards concerning access and control, in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the assurance and proof of correctness and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its objectivity as well as the presence or absence of the employee,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the way of informing the employee about the audit findings,
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the procedure followed after the completion of the control with the
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on which personal data may be processed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of findings to achieve the purposes of the audit as well as the relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informing the employee,
  

 

 

procedure and conditions, according to which the possibility is provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

avoiding access and control of all stored
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

files, data and information by adopting another, less
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

burdensome, method,
 

 

the previous information of the employees about the possibility of access
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and control over corporate computers (or other related equipment) that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use as well as the cases of exemption from the obligation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information, respecting the principle of proportionality,
  

 

 

 

 

 

the possibility of appeal provided by the current legislation
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

workers in legal protection,
  

 

 

 

16
 

 
i.

 
ii.
 
iii.

 
iv.

 
v.
 
vi.

 
vii.

 
viii.

 
ix.

 

 

3.
 

Addresses to the company N. KRITIKO - G. DAIRTZE S.A. TRADE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAPER recommendation to take care of receiving the appropriate organizational and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of technical security measures of its information system no. 10 par. 3
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Law 2472/1997. the registration that exists is relevant to this issue
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to
 

online
 

place
 

her
 

Principle
 

at
 

position
 

http://www.dpa.gr/pls/portal/url/ITEM/B6F5DCC88FD8EC4AE040A8C07C24572A.
  

 

 

 

 
  

 

 
The Deputy President

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Secretary

 

 

 

 
George Batzalexis

 

                  

 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

17
 

