PRESS RELEASE

 
PRIVACY BREACHES OF INCREASING CONCERN!

 

 
 

 

Since the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into effect on

May 25, 2018 the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

(LfDI) reported significantly more errors when handling data. That's on the one hand

pleasing, because this reporting obligation is one of the central requirements of the GDPR.

On the other hand, behind such a report is usually a negligence or a

organizational fault. The number of reports of such breaches of protection

Personal data according to Art. 33 DS-GVO, colloquially called "data breakdown",

have increased tenfold since May 2018!

 

Hardly a day goes by without the state commissioner reporting data breaches

receives. Almost 1,000 such notifications have been received since the beginning of the year.

Topics range from incidents involving encryption Trojans (ransomware) to

Misdelivery of medical reports. In May 2019, 177 reports were sent, more than ever before

a.

 

The most commonly reported data breaches:

place

type of message

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

 

postal misdelivery

Hacking attacks/Malware/Trojans

Email misdelivery

theft of a data carrier

Sending an e-mail with an open mailing list

Loss of a data medium

Fax misdelivery

With increasing concern, the LfDI observes the high number of data breaches in

medical practices. Above all, encryption Trojans cause problems for those responsible.

It is also a common mistake to send patient reports, prescriptions or X-rays to the

to send to the wrong recipient.

 

 

 

 

Koenigstrasse 10 a

+49 711 7 61 55 41 – 716

https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/

70173 Stuttgart

pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 


The state commissioner, Dr. Stefan Brink: “Especially in the medical field

extremely sensitive and sensitive personal data is processed. Therefore, it is

It is particularly important here that this data is handled carefully and correctly.

Technical and organizational measures such as data backup, encryption, training

and sensitization of the employees are - as in all areas in which with

personal data is handled – an absolute must!” In the event of a data breach

with health data are regularly in addition to the report to the LfDI also those affected

to notify yourself.

 

When do data breaches have to be reported at all?

Not every violation of the protection of personal data leads to a reporting obligation

Art. 33 GDPR. What matters is whether the data breach poses a risk to the

rights and freedoms of natural persons. Explanations on this and in general

Obligation to report with clear practical examples can follow the guidelines of the European

data protection committee.

 

fines

Due to incorrect handling of data, the fine office of the LfDI

Fines of 207,140 euros imposed. The highest fines were two

Fine notices in the amount of €80,000.00 each - in both cases it was about

Data breaches: In one case, a digital publication was damaged due to insufficient

internal control mechanisms inadvertently published health data. In another

case, a company from the financial sector had personal data improperly

disposed of.

 

Further links on the topic

 Frequently asked questions about data protection in medical practices
 Hacker Attacks - Recommended actions after successful attacks
 Notes on handling passwords
 Central contact point for cybercrime for companies and authorities
 Contribution "Discretion in the doctor's practice" in the 34th TB under 7.1, p. 107
 Article "Doctors and DS-GVO (Privacy Policy)" in the 34th TB under 1.8,

pp. 48-53

 Online personal data breach notification form

according to Art. 33 GDPR

 
If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

 

 

