1/5

 File No.: PS/00551/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 7, 2021, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection resolution was issued in sanctioning procedure number
PS/00459/2020, filed against MALAGATROM, S.L.U (hereinafter, the party
claimed). In said resolution, in addition to sanctioning with the imposition of a fine,
required the adoption of the following measure:

“SECOND: REQUEST the entity MALAGATROM, S.L.U. that, within a
month, adopt the necessary measures to adapt its actions to the regulations of
protection of personal data, with the scope expressed in the Foundation of
Law VII of this resolution.”

In the aforementioned Foundation of Law VII, the following was collected:

“Therefore, in this case, it is appropriate to require the respondent so that, within the term
determine, remove all comments from your page on the “Amazon” platform
inserted by the claimant herself in which personal data of her
clients or third parties; and adopt the appropriate measures to avoid similar events
may be repeated in the future, warning everyone in your organization
about the illegality of this conduct.”

SECOND: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure was notified
irrefutably on July 7, 2021 to the claimed party, granting the
period of one month for the adoption of the imposed measures, as stated
accredited in the file.

THIRD: After the expiration of the indicated term without this Agency having
received any written on the measures implemented by the claimed party, it is
proceeded to request them again so that, within ten working days,
prove to this Agency that they have adopted the appropriate corrective measures, in
attention to what was agreed in the aforementioned Resolution.

This requirement was collected by the person in charge on September 1,
2021, as stated in the certificate that is in the file.

FOURTH: The respondent has not sent any response to this Agency that
certifies compliance with the imposed measures.

FIFTH: Against the aforementioned resolution, in which the adoption of measures is required,
There is no ordinary administrative appeal due to the expiration of the deadlines

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not stated his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution.

SIXTH: According to the report collected from the AXESOR tool, the entity
MALAGATROM, S.L.U is an SME (micro-enterprise), established in 2012, and
with a turnover of 243,018 euros in 2014, the last financial year
presented according to this tool.

SEVENTH: On December 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in
Article 83.6 of the RGPD Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD).

EIGHTH: The aforementioned initial agreement was collected by the person in charge on the 14th of
December 2021, as stated in the certificate in the file.

After the period of ten business days granted in the initial agreement for the
presentation of pleadings, the respondent party has not presented pleadings.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP - provision of which the respondent was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise statement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement
beginning of the sanctioning file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the claimed and the sanction that could
prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the respondent has not
formulated allegations to the agreement to initiate the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initial agreement is
considered in this case proposed resolution.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure and the requirement for the
compliance with the measures imposed therein indicated in the background
first to third were notified electronically, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 43 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: The respondent has not sent any response to this Agency that
certifies compliance with the imposed measures.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

THIRD: The notification of the agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning was carried out electronically, being collected by the person in charge with
date December 14, 2021.

FOURTH: The respondent party has not submitted arguments to the agreement to initiate
this sanctioning procedure.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

unfulfilled mandate

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of the
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the claimed party has breached the
resolution of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in relation to the measures
that were imposed on him.

Therefore, the events described in the "Events" section are deemed to constitute
an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 58.2.d) of the
GDPR, which provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

Typification and qualification of the infraction

III

This infringement is typified in article 83.6 of the RGPD, which stipulates the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

“Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority pursuant to article
58, paragraph 2, will be sanctioned in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following behavior:

“m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of
competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

Imputed sanction

Based on the facts set forth, an administrative fine is imposed on the
claimed party, for the violation of article 58.2 of the RGPD typified in article
83.6 of the GDPR.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD. In
Consequently, the sanction to be imposed must be graduated according to the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 of the RGPD.

In the initial assessment it is appreciated that no mitigating factor is applicable and
They have considered, as aggravating, the following facts:

- Art. 83.2 b) RGPD: the intention or negligence in the infringement. It is a
company that is not newly created and should have procedures
established for the fulfillment of the obligations contemplated by the regulations of
data protection, among them, to comply with the resolutions of the authority of
control.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE MALAGATROM, S.L.U, with CIF B93178614, for a
infringement of Article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.6 of the RGPD, a
fine of 1,000.00 euros (THOUSAND euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to MALAGATROM, S.L.U.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-270122

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

