 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Forget-me-not - or rather?
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
publishes guidance on the right to erasure

Munich, June 20, 2022

Bavarian public bodies require the least amount of personal data for
mer; even the register of civil status is archived after 110 years at the latest. With-
However, citizens have felt the need much earlier than the stock of
Thin out information that the state, local authorities and other public bodies
built over them. Erasure rights serve this purpose.

The General Data Protection Regulation, which has been in force since 2018, sees such a data subject in Article 17
right before; the regulation is partly supplemented by national law. the test
The data protection supervisory authorities’ practice of providing information and advice shows that the right to
Deletion raises numerous questions. These can be the various reasons for deletion
as well as the scope of the exceptional circumstances, but also about the relationship
of the right to erasure and the obligation to erasure or the practical implementation of corresponding ones
Request.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection therefore has a guide
"The right to erasure according to the General Data Protection Regulation", which
erical public authorities as well as interested citizens
practical use cases from the public sector a comprehensive explanation of the
relevant specifications.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "I am pleased, after the orientation
ment aid on the right to information now also present a paper on the right to erasure
to be able to len. Does the right of access give data subjects a key to
exercising their rights towards those responsible for data protection,
the right to erasure creates an opportunity for them to ‘dismantle’ an existing
work towards a database. The importance of this right should not be underestimated
- especially when it comes to information that citizens will need in future
administrative decisions could be detrimental.”

The new orientation guide is available at https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the “Da-
Tenant Protection Reform 2018” can be accessed free of charge.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
bound by instructions.

 The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

