Legal Advisory Office  
N/REF: 0080/2021  

The consultation raises the adequacy to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data (hereinafter GDPR) and to Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), of various personal data processing activities carried out by Special Employment Centers in relation to disabled workers who are part of their workforce in general, and in particular, in relation to the information requested from them by the Employment Offices of the Autonomous Communities (hereinafter OECA), related to the maintenance of registration as Special Employment Centers (hereinafter CEE) in the corresponding registers and with the granting of aids and subsidies that are awarded and processed through the aforementioned offices.  

The first aspect refers to the processing activities that CEEs carry out in general. The first is that derived from the hiring of their personnel, for which registration in the employment office of the worker and the accreditation of their status as a person with a disability is required, through a valid Disability Certificate. Another processing activity would be that derived from the provision of Personal and Social Adjustment Services carried out by the Support Units, for which, according to the CEEs, a Technical Advisory Report issued by the competent bodies of the Autonomous Communities is required to assess the degree of disability, among other things.  

The second aspect raised is that the OECA, in their functions of registration in the autonomous register of CEEs and in the functions of supervision and management of aids, request from the CEE both a copy of the disability certificates and a copy of the technical advisory reports for each and every one of the workers.  

Additionally, other relevant documentation is sometimes required, in ordinary files (Justifying and/or Annual Reports) and/or extraordinary files (supervision), detailing the individualized follow-up and actions carried out with each of the persons with disabilities who are recipients of the personal and social adjustment services provided and, where applicable, those provided by the Support Unit.  

This information, according to the consultant, constitutes a processing of special categories of data regarding the action plan, improvement, and support implemented with the person in the different areas of care (personal, social, family, health, or leisure) based on the studies and follow-ups carried out with each worker. They consider that the Certificate and the Advisory Report would be sufficient for the OECA to exercise their supervisory function without the need to expand the data to be provided. Providing this information conditions the maintenance of the qualification and registration of the CEE as such, and, where applicable, access to the subsidies corresponding to these entities.  

Therefore, the first question raised is the adequacy to the principle of minimization, of the communication to the OECA of the extraordinary supervision files, the individualized detail of the follow-up and actions carried out with each of the persons with disabilities who are recipients of the personal and social adjustment services provided and, where applicable, those provided by the Support Unit.  

Secondly, it is raised whether the right not to provide documents that are already in the possession of the administrations applies in accordance with Article 28 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP).  

In this sense, whether the CEE could refuse to provide documentation that is already in the public administrations, such as the technical advisory reports and the disability certificates that are precisely issued by the Autonomous Communities, thus avoiding the responsible party from assuming risks regarding the communication of special categories of data as a consequence of the special employment relationship.  

I  
Article 4.15 of the GDPR defines as "data concerning health," those personal data relating to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the provision of health care services, that reveal information about their health status;  

For its part, Recital (35) states that among the personal data concerning health, all data relating to the health status of the data subject that provide information about their physical or mental health past, present, or future must be included. (…) any number, symbol, or data assigned to a natural person that uniquely identifies them for health purposes; the information obtained from tests or examinations of a part of the body or of a...
Legal Office
substance, including that derived from genetic data and biological samples, and any information related, for example, to an illness, a disability, the risk of suffering from diseases, medical history, clinical treatment, or the physiological or biomedical status of the interested party, regardless of its source, for example, a doctor or other healthcare professional, a hospital, a medical device, or an in vitro diagnostic test. From the above, it must be concluded that the information regarding a worker's disability status is health data, and therefore must be included within the "special categories of data" according to Article 9 of the GDPR. 

However, in the cases presented in the inquiry, not only health data will be subject to processing, but there will also be other data related to the personal and social circumstances of the workers, as derived from the Technical Advisory Opinions, as well as from the action plans, improvement, and support implemented with the person in the different areas of care (personal, social, family, health, or leisure) based on the studies and follow-ups conducted with each worker, which could also include third-party data.

II
The processing of special categories of data must find coverage in Article 9.2 of the GDPR, and once the general prohibition is excepted, one must refer to the provisions of Article 6 of the GDPR to legitimize the processing in question. This was indicated by the Article 29 Working Party (whose functions have been assumed by the European Data Protection Committee) in its opinion "Guidelines on Automated Individual Decision-Making and Profiling for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679," stating that (…) Data controllers may only process special category personal data if one of the conditions set out in Article 9, paragraph 2, is met, as well as a condition from Article 6. (…).

Article 9 of the GDPR establishes, in its paragraph 1, the general prohibition on the processing of those data (…) that reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person, data related to health, or data related to the sexual life or sexual orientation of a natural person (…).

In its paragraph 2, the exceptions that lift the prohibition are collected, indicating that it will not apply in the following cases:
(…) a) the interested party has given explicit consent for the processing of such personal data for one or more specified purposes, except when Union or Member State law provides that the prohibition mentioned in paragraph 1 cannot be lifted by the interested party; 
b) the processing is necessary for compliance with obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or the interested party in the field of labor law and social security and protection, to the extent authorized by Union law of the Member States or a collective agreement under the law of the Member States that establishes adequate guarantees for the respect of fundamental rights and the interests of the interested party; 
(…)
e) the processing relates to personal data that the interested party has made manifestly public; 
f) the processing is necessary for the formulation, exercise, or defense of claims or when courts act in the exercise of their judicial function; 
(…)
h) the processing is necessary for purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, assessment of the worker's capacity, medical diagnosis, provision of health or social care or treatment, or management of health and social care systems and services, based on Union law or Member State law or under a contract with a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the conditions and guarantees set out in paragraph 3; 
. (…)

For its part, Article 6 of the GDPR establishes the cases that allow the processing of data to be considered lawful, which states the following:
1. Processing shall be lawful only if at least one of the following conditions is met: 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
4
Legal Office
a) the data subject has given their consent for the processing of their personal data for one or more specific purposes;  
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the data subject is a party or for the application at their request of pre-contractual measures;  
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject;  
(…)  
e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller;  
(…)  
As has been demonstrated, Articles 6 and 9 of the GDPR determine the circumstances that allow for the processing of personal data, in general, and specifically regarding special categories of data, respectively.  
The GDPR also establishes in its recitals 41 and 45 the following:  
(41) When this Regulation refers to a legal basis or a legislative measure, this does not necessarily require a legislative act adopted by a parliament, without prejudice to the requirements of conformity with the constitutional order of the Member State in question. However, such legal basis or legislative measure must be clear and precise, and its application foreseeable for its addressees, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter, "Court of Justice") and the European Court of Human Rights.  
(45) When carried out in compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the data controller, or if necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority, the processing must have a basis in Union or Member State law. This Regulation does not require that each individual processing operation be governed by a specific rule. A rule may be sufficient as a basis for several data processing operations based on a legal obligation applicable to the data controller, or if the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority. The purpose of the processing must also be determined under Union or Member State law. Furthermore, such a rule could specify the general conditions of this Regulation under which the lawfulness of the processing of personal data is governed, establish specifications for determining the data controller, the type of personal data subject to processing, the affected data subjects, the entities to which personal data may be communicated, the limitations of purpose, the retention period of the data, and other measures to ensure lawful and fair processing. It must also be determined under Union or Member State law whether the data controller carrying out a task in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority must be a public authority or another natural or legal person under public law, or, when carried out in the public interest, including health-related purposes such as public health, social protection, and the management of health services, under private law, such as a professional association.  
In relation to the above, Article 8 of the LOPDGDD under the heading "Processing of data by legal obligation, public interest, or exercise of public authority" establishes the following:  
1. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on compliance with a legal obligation enforceable against the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when a rule of European Union law or a rule with the rank of law provides for it, which may determine the general conditions of processing and the types of data subject to it as well as the transfers that may occur as a result of compliance with the legal obligation. Such a rule may also impose special conditions on the processing, such as the adoption of additional security measures or others established in Chapter IV of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.  
2. The processing of personal data may only be considered based on compliance with a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority conferred on the controller, in the terms provided in Article 6.1.e) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, when it derives from a competence attributed by a rule with the rank of law.  
III  
That said, it is necessary to address the analysis of the rules that provide for the processing of data raised by the inquiry.  
Regarding the processing of personal data, including special categories of data, carried out by Special Employment Centers, the following should be noted:  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
6
Legal Office
The Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 of November 29, Consolidated Text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion, establishes in its Article 43, under the heading "Special Employment Centers for the Labor Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities," the following:
1. Special employment centers are those whose main objective is to carry out a productive activity of goods or services, regularly participating in market operations, and aim to ensure paid employment for persons with disabilities; at the same time, they serve as a means of including the greatest number of these individuals in the ordinary employment system. Likewise, special employment centers must provide, through support units, the personal and social adjustment services required by workers with disabilities, according to their circumstances and as determined by regulation.
2. The workforce of special employment centers shall consist of the largest number of workers with disabilities that the nature of the productive process allows and, in any case, at least 70% of it. For these purposes, personnel without disabilities dedicated to providing personal and social adjustment services will not be considered.
Personal and social adjustment services are understood to be those that help overcome barriers, obstacles, or difficulties that workers with disabilities in special employment centers face in the process of integrating into a job, as well as in their retention and progression in the same. Likewise, those aimed at social, cultural, and sports inclusion will also be included.
(…)
Regarding the requirements and conditions that must be met for the creation of Special Employment Centers, Article 45 establishes under the title "Creation of Special Employment Centers for the Labor Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities," the following:
1. Special employment centers may be created by both public and private entities as well as by companies, always subject to the legal, regulatory, and conventional norms that govern working conditions.
2. Public administrations, within the scope of their competencies and through the study of sectoral needs, will promote the creation and implementation of special employment centers, either directly or in collaboration with other organizations or entities, while also encouraging the creation of jobs for persons with disabilities by adopting the necessary measures to achieve such purposes. They will also monitor, periodically and rigorously, that persons with disabilities are employed under adequate working conditions.
On its part, Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4, which approves the Regulation of Special Employment Centers defined in Article 42 of Law 13/1982, of April 7, on the Social Integration of the Disabled, establishes in its Article 7 the following:
The creation of Special Employment Centers will require their qualification and registration in the Registry of Centers that the Central Administration, or, where appropriate, the Autonomous Administrations, will create within their scope of competencies. For qualification and registration to take place, the following requirements must be met:
(…)
3. Their workforce must be constituted by disabled workers in accordance with what is indicated in Article 1, with a written employment contract signed with each of them, in accordance with current regulations.
4. The provision of having technical and support staff in possession of the appropriate professional qualifications that the activity of the Center requires.
(…)
On its part, Royal Decree 1368/1985, of July 17, which regulates the special employment relationship of disabled persons working in Special Employment Centers, establishes in its Article 4 under the heading "Access to Employment," the following:
One. – Disabled persons wishing to access employment in a Special Employment Center must register with the corresponding Employment Offices. These Offices will classify protected job seekers based on the type and degree of disability they are affected by and the degree of work capacity recognized by the Multidisciplinary Teams.
Two. – The holders of Special Employment Centers must request from the corresponding Employment Office the disabled workers they intend to employ, detailing in depth the c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
8
Legal Office
the job offers made for the positions to be filled, the technical characteristics of the same, and the personal and/or professional circumstances that the workers must meet. Upon receiving the offers, the Employment Office will request from the Multidisciplinary Teams a report on the workers who, being registered as job seekers, fit the characteristics of the job position. The Employment Office will provide the Companies with the workers who are fit to perform the job in question. 

According to the above, the first conclusions derived from the cited regulations are that the CEE (Centros Especiales de Empleo) carry out a mission of public interest, such as the labor integration of people with disabilities (their purpose is to ensure paid employment for people with disabilities; at the same time, they are a means of including the largest number of these individuals in the ordinary employment system) and to carry out this task, it is mandatory that they have a minimum number of people with disabilities employed and therefore handle certain personal data of the affected individuals, such as that derived from their condition of disability, in addition to the other personal identification data and those necessary for the development of the special employment relationship.

IV
Now, regarding the processing of personal data referred to the Technical Advisory Report (hereinafter DTF), the consulting party states that they process it with the prior consent of the affected individual as it is necessary for the development of the Personal and Social Adjustment Services provided through the Support Units. 

Regarding the DTF and its relationship with data protection regulations, it is appropriate to first cite Report 431/2015, which addressed a query regarding whether it is appropriate under the LOPD (Organic Law on Data Protection) for Employment Offices or those companies intending to hire people with disabilities to request the delivery of the Technical Advisory Report for the purpose of certifying their condition of disability, concluding that 
“for the accreditation of disability for labor purposes and the assessment of the worker's capabilities or the needs for job adaptation, the processing of the data contained in the Technical Advisory Report may be excessive in relation to the scope and purposes that justify its collection and processing and, therefore, contrary to the principle of proportionality, as provided in Article 4.1 of Organic Law 15/1999.”

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
9

                                                           Legal Office
That is to say, it was considered excessive and contrary to the principle of proportionality for both the Employment Offices and companies intending to hire people with disabilities to be aware of the DTF. 

In the case now presented, a distinction is established regarding that situation; now the knowledge of the DTF is limited to the Support Units that provide Personal and Social Adjustment Services of the CEE. 

Having said the above, references to the DTF, and specifically what its content is and what purpose it serves, can be found in various legal bodies and resolutions. 

First, in Article 12.3 a) of RDL 1/2013, which states the following:
3. The functions of the multidisciplinary teams for the qualification and recognition of the degree of disability are:
a) To issue a standardized technical report on deficiencies, limitations in performing activities, and barriers to social participation, collecting the capacities and skills for which the person needs support. 

In the context of the General State Administration, it is necessary to mention the Order of November 2, 2000, which determines the composition, organization, and functions of the Assessment and Guidance Teams dependent on the Institute of Migrations and Social Services and develops the procedure for assessing the degree of disability within the scope of the General State Administration, establishing in its Fourth Article – Technical Advisory Reports, the following:
1. The Technical Advisory Reports issued by the EVO (Equipos de Valoración y Orientación) will be formulated according to standardized models and must necessarily include the following elements:
a) Deficiencies in the physical and/or psychological state of the interested party.
b) Specification of the determining causes of the same.
c) Specification of the degree of disability derived from the recorded deficiencies.
d) Assessment of their personal situation and their socio-family environment (complementary social factors).
e) Qualification of the degree of disability, assessing the different aspects referred to in points a), b), and d), in accordance with the contents of the scale that appears as Annex I in Article 2 of Royal Decree 1971/1999, of December 23. 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
10
Legal Office
(…)
3. The technical-legal opinion must contain, where applicable, the scores from the scales to determine the need for assistance from another person and the existence of mobility difficulties in using public collective transport.
And in Article Five regarding the “Procedure for the recognition of the degree of disability,” it is established that the DTF is issued once the procedure resulting from the assessments, tests, medical and psychological reports, complementary examinations, etc., has been instructed, and serves as a proposal for the competent authority to issue a resolution (The Provincial Directors of the Institute of Migrations and Social Services, based on the technical-legal opinions, must issue an express resolution and notify it in the procedure initiated for the recognition, declaration, and qualification of the degree of disability, as well as regarding the score obtained in the scales to determine the need for assistance from another person or mobility difficulties, if applicable).
Furthermore, reference must be made to Royal Decree 1971/1999, of December 23, on the procedure for the recognition, declaration, and qualification of the degree of disability, which applies not only to the General State Administration but also to the administrations of the Autonomous Communities, without prejudice to the regulatory development that these may carry out in the exercise of their transferred competencies, which in its Article 8 under the heading “Competent technical bodies for the issuance of technical-legal opinions” establishes the following:
h. The technical-legal opinions for the recognition of degree will be issued by the competent technical bodies dependent on the corresponding bodies of the Autonomous Communities to which the functions in the matter of qualification of the degree of disability and impairment have been transferred and by the assessment and orientation teams of the Institute of Migrations and Social Services within their area of competence.
And in its Article 9 under the heading “Assessment and qualification of the degree of disability” it indicates that:
3. The competent technical body will issue a proposal opinion that must necessarily contain the diagnosis, type, and degree of the disability and, where applicable, the scores from the scales to determine the need for assistance from another person and the existence of mobility difficulties in using public collective transport.
For its part, it is worth citing as an example of the regulation of the Autonomous Communities, Order 710/2000, of May 8, from the Ministry of Social Services of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, which establishes the procedure for action for the application and development of Royal Decree 1971/1999, on Recognition, Declaration, and Qualification of the Degree of Disability, in its Article 4 “Technical-legal opinions” establishes that they must necessarily include the following elements:
a) Deficiencies in the physical and/or psychological state of the interested party.
b) Specification of the determining causes of the same.
c) Specification of the degree of disability derived from the recorded deficiencies.
d) Assessment of the personal situation and their socio-family environment (complementary social factors).
e) Qualification of the degree of disability, assessing the different aspects referred to in the previous points.
In accordance with the above, the DTC contains information of very diverse nature about the affected individual (medical, psychological, and social circumstances), among which is information that can be classified as health data, and therefore considered as special categories of data, and serves the purpose of proposing the declaration and qualification of the disability situation of the person in the administrative procedure established for this purpose.
Taking into account the content of the DTF that is deduced from the cited norms, the analysis of the Personal and Social Adjustment Services provided through the Support Units is appropriate.
First, reference must be made to the already mentioned Article 43 of RDL 1/2013, which stipulates that special employment centers must provide, through support units, the personal and social adjustment services required by workers with disabilities, according to their circumstances and as determined by regulation.
For its part, Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4, which approves the Regulation of Special Employment Centers defined in Article 42 of Law 13/1982, of April 7, on Social Integration of the Disabled, provides in its Article 3 that Personal and social adjustment services shall be understood as those of rehabilitation, therapeutic, and integration.
Legal Office
social, cultural, and sports activities that provide the disabled worker of the
Special Employment Center with greater personal rehabilitation and better
adaptation in their social relationships.
Royal Decree 469/2006, of April 21, which regulates the support units for
professional activity within the framework of personal and social adjustment
services of Special Employment Centers, establishes in its article 1.2 the
following:
2. Support Units for Professional Activity are understood to be
multidisciplinary teams framed within the Personal and Social Adjustment
Services of Special Employment Centers, which, through the development of
the functions and duties provided for in article 2 of this royal decree, allow
to help overcome the barriers, obstacles, or difficulties that workers with
disabilities in these Centers face in the process of integrating into a job,
as well as their permanence and progression in it.
Article 2 continues under the heading "Functions of the Support Units for
Professional Activity," in the following terms:
The personnel integrated into the Support Units for Professional Activity
defined in the previous article will perform the following functions:
a) Detect and determine, after assessing the person's capabilities and
analyzing the job position, the support needs for the disabled worker to
develop their professional activity.
b) Establish the necessary relationships with the family and social
environment of workers with disabilities, so that it serves as a support
and encouragement tool for the worker in their integration into a job and
stability in it.
(…)
d) Establish individualized supports for each worker in the job position.
e) Promote and enhance the autonomy and independence of workers with
disabilities, primarily in their job position.
f) Facilitate the integration of new workers into the Special Employment
Center by establishing the appropriate supports for that purpose.
g) Assist the worker of the Special Employment Center in the process of
integrating into Labor Enclaves and the ordinary labor market.
h) Detect and intervene in potential processes of developmental
deterioration of workers with disabilities in order to prevent and mitigate
their effects.
And in article 6 under the heading Composition of the Support Units for
Professional Activity, the ratio of necessary professionals is established
based on the number of workers.
Regarding these professionals, it is necessary to recall what was indicated
earlier in article 7.4 of Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4, which
approves the Regulation of Special Employment Centers, which requires
the provision of having technical and support staff with the appropriate
professional qualifications that the Center's activity requires.
Having said that, and in relation to whether the Special Employment Centers,
through the Support Units and for the provision of Personal and Social
Adjustment Services, can access the DTF, it is necessary to refer to what is
provided in the GDPR regarding the principles of purpose limitation and
data minimization.
Article 5.1 of the GDPR states that personal data shall be:
b) collected for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes, and shall not
be further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes; (…)
(“purpose limitation”);
c) adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed (“data minimization”);
Furthermore, it is necessary to take into account what is indicated in the
consultation raised by the Special Employment Centers, regarding their access
to the DTF with the prior consent of the affected party.
In this sense, the situation provided for in article 9.2 a) of the GDPR and
article 6.1 a) of the GDPR could be applicable.
However, consent as configured in the GDPR carries certain guarantees such
as freedom in its provision, and in this regard, recitals 42 and 43 propose
situations in which consent may not be given freely. From the consultation, it
is unknown what would happen if the affected party does not give consent
for the processing of the DTF by the Special Employment Centers, that is,
whether they would cease to be a recipient of the Services provided by the
Support Unit or if they would suffer any detriment or burden in their
situation. Therefore, it cannot be considered that
Legal Cabinet
the processing of the DTF by the CEE can be carried out on the basis of
free consent.
This issue becomes particularly relevant when analyzing the
compatibility of purposes of different data processing activities. In this case, let us not forget that the DTF serves the purpose of proposing a specific
resolution in the administrative procedure for granting the degree of
disability, and what the CEE now intends to do is use it because, according to its
statements, it is necessary for the provision of personal and social adjustment services.
Well, Article 6.4 of the GDPR indicates that:
4. When the processing for a purpose other than that for which the personal data
was collected is not based on the consent of the data subject or on Union or Member State law that constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard the objectives set out in Article 23, paragraph 1, the data controller, in order to determine whether the processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which the personal data was initially collected, shall take into account, among other things:
a) any relationship between the purposes for which the personal data was collected and the purposes of the intended further processing;
b) the context in which the personal data was collected, in particular regarding the relationship between the data subjects and the data controller;
c) the nature of the personal data, in particular when special categories of personal data are processed, in accordance with Article 9, or personal data relating to criminal convictions and offenses, in accordance with Article 10;
d) the possible consequences for the data subjects of the intended further processing;
e) the existence of appropriate safeguards, which may include encryption or pseudonymization.
Regarding the sections outlined in letters a) and b), it should be noted that the
processing of the data of the data subject is carried out within the framework of an
administrative procedure for the recognition of disability, where, after conducting tests and interviews by the Assessment and Guidance Team, the DTF is issued, which serves as a proposal for the final resolution of the procedure.
It is a procedure where the data subject has the initiative to initiate it on their own accord, and where the disposition of the data comes from the data subject and, as a result of the administrative activity, obtains the corresponding certificate. And no further processing of their data is foreseen - the DTF - since the purpose is fulfilled with the resolution that concludes the procedure. Therefore, as will be analyzed later, no direct negative consequences are anticipated a priori regarding a possible subsequent use of certain information since the relationship with the data subject ends with the conclusion of the procedure, a circumstance that, as we will see, does not occur in the context of the CEE.
Furthermore, the participants in the procedure have, in addition to the duty to process personal data in accordance with the principle of confidentiality (Article 5.1 f) GDPR), those arising from their professional status, such as public officials and healthcare professionals, which are subject to professional secrecy.
On the contrary, in the case of the processing that the CEE may carry out regarding the DTF, it should be noted that it is they who request it from the potential worker based on consent regarding which doubts arise about the freedom of its provision, since we must not forget that the relationship between the potential worker and the company is not established on equal terms, nor if the refusal to provide it may have unfavorable consequences for the data subject.
Likewise, the specific recipients of the information do not have the same legal status concerning obligations regarding the processing of information, and the processing of information that may subsequently occur in the company can have different consequences than those that the administration would eventually provide: in one case, the relationship with the controller is maintained over time, and therefore, with a misuse of the information, it can have negative consequences, while in the other, the relationship with the controller ends with the conclusion of the procedure.
In this regard, Opinion 3/2013 of the Article 29 Working Party - currently replaced by the European Data Protection Committee - on Purpose Limitation indicates that:
The assessment of the nature of this relationship must also include an investigation into the power balance between the data subject and the data controller. In particular, it should be noted if
Legal Office
The interested parties, or any third party on their behalf, were required to provide the data in accordance with the law. Alternatively, the collection could have been based on a contractual relationship. In this case, the nature of the contract and the balance of power between the interested party and the data controller must be examined (for example, the ease with which the interested party can terminate the contract and seek an alternative service provider). If the subsequent processing was based on consent, it must be assessed to what extent consent was given freely and the accuracy of its terms. In general, the assessment of compatibility should be stricter if the interested party does not enjoy sufficient freedom of choice, if the conditions of consent are not specific, or if the subsequent use is considered objectionable.

The consultant claims that the provision of the DTF is necessary for the provision of personal and social adjustment services, but does not specify the reason, that is, the purpose is not explained with sufficient specificity and clarity, nor is it made clear what information is made available to the data subject, which is very important in relation to predictability regarding the processing. As indicated in Opinion 3/2013:
If a purpose is sufficiently specific and clear, citizens will know what to expect: the way in which the data is processed will be predictable. This provides legal certainty to the interested parties, as well as to those who process personal data on behalf of the data controller.

Predictability is also relevant when assessing the compatibility of subsequent processing activities. In general, subsequent processing cannot be considered predictable if it is not sufficiently related to the initial purpose and does not meet the reasonable expectations of the interested parties at the time of collection, based on the context of the collection.
(…)
The requirement that purposes be specified "explicitly" contributes to transparency and predictability. It allows for an unequivocal identification of the limits of how data controllers may use the personal data collected, in order to protect the interested parties. It helps all those who process data on behalf of the data controller, as well as the interested parties, data protection authorities, and other stakeholders, to have a common understanding of how the data may be used. This, in turn, reduces the risk that the expectations of the interested parties differ from the expectations of the data controller.

Therefore, different relationships with different controllers and the shortcomings in terms of transparency regarding the purpose of the new processing mean that the expectation of privacy or reasonable foreseeability regarding the type of processing represented to the affected party is not the same in one case as in another.

Regarding sections c) and d), it turns out that the DTF contains special categories of data, which may go beyond the specific degree of disability, as it may collect a range of specific health pathologies and other social and personal circumstances that, in certain contexts outside the established administrative procedure for this purpose, may lead to situations of discrimination and/or victimization. In this sense, it could collect diseases such as HIV or schizophrenia that, in principle, may not affect the development of the job position but that in certain circumstances have a stigmatizing effect on the interested party, and that, if the purpose of the CEE is the full integration of workers with disabilities into the labor and social environment, could have the opposite effect.

In Opinion 3/2013 it is indicated that (…) In general, the more sensitive the information, the more restricted the scope of application for compatible use would be. (…) Once again, in general, the more negative or uncertain the impact of subsequent processing, the less likely it is to be considered a compatible use. The availability of alternative methods to achieve the objectives pursued by the data controller, with a less negative impact on the interested party in this context, should undoubtedly be taken into account as a relevant consideration.

And finally, regarding section e), the adequate guarantees regarding security and pseudonymization that the CEE can implement are unknown, and if implemented, what information the interested party would receive. All this in relation to the reasonable expectations of the interested party based on their relationship with the controller (Recital 50 GDPR).

On the other hand, regarding the minimization and necessity of processing, it should be noted that as established by the legal regime of the CEEs, they must have a multidisciplinary team with a purpose, and among whose functions the provisions of Article 2 of the Royal Decree must be taken into account.
Legal Office
469/2006, of April 21, which allow for an evaluation of the worker to precisely detect the adaptation needs of the interested party to the job in question. Indeed, the functions outlined in the aforementioned article are particularly relevant, which, among others, indicate the following: 
 (…) Detect and determine, prior to assessing the person's capabilities and analyzing the job position, the support and encouragement needs of the worker (…)
(…) Detect and intervene in the possible processes of developmental deterioration of workers with disabilities in order to prevent and mitigate their effects (…)
That is to say, they have an evaluative function through which they will obtain information more aligned with their purpose than what can be gathered from a DTF, which serves another purpose and contains information that has little or nothing to do with personal and social adjustment services. 
It should also be added that the DTF is issued in an environment and by individuals outside the company, whereas the Support Unit is integrated within it and therefore is aware of the specific job positions that may be subject to adjustment. Thus, this option, in addition to being more respectful of the affected individual's privacy, will also yield more effective results if the goal is to understand the worker and see how or in what way a specific position needs to be adapted.
Therefore, it is more appropriate and effective that, as far as possible, these units evaluate and determine the specific needs of the worker in relation to the evaluations they themselves carry out in accordance with the functions established in the aforementioned Article 2, as they will be more suitable and effective than the conclusions drawn from a DTF that serves another purpose and which, by default or excess, may be less suitable for objectifying the real and specific needs on which the Personal and Social Adjustment Services for each worker must be based.
Without prejudice to the fact that the Certificate of Capabilities or Aptitude Report for employment purposes (Order SSI/1474/2014, of July 28) could also be used for this purpose – which has been implemented in some Autonomous Communities and in others similar formulas have been adopted – since, unlike the DTF, it specifically indicates the capabilities or work skills that the applicant still possesses, the degree of impact it may have (mild, moderate, or severe) on the performance of certain tasks, as well as the work contraindications. That is to say, the occupations, job positions, or functions that the worker can perform and the necessary supports for this, regardless of the origin of their disability, as well as the degree of disability that has been recognized.
Therefore, regarding the minimization and necessity of treatment, there are less harmful alternatives for the protection of workers' data than providing the DTF to the CEE, as they have multidisciplinary teams that can carry out the pertinent evaluation and that ultimately serve the provision of Personal and Social Adjustment Services, without prejudice to using other elements that may serve more effectively for this purpose, such as the Certificate of Capabilities or Aptitude Report for employment purposes or other analogous elements depending on the Autonomous Community in question.
Consequently, it would be contrary to the principle of purpose limitation and minimization for the CEE to have access to the content of the Technical Advisory Report issued within the administrative procedure for determining and granting the degree of disability, for the provision of Personal and Social Adjustment Services, as there are other less harmful alternatives for the right to data protection.

V
Aside from the DTF, the CEE in the development of their activity will handle special categories of data as provided in Article 9 of the GDPR.  
Indeed, the processing of personal data carried out by the CEE – including special categories of data – such as the disability certificate and those issued by the Support Units for the provision of Personal and Social Adjustment Services are necessary for them to carry out their functions and duties, which must be considered of public interest by the very nature of the activity carried out by Special Employment Centers, and by the different regulations governing their actions, which stem from RDL 1/2013 of November 29.
Regarding the public interest referred to the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities that RDL 1/2013, of November 29, encompasses, along with the obligations for the different recipients of the regulation, the Report 117/2019 indicated:
(…) It should be added that the specific treatment derived from the LCSP and RDL 1/2013 refers to a measure of protection of 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
20
Legal Office
the social integration of persons with disabilities and, therefore, constitutes a mission of general public interest. This is evident from the very Exposition of Motives of Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, of November 29, (…) it is necessary that the regulatory framework and public actions regarding disability intervene in social organization and in its material or relational expressions that, with their segregating structures and actions, postpone or separate persons with disabilities from ordinary social life, all with the ultimate goal that they can participate, as active subjects holding rights, in a life under equal conditions as the rest of the citizens. (…) 
And in the international sphere, it is evident from the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted on December 13, 2006, by the United Nations General Assembly (UN), ratified by Spain on December 3, 2007, and which entered into force on May 3, 2008, that it represents the enshrinement of the rights-based approach for persons with disabilities, in such a way that it considers persons with disabilities as subjects holding rights and public authorities are obliged to ensure that the exercise of those rights is full and effective.
There is no doubt that the obligation analyzed in favor of persons with disabilities in the field of contracting has a general interest (…)
Considering the above, the processing of special categories of data carried out by the CEE would find its legitimacy in Article 9.2 of the GDPR paragraphs b) and h).
That is to say, on one hand, the processing is necessary for the fulfillment of obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or the data subject in the field of labor law and social security and protection; in this aspect, it should be noted that certain processing will be mandatory for the CEE as they have that condition, and in turn, the services and benefits they provide to workers with disabilities, from the perspective of the data subject, represent the materialization of their rights as stated in the aforementioned RDL 1/2013.
And, on the other hand, the processing is necessary for the purposes of providing assistance or treatment of a health or social nature, or managing health and social assistance systems and services, based on Union Law or the laws of the Member States; in this aspect, it should be noted that the functions and duties performed by the CEE are part of the social assistance systems and services in accordance with the current legal framework.
Once the prohibition on processing special categories of data is lifted, the provisions set forth in Article 6.1 of the GDPR paragraphs b) would apply, to the extent that the personal data of workers - including disability data - are necessary for the execution of the special employment relationship that binds the CEE with the affected individual, paragraph e) since they carry out a mission of undeniable public interest, such as the labor integration of persons with disabilities, and paragraph c), since to carry out their mission and be considered as such, the CEE are obliged to configure their workforce with a certain number of persons with disabilities, which implies the obligation to process disability data.
Therefore, in relation to the above, regarding compliance with the requirements of Article 8 of the LOPDGDD transcribed above, the norm with the rank of law that determines the obligation of processing and attributes the functions - competences - referred to a mission of public interest, can be found in RDL 1/2013 of November, Consolidated Text of the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and their Social Inclusion and the indicated development regulations.
VI
Next, the analysis regarding the processing carried out by the Autonomous Communities (CCAA) either by themselves or through the OECA will proceed, regarding which two general situations can be distinguished: the one related to the registration of the affected individuals as job seekers and the assessment of the degree of disability, and on the other hand, the one related to the oversight of the CEE and the maintenance of the established registry for that purpose and ultimately the processing and granting of aid and subsidies.
The Organic Law 9/1992, of December 23, on the transfer of powers to Autonomous Communities, in its Articles 4 and 16 attributes to the CCAA execution competencies over benefits and social services of the General Social Security System, and Royal Decree 1971/1999, of December 23, on the procedure for the recognition, declaration, and qualification of the degree of disability, does the same in its Articles 6 and 7.
Likewise, Royal Legislative Decree 3/2015, of October 23, which approves the consolidated text of the Employment Law, in its Article 3 attributes
Legal Office
to the Autonomous Communities the development of employment policy, the promotion of employment, and the execution of the programs and measures that have been transferred to them, and expressly Articles 19 and following regulate the public employment services of the autonomous communities. 
Therefore, regarding the registration of those affected as job seekers and the assessment of the degree of disability, the Autonomous Communities and their OECA would find the legitimacy for the processing of the data of those affected, in the cases provided for in section 2 letters b) and h) of Article 9 of the GDPR, and secondly in Article 6.1 letters e) and c) of the GDPR. 
However, regarding the information requested by the OECA, both for the maintenance of the registration of the CEE and for the specific granting of aids and subsidies, it is necessary to carry out the following analysis taking into account the aforementioned principles of purpose limitation and data minimization, as set forth in Article 5 of the GDPR in its sections b) and c).  
On the qualification and registration in the CEE Registry, which is the responsibility of the Autonomous Communities through the OECA, Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4, which approves the Regulation of Special Employment Centers defined in Article 42 of Law 13/1982, of April 7, on Social Integration of the Disabled, establishes the following: 
Article 7. 
The creation of Special Employment Centers will require their qualification and registration in the Registry of Centers that the Central Administration, or, where appropriate, the Autonomous Administrations, will create within their scope of competencies. In order for the qualification and registration to take place, the following requirements must be met: 
1. Accreditation of the identity of the owner. 
2. Justification through the appropriate economic study of the possibilities of viability and sustainability of the Center, in order to fulfill its purposes. 
3. The staff must be composed of disabled workers as indicated in Article 1, with a written employment contract signed with each of them, in accordance with current regulations. 
4. The forecast of having technical and support staff in the workforce holding the appropriate professional qualifications that the activity of the Center requires. 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid 
23

                                                           Legal Office
Regarding the specific regional regulation, the following regulations can be cited as examples: 
The regulation of the Community of Madrid, through Decree 96/1997, of July 31, which creates the Registry of Special Employment Centers of the Community of Madrid, determines in its Article 2 under the heading "Requirements for obtaining qualification as a Special Employment Center" the following: 
Those work centers may be qualified as Special Employment Centers for which the following circumstances are accredited: 
1. Being under the ownership of natural persons, legal entities, communities of goods, or any other entities, public or private, that, in accordance with current provisions, have legal capacity and capacity to act to hire disabled workers capable of providing labor services in Special Employment Centers. 
2. Having possibilities of viability and sustainability of the Center, in order to fulfill its purposes, justified by the relevant economic study. 
3. The entire workforce must be composed of disabled workers individually contracted by written contract, in accordance with applicable regulations, without prejudice to the positions in the workforce of non-disabled personnel essential for the development of the activity. 
4. Anticipating the integration into the workforce of technical and support staff with the appropriate professional qualifications that the activity of the Center demands. 
And on the website of the aforementioned autonomous community, a list of the documents to be submitted is established, among which are the disability certificates of the active disabled workers. 
For its part, the Board of Communities of Castilla-La Mancha, on the corresponding website, refers to the state regulatory framework (RDL 1/2013, of November 29) and in the established form for this purpose, among the documentation regarding the workers, the submission of the disability certificates of the active disabled workers is provided. 
1https://tramita.comunidad.madrid/inscripciones-registro/registro-cee-comunidad-madrid
 
  
2https://www.jccm.es/tramitesygestiones/calificacion-e-inscripcion-en-el-registro-de-centros-
 
 
speciales-de-empleo-como 
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid 
24
Legal Office
Certificates of disability and fitness certificates for workers with disabilities that are employed, issued by the competent authorities.  
Furthermore, the Valencian Community, through Decree 227/2018, of December 14, of the Consell, which regulates the qualification and registration of special employment centers in the Register of special employment centers of the Comunitat Valenciana, in its Article 6 referring to the “Documentation for the qualification and registration in the Register of CEE of the Comunitat Valenciana of a new entity as CEE” requires for registration, among other things, the following documentation:  
4. If at the time of submitting the application the workforce to be hired is already known, the following must be attached: documentation proving the disability of the personnel with functional diversity or disability, curriculum vitae of the management personnel, if known, and/or curriculum vitae of the personnel comprising the support units for professional activity.  
Therefore, and in accordance with the state and regional regulations that have been exemplified, it follows that, with the Certificate of degree of disability, it would be sufficient to meet the requirements for registration in the corresponding regional register as a Special Employment Center.  
Consequently, requiring additional information solely for the purpose of registration in the established register, by the OECA, such as that described in the inquiry regarding the individualized detail of the follow-up with each of the persons with disabilities who are recipients of the personal and social adjustment services, or even the DTF, and to the extent that the specific regulations do not require it, would be excessive and contrary to the principle of data minimization, without prejudice to other powers exercised by the competent administration, such as inspection or actions derived from the promotion activity, such as the control of the requirements to be recipients of aid or subsidies and, where applicable, the execution of the promoted activity.  
VII  
However, regarding the information that the OECA intends to access in its management and granting of aid and subsidies to the CEE, the following must be indicated:  
Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4, which approves the Regulation of Special Employment Centers, states in its Article 11 the following:  
c. Public Administrations may grant subsidies aimed at balancing the budget of special employment centers when such Centers lack profit motive, are declared of public utility and indispensability, and the social function of the same justifies the need to be financed with complementary means to those indicated in the previous article.  
(...)  
Social indispensability must be understood as the verification of the difficulty that workers with disabilities may have, due to their characteristics of type and degree of disability, their age, their training and professional qualification, and the permanent need to be users of personal and social adjustment services, to find new employment in another special employment center or in the ordinary company. This verification will be carried out based on these parameters or any other determined by the competent public employment service:  
a) Ratio of workers with disabilities and with special difficulties who make up the workforce of persons with disabilities.  
b) Ratio of workers with disabilities who make up the contracted workforce with an indefinite modality.  
c) Personal and social adjustment services provided by the special employment center.  
From the indicated provision, it can be concluded that for the processing and, where applicable, the granting of subsidies, the disability certificate may not be sufficient, as the parameters regarding social indispensability will depend on the specific subsidy in question and what the competent public employment service determines.  
Article 13 continues by indicating that CEE receiving subsidies or aid or any type of economic compensation must submit an annual report to the corresponding body - Ministry of Labor or CCAA - and that, in any case, they will carry out not only the monitoring of the aid but also the auditing of the overall operation of the Center.  
It should be emphasized the relevance of this Article 13, and indicate that it is inherent to the effective control that public authorities must carry out as grantors of a subsidy and that it falls within the power of promotion.  
c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es  
28001 Madrid  
26
Legal Office
In this regard, it should be noted, as highlighted by the jurisprudence (such as the rulings of the Supreme Court dated September 21, 1995, November 28, 1997, and January 12, 1998), that the subsidy is configured as one of the measures employed by the Administration to promote the activity of individuals towards purposes of general interest. This concept encompasses all kinds of favoring an action through the granting of economic incentives, whether these represent a loss of income for the Administration through exemptions and tax deductions, or an immediate disbursement of public funds intended for such promotion or encouragement.

Furthermore, the subsidy is characterized as a legal transaction of a modal nature or subject to condition, such that the delivery of public aid is not definitive, as it is not perfected until the Administration verifies that the obligations imposed in the granting of the subsidy have been fulfilled. This verification must be thorough due to the public nature of the money delivered to the individual.

In this sense, the Supreme Court (ruling of October 2, 1992, among others) has configured the legal nature of the subsidy as a modal donation ad causam futurum, whereby a public body assumes the financial burden of another lower entity or an individual, with a specific and determined purpose of general interest. This modal donation subordinates the effectiveness of the subsidy to the compliance by the subsidized party with the objectives that justified the request, so that any discrepancy between the pursued business and the one carried out allows, or rather, obliges the Administration to render it ineffective. This, more than a revocation of the initial agreement, constitutes the declaration or acknowledgment that a causal premise has failed, which at the time would have determined its denial.

Therefore, for the granting body to have access to an annual report, as well as to other aspects of the specific activity of the CEE, including the individual action plans for monitoring and improvement with each worker, is not excessive or disproportionate, as it falls within the subsidization principle of achieving the purpose that justifies it. This is also in line with the control of the center's operations, as indicated in the aforementioned Article 13.

It is logical that the administration verifies that the disabled worker is effectively receiving the Personal and Social Adjustment Services and that it is not reduced to a mere formal issue of designation in the staff. That is to say, that the activity of the support units is directed towards what is indicated in Article 43 of the Legislative Royal Decree.
Legal Office
1/2013, to help overcome the barriers, obstacles, or difficulties that workers with disabilities in special employment centers face in the process of integrating into a job, as well as in their retention and progression in the same. Likewise, those aimed at social, cultural, and sports inclusion will also be included; or as indicated in Article 1.2 of Royal Decree 496/2006, which effectively provides rehabilitation, therapeutic, social integration, cultural, and sports services that ensure greater personal rehabilitation and better adaptation in their social relationships.

Regarding the control of the effective provision of personal and social adjustment services, Judgment No. 82/2019 of February 21 from the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the TSJ of Madrid states that:
In relation to personal and social adjustment measures, the appellant argues that the computer training provided to employees is sufficient, but this does not respond to the content of Article 42.2 in fine of Law 13/1982, of April 7 (RCL 1982, 1051), on Social Integration of the Disabled, according to which "Personal and social adjustment services are understood to be those of rehabilitation, therapeutic, social integration, cultural, and sports that provide the disabled worker of the Special Employment Center with greater personal rehabilitation and better adaptation of their social relationships," which must also be carried out by the technical and support staff in possession of the appropriate professional qualifications that the activity of the Center requires (ex Article 7.4 of Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4 (RCL 1985, 2898), on special employment centers for the disabled).

All of the above is similarly reflected in Article 4.1 b) of the repeated Order 1857/2008, of July 11 (LCM 2008, 301). In short, training, a right of every worker, is not the same as personal and social adjustment measures. 
From the Judgment, the importance is extracted that, indeed, workers with disabilities must effectively receive personal and social adjustment services, which is one of the pillars supporting the mere existence of the Special Employment Centers (CEEs), so it is logical that the competent administrations, in addition to the specific control of the subsidy in question, exercise oversight of these centers and that in the exercise of the same, they may know certain personal information of those affected - such as the individualized follow-up that the Support Units have carried out - which is essential to effectively carry out such control.

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
28

                                                           Legal Office
Consequently, and without prejudice to what is indicated in the bases of the specific subsidies, which this Legal Office obviously does not know, individual action plans for follow-up and improvement with each disabled worker resulting from the follow-up of the subsidy in question and the oversight of the CEE could be required, in accordance with Article 13 of Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4.

For its part, the aforementioned Royal Decree 469/2006, of April 21, which regulates the support units for professional activity within the framework of personal and social adjustment services of the Special Employment Centers, establishes in its Article 5 "Beneficiaries of the subsidies" the following:
Entities that own the Special Employment Centers and those Centers, when they have their own legal personality, that meet the following requirements may be beneficiaries of the subsidies regulated in this royal decree:
a) That the Special Employment Centers are registered as such in the corresponding Registry, in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4, which approves the Regulation of Special Employment Centers.
b) That workers with the type of disability and degree of disability established in section 1 of Article 3 of this royal decree are part of the staff of the Special Employment Centers.
c) To comply with the requirements established in Article 13 of Law 38/2003, of November 17, General Subsidies.

In Article 7 under the heading "Granting Procedure," it states that:
1. The granting procedure for the subsidies established in this royal decree will be adjusted to the provisions of Law 38/2003, of November 17, General Subsidies, as established in this royal decree and by the procedural rules and bases or regulatory norms issued by the competent administrations, in accordance with the provisions of the third additional provision of this norm.
2. In the absence of other regulations, according to what is stated in the previous section, the provisions of the Order of the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs of October 16, 1998, which establishes the regulatory bases for the granting of public aid and subsidies aimed at promoting the labor integration of the disabled in Centers. 

c. Jorge Juan 6  
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
29
Legal Office
Special Employment and Self-Employment and in Order TAS/816/2005,
of March 21, which adapts the regulatory framework established
in Law 38/2003, of November 17, General Subsidies Law, to the
regulatory standards for subsidies granted by the State Public Employment Service in the fields of employment and occupational vocational training, with the following specific regulation:
a) The interested parties must provide, along with their application,
supporting documentation of the workforce of workers with disabilities at the Special Employment Center, specifying the type of disability and degree of disability, type and duration of contracts, as well as documentation related to the hiring of workers who make up the Support Units and a description of their functions.
(…)
c) The evaluation of the submitted applications will be carried out in
accordance with the following criteria:
(…)
2. Percentage of workers with the type of disability and degree
of disability described in Article 3 of this royal decree, over
the total number of workers with disabilities at the Special Employment Center.
3. Percentage of women with the type of disability and degree of
disability described in Article 3 of this royal decree, over the
total number of workers with that type of disability and degree of
disability at the Special Employment Center.
(…)
3. The Special Employment Centers that receive the
subsidies regulated in this royal decree will be subject, for the purposes of monitoring and control, to the provisions of
Article 13 of Royal Decree 2273/1985, of December 4, which
approves the regulations for Special Employment Centers.
The Third Additional Provision, “Management transferred to the autonomous communities,” refers to the regulatory bases for the granting, which the autonomous communities dictate for their execution based on their own
organization.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
30

                                                           Legal Office
That is to say, this Royal Decree 469/2006 refers to Article 13 of RD
2273/1985, to which reference has been made regarding the power of control and
supervision exercised by the autonomous communities, and in similar terms in the aforementioned
third additional provision, it does the same with the reference to the bases of the
calls made by the autonomous communities within the scope of their competencies.
Consequently, the regulations do not specify what information is required by
the OECA for the management and control of the subsidies of which the CEE are beneficiaries, but rather it will depend on what the regulatory bases stipulate, taking into account ultimately the effective control that the granting public administration must carry out to verify the
compliance with the purpose that justifies the subsidy, as reminded by
Article 32.1 of Law 38/2003, of November 17, General Subsidies Law
(LGS hereinafter), which states:
1. The granting body will verify the adequate justification of the
subsidy, as well as the execution of the activity and the compliance with
the purpose that determines the granting or enjoyment of the subsidy.
For its part, Royal Decree 818/2021, of September 28, which regulates the common activation programs for employment of the National Employment System, regulates among other issues, certain aids of which the CEE may be recipients, through Articles 51 and
following.
Well, in Article 57 under the heading “Beneficiaries,” it establishes
who the beneficiaries will be and the requirements they must meet, with a
closing clause indicating that “All this, without prejudice to the other
requirements that beneficiaries must meet in accordance with the regulations or
regulatory bases approved by the public employment services.”
That is to say, once again there is a reference to the regulations or regulatory bases
approved by the public employment services.
Finally, it should be noted that in the Legislative Royal Decree 3/2015, of October 23,
which approves the consolidated text of the Employment Law, in its
Second Additional Provision, “Collaboration in information matters with
the public employment services,” it is provided that: “All public and private
bodies and entities will be obliged to provide the State Public Employment Service
and the public employment services of the autonomous communities with any data requested in relation to the fulfillment of their own purposes, respecting what is established in Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data.” - a reference that should be understood in relation to the GDPR and the current Law.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
31
Legal Office
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and
guarantee of digital rights.
Therefore, in accordance with the regulations that have been analyzed, and without prejudice to the specific aid or subsidy that may be determined, the CEE could be required by the public administration to provide information regarding the specific monitoring of a disabled worker in relation to the services that have actually been provided to them, based on the studies and follow-ups conducted with each worker.
Thus, compliance with the principle of minimization will depend on the type of aid and subsidy whose regulation corresponds to the different Autonomous Communities (CCAA) and the technical body responsible for them, all without prejudice to the oversight powers over the CEE that the aforementioned regulations attribute to the CCAA, and in whose execution certain information could be accessed depending on the specific case.
VIII
Finally, regarding the last question raised, it is stated that the CEE may refuse to provide certain information requested by the OECA for registration in the established registry, as well as for participation in the various aid and subsidy procedures. It should be noted that in the previously mentioned Report 117/2019, a similar issue was resolved concerning the possibility that participants in a competitive bidding procedure might not provide certain documentation because it was already in the possession of the administration, which is pertinent to mention due to the similarities presented in the current inquiry:
(…) V
Additionally, the inquiry indicates the possibility that in certain requests made by public administrations, the provisions of the Eighth Additional Provision of the LOPDGDD may apply, the text of which is as follows:
Eighth Additional Provision Power of verification of the Public Administrations.
When requests are made by any means in which the interested party declares personal data that are in the possession of the Public Administrations, the body receiving the request may
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
32

                                                           Legal Office
carry out the necessary verifications in the exercise of its competencies to verify the accuracy of the data.
The inquirer also cites in relation to the above, the provisions of Article 28, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the LPACAP, which states the following:
2. Interested parties have the right not to provide documents that are already in the possession of the acting Administration or have been prepared by any other Administration. The acting administration may consult or obtain such documents unless the interested party opposes it. Opposition shall not be possible when the provision of the document is required in the context of the exercise of sanctioning or inspection powers.
Public Administrations must electronically obtain documents through their corporate networks or by consulting data intermediation platforms or other electronic systems enabled for this purpose.
When it comes to mandatory reports already prepared by an administrative body other than the one processing the procedure, these must be sent within ten days from the date of request. Once this period has elapsed, the interested party will be informed that they can provide this report or wait for its submission by the competent body.
3. Administrations shall not require interested parties to present original documents, unless, exceptionally, the applicable regulatory provisions establish otherwise.
Likewise, Public Administrations shall not require interested parties to provide data or documents not required by the applicable regulatory provisions or that have been previously submitted by the interested party to any Administration. For these purposes, the interested party must indicate when and before which administrative body they submitted the aforementioned documents, and Public Administrations must electronically obtain them through their corporate networks or by consulting data intermediation platforms or other electronic systems enabled for this purpose, unless there is an express opposition from the interested party in the procedure or the applicable special law requires their express consent. Exceptionally, if Public Administrations cannot obtain the aforementioned documents, they may again request the interested party to provide them.
In the present case, it is not the personal data of the interested party that will be subject to processing derived from a consultation or from a
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
33
Legal Office
delivery of documents and regarding what could be indicated to the administration that has already been provided, but it is the bidding entrepreneur who is responsible for presenting documents that belong to third parties, such as disabled workers. 
In other words, documents are not required from disabled workers – who are in no case interested parties in the public procurement procedure – but rather, by virtue of the LCSP, it is the bidder who is requested to provide certain documents to verify the details of the responsible declaration.
In this case, two situations must be differentiated based on the concept of interested parties in administrative procedures, which according to Article 4 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, is considered as such:
a) Those who promote it as holders of individual or collective legitimate rights or interests.
b) Those who, without having initiated the procedure, have rights that may be affected by the decision made therein.
c) Those whose legitimate interests, individual or collective, may be affected by the resolution and who participate in the procedure as long as a definitive resolution has not been issued.
The different situations will be the various administrative procedures affected by the inquiry, the qualification and registration procedure of the CEE by the competent bodies of the CCAA, and the procedure referring to the specific aid and subsidy that the CEE may opt for.
In the first situation, we cannot understand that disabled workers, whose data may be subject to processing such as the disability certificate and other relevant information, are interested parties in the qualification and registration procedure of the CEE, since it is obvious that it is the CEE and not the potential disabled workers that may be hired. Therefore, the provisions of Article 28.2 and 3 of the LPACAP would not apply, in the sense that the documentation that may be exempted from submission does not belong to the interested party in that procedure, the CEE, but rather to a third party, the disabled worker.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
34

                                                           Legal Office
In the second situation regarding aid and subsidies, the General Subsidies Law establishes in its Article 11 under the heading "Beneficiaries" the following:
1. The person who is to carry out the activity that justified its granting or who is in the situation that legitimizes its concession shall be considered a beneficiary of subsidies.
And in Article 13. Requirements to obtain the status of beneficiary or collaborating entity, it states:
1. Individuals or entities that find themselves in the situation that justifies the granting of the subsidy or that meet the circumstances provided for in the regulatory bases and in the call may obtain the status of beneficiary or collaborating entity.
For its part, Royal Decree 469/2006, of April 21, which regulates the support units for professional activity within the framework of the personal and social adjustment services of Special Employment Centers, indicates in its Article 5, "Beneficiaries of the subsidies" that:
Entities that are the holders of Special Employment Centers and those Centers, when they have their own legal personality, that meet the following requirements may be beneficiaries of the subsidies regulated in this royal decree.
And in Article 7 referring to the granting procedure, it indicates that it will be adjusted to the LGS, to the aforementioned Royal Decree, and to the regulatory bases, and in the first additional provision, referring to the applicable regulations, it states that:
In matters not regulated in this royal decree, the general regulations on the granting of subsidies, constituted by Law 38/2003, of November 17, General Subsidies Law, and its development regulations shall apply.
For its part, the aforementioned Royal Decree 818/2021, of September 28, establishes in its Article 57 that the status of beneficiaries of the aids and subsidies provided therein is attributed to the CEE.
In Report 98/2017, this issue was addressed under the regulation of Article 28 LPACAP before its reform by the LOPDGDD, indicating that:
In contrast, the "beneficiaries" of such aids will be the Special Employment Centers, which will be the ones required to submit, along with the subsidy application, the documentation required for the granting of the aid. Among other aspects that must be accredited is the
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
35
Legal Office
degree of disability of the workers on the basis of which assistance is requested.
The inquiry focuses its question on Article 28 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (Law 39/2015). However, the concept of "interested party" referred to in Law 39/2015 is not the same as that in Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of Personal Data (LOPD). 
Article 4 of Law 39/2015 defines the concept of interested party as, in what is applicable here, those who promote the administrative procedure as holders of individual or collective legitimate rights or interests (Article 4.1 a). Given that the granting of the subsidies referred to in the inquiry is initiated at the request of the interested party (Article 5 of Royal Decree 357/2006, of March 24, which regulates the direct granting of certain subsidies in the fields of employment and occupational vocational training), the interested party in the administrative procedure is the Special Employment Center (Centro Especial de Empleo, CEE).
From the above, it can be inferred that the beneficiaries of the aids and subsidies regulated by the cited norms will be the CEEs and, based on this, they will generally be the interested parties in the subsidy procedure.
In the aforementioned Report 98/2017, it was resolved that under the protection of Article 28.2 LPACAP, the CEEs will provide the consent of the disabled workers so that the granting administration can consult their certificates:
(…) it does not seem contrary to said norms, to Law 39/2015, that the interested party in the subsidy administrative procedure (the Special Employment Center) may provide the procedure with the consent of the various affected parties regarding the data transfer (the workers with disabilities), (…) to allow the Administration, in the context of Law 39/2015, to “consult” said data in its files based on the administrative procedure regulations. In this case, and given that Law 39/2015 requires that it is the Administration that must receive the consent of the interested party to “consult or request” said documents, it is considered that the consulting Administration must have the document in which the worker has expressly granted their consent for the consultation. (…)
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
36

                                                           Legal Office
Currently, following the reform of Article 28.2 carried out by the LOPDGDD, the requirement for such consent would not apply, since the administrations act under the protection of Article 6.1 c) or e) of the GDPR and in the specific case, the new regulation of Article 28.2 LPACAP must be interpreted in accordance with Article 28.3 of the LGS.
Indeed, it should be noted that the procedure for granting the various subsidies is governed by the LGS, without prejudice to the regulations and bases approved by the granting body, and in Article 23 on the "Initiation" of the subsidy procedure, it is indicated in its section 3 that:
3. The applications of the interested parties shall accompany the documents and information determined in the regulation or call, unless the required documents are already in the possession of any acting Administration body, in which case the applicant may rely on what is established in paragraph f) of Article 35 of Law 30/1992, of November 26, on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure, provided that the date and the body or dependency in which they were submitted or, where appropriate, issued, is stated, and when no more than five years have elapsed since the conclusion of the procedure to which they correspond.
That is to say, unlike the other situation referred to the qualification and registration procedure of the CEEs, regarding the subsidies in which, despite being interested parties, the CEEs and not the persons with disabilities working in them, the specific applicable regulations - the LGS - establishes the possibility in its Article 23.3, that certain documents may not be submitted under the fulfillment of a series of requirements. 
Therefore, and considering that this is an administrative law issue outside the competence of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the conclusion reached is that this provision could be applicable, and the CEEs could not provide certain documents in the context of a subsidy procedure, unless the nature of the subsidy requires it according to the regulatory bases, for example, the disability certificates that were already required for their classification and registration as CEEs by the OECA.
c. Jorge Juan 6 
                                                                                                                                                             www.aepd.es
28001 Madrid
37