Vejle Municipality is recommended for a fine
Date: 16-06-2021
Decision
Public authorities
Police report
Reported breach of personal data security
Treatment safety
Unintentional disclosure
Children
The Danish Data Protection Authority reports Vejle Municipality to the police, as the Danish Data Protection Authority assesses that the municipality has not met the requirements for an appropriate level of security in the data protection regulation.
Vejle Municipality has been fined DKK 200,000 for not having complied with its obligation as data controller to implement appropriate security measures.
The Danish Data Protection Authority became aware of the case when the municipality reported a breach of personal data security. It emerged from the case that the municipal dental care had a fixed practice where welcome letters containing the addresses of both parents were automatically sent to both holders of parental authority. In the individual cases, the municipality had not assessed whether the information had to be passed on to the other parent.
This meant that in several cases parents received information about the other parent's (and the child's) address, regardless of whether the latter had name and address protection.
Requirements for adequate security
"When you set up an automatic process for sending letters with personal data, e.g. addresses, it must be taken into account that the disclosure of the information in each individual case must not expose the rights of citizens, including children, to a risk. Moreover, you always have to assess whether it is even necessary for the information to appear in the letters," explains Eva Volfing, chief consultant at the Danish Data Protection Authority.
Recommendation for a fine
The Danish Data Protection Authority has decided to report Vejle Municipality to the police and recommends that a claim be made that the municipality be fined DKK 200,000.
In its proposal for the size of the fine, the Danish Data Protection Authority has, among other things, emphasized the nature and seriousness of the infringement as well as the regulation's requirement that a fine in each individual case must be effective, proportionate to the infringement and have a deterrent effect. Emphasis has also been placed on the municipality's size in terms of population and the total operating licence.
Do you want to know more?
Press inquiries can be directed to communications consultant Anders Due on tel. 29 49 32 83.