 

 

 
 
Registration number: NAIH-3138-18/2021

 

                                               Subject: decision

 
 
 

H A T A R O Z A T

 

 

Before the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: Authority) [...]
applicants (hereinafter together: Applicants) their representative, [...] (hereinafter: Legal
representative) of the personal data of the Applicants […] (hereinafter: Applicant 1) and [...]
(hereinafter: Applicant 2) together, as Applicants (hereinafter: Applicants) by the
Multiple cameras of the applicants' personal data located in the applicants' property
submitted to the Authority in 2021 regarding the treatment of offenders with a monitoring system.
Following your request received on March 4, the following is the official data protection procedure
makes decisions:
 
I. The application in all its elements - including those in which the Applicants requested that the Authority
determine the illegal handling of their personal data by the Applicants, that in view of this
order them to dismantle their cameras and that the Authority ban them from the Applicants
from camera surveillance –
 

 
II. The Authority ex officio determines that the Applicants have cameras which
they are also partly aimed at public areas, so that their operation has violated the general
Article 6 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation.

rejects.

 

II.1. The Authority ex officio obliges the Respondents to make this decision final
terminate the illegal data processing within 30 days of the divorce
bring their operations into line with legal provisions by
 

• modify the viewing angle of the "Entrance" and "Street" cameras so that the

should not be aimed at public areas, or

• apply a masking function by using software that provides masking

when making recordings, or

• they are covered mechanically (e.g. the angle of view of the camera towards the public area

covering part of it with an object), or

• remove the marked cameras!

 
II.2. to take the measures prescribed in point 2
must be submitted in writing within 15 days of the
certify to the Authority. II.2. in case of non-fulfilment of the obligation according to point, the Authority orders a
implementation of the decision.
 

During the official procedure, no procedural costs were incurred, therefore, no costs were incurred

was provided by the Authority.

 
There is no place for administrative appeal against this decision, but from the announcement
within 30 days from the date of issue, with a letter of claim addressed to the Capital Tribunal
can be challenged in a lawsuit. You must submit the statement of claim electronically to the Authority, which will
forwards it to the court together with the case documents. The request for the holding of the trial is submitted by the
must be indicated in the application. For those who do not receive full personal tax exemption a

 

the fee for the judicial review procedure is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record fees. THE
Legal representation is mandatory in proceedings before the Metropolitan Court.

 

 

I N D O C O L A S

 
I. Cleaning up the process and the reality
 
I.1. 2021, submitted to the Authority by the authorized representative of the Applicant, […].
In the request for official data protection procedure received on March 4, the Applicant submitted that
Applicants are neighbors of the Applicants, the property under […] (hereinafter: Property)
its owners. They requested outdoor cameras for the gable of the roof structure of the [...] property
equipped. The Applicants have personally informed the Respondents several times,
that they consider the cameras referred to as worrisome as they are specifically the Applicants
owned Real Estate, its yard, front door, and the Applicants
they take Applicants have repeatedly asked their neighbors to remove the cameras, as they are
without their consent, despite their protest, they take pictures of them, watch their garden and the
their entrance. Despite all this, the Respondents still did not remove the cameras and
they continued to maintain surveillance of the Applicants and the Property.
 

Applicants on December 15, 2020 through the legal representative also acting in this case
an inquiry was sent to the Applicants, which was delivered on December 21, 2020
beer. In it, the Respondents were informed of their position, according to which they pursued
data management is illegal, and they were asked to remove the illegal cameras.

 
According to the Applicants, on February 20, 2021, the Applicants gave their own property
an additional camera was placed in the room facing the Property, which the Applicants 2021.
was detected on the 21st of February. According to the Applicants, the viewing angle of the latter camera
it is directed specifically to the Applicants' bedroom.

 
According to the Applicants' point of view, the Applicants are the Real Estate and their persons are cameras
data management according to Article 4, point 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation
implemented, in connection with which they are considered data controllers. The Applicants believe that a
The data management performed by the applicants did not comply with the camera surveillance systems
governing requirements in terms of data management, since the placement of the cameras and
based on the setting of their viewing angle, they may be able to observe another's private area,
make recordings related to other properties, thereby infringing the observed in this way
for the protection of personal data
rights, as well as
his private sphere.

right, personal

 
According to the applicants, the camera directed towards their bedroom is also personal
in addition to data, the Applicants on the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information
CXII of 2011 TV. (hereinafter: Infotv.) also affects your special data according to § 3. point 3.

 
Based on the above, the Applicants requested a
Authority to condemn the Respondents as data controllers, Infotv. Section 5 (1)
paragraph, as well as general data protection
data management of Article 6 of the Decree
in relation to its infringement by their activities, and order them to remove the [...]
cameras placed on the property at no
from observation.
 
 
I.2. First, the Authority NAIH-3138-2/2021. and NAIH-3138-3/2021. with calls no
contacted the Applicants, to which the Applicants responded on April 8, 2021
in their letter they responded as follows.
 

2

 
 

They applied

the Authority was informed that the camera system

on the installation of the
The applicants decided to install it years earlier - in April 2016
it took place for reasons of property protection and the protection of the life of the Applicants,
which they verbally informed their neighbors at the time. The data is managed by the Applicant 1
performed, no one else has access to the recorded data. As part of the camera system, 4 Provision DI 2MP
type of camera, which are placed on the four sides of their house. The cameras have optical,
and there is no digital lens setting option, no sound is recorded, they are a central one
are connected to a device. The central Provision ISR type, 4-channel device is 1 TB
capacity hard drive, its web server is from the computer in the apartment
is available. External Internet access is not configured, and it only has one user
there is Recorded camera footage is available for 6 days, after which it is automatically overwritten.

 
Respondent 1 also attached photographs to prove the angle of view of the cameras

to his statement which clearly shows that
 

1) the camera called "Rear entrance" to the Applicant's own yard and - a narrow one
in lane - for the property of their non-Applicant neighbor, […], i.e. a
to your private area;

2) the camera named "Street" to the Applicant's own yard and - in a narrow strip -

to the street in front of the Applicant's property, as public space;

3) the camera named "Garden" to the Applicant's own yard and - in a narrow strip - to the

non-Applicant for their neighbor's property at […], i.e. his private land;

4) the camera called "Entrance" to the Applicant's own yard and - in a narrow lane

- to the street in front of the Applicant's property, as public space

 

is controlled.
 

Respondent 1 also submitted that in September 2020, the Applicants camera
installed on their own property, right next to their fence (IP camera type P05, which
was suitable for tracking the movements of the Applicants, presumably also recorded sound, as well as
in the evening, when the Applicants are parking, it "lights up like a reflector". In this regard, the […]
decision made before the clerk's office of the municipality (hereinafter: Office) at […]
limited the operation of the camera, and then the camera was dismantled by the Applicant.

 
Respondent 1 also submitted that both the Applicants and the Legal Representative -
the latter also confirmed by the e-mail sent to him - he offered to be included in the recordings made with the camera
the possibility of insight, which they did not accept and did not use.
 
 
I.3. After that, the Authority NAIH-3138-7/2021. s. in his order, he called on Respondent 1 that
the Applicants in the photographs attached by the Applicants as an attachment to their application
regarding the device shown in the window - identified by the applicants as a camera - inform the
Authority about whether it is really a camera and, if so, from which area it is recording. THE
The Authority also called on the Requested Party to declare for what purpose and pursuant to Article 6 of the GDPR.
observes with the camera system on the basis of the legal basis regulated in Article
property area?
 

In response to this, the Applicants NAIH-3138-8/2021. s. in their reply they informed the
Authority that the device is not a camera, to prove which they attached their front door and
its immediate surroundings - where in the images submitted by the Applicants to the camera
a supposed device is included - demonstration recordings.

 
In order to verify for what purpose and on the basis of the legal basis according to the GDPR, the […]
the area of the property below, the Applicant attached the statement of the neighbor, [...]
which included that the cameras of the camera system operated by [Applicant 1] were his
were installed with his knowledge and consent, and were set at his request in such a way that a

3

 
 

his private area is in their field of vision, given that he had strangers at his place on 2 occasions
intrusion, which is why he wanted the largest possible area of his property, even its entrance
could be observed in this way. The applicant also indicated to the Authority that he wished to live
with his right to document inspection.

 
The Authority subsequently NAIH-3138-9/2021. and NAIH-3138-10/2021. with orders no
called the parties to the conclusion of the evidentiary procedure, and informed them of the document inspection
and about their right to present a motion for proof, at the same time - the Respondent 1 former
in view of his statement - he sent the requested document to him. The Applicants at the request of the Authority
3138-13/2021, the Authority sent as a response to the document inspection submission. s.
granted in his order.
 
 
I.4. In their response letter dated July 15, 2021, the Applicants provided a statement and evidence
presented a motion in which they submitted that "in the past few days, another, unauthorized
they thought they discovered a camera implementing data management in the upstairs window of the Applicants, with which the
The Applicants' garden was requested
is being watched and which is covered by a paper box. THE
It is thoroughly immersed in applicants
furthermore, the suspicion that the Applicants
they record the conversations between them in the garden area using a recording device."
 

up

They also submitted that their "attached camera images were taken after those

It was transferred from the applicants' property to another direction."

 
In order to clarify the facts, the Applicants asked the Authority to continue the inspection
The data recorded by the cameras and possible microphones placed at the applicants' place of residence,
as well as for determining the viewing angle of the cameras.
 
 
I.5. The Authority - considering the Applicants' statement and request for evidence -
NAIH-3138-15/2021. s. by order of Infotv. Based on paragraph (1b) of § 71, he was contacted by the arra
the notary having jurisdiction according to the property of the Applicants, to be checked by it
the actual circumstances of data management and provide information about them.
 

The Office based on the request of the Authority - without prior notification to the Applicants -
On August 4, 2021, he conducted a successful on-site inspection, during which
established that the number and type of cameras operated by the Applicants,
in terms of their technical parameters and viewing angle, they are the same as those previously provided by the Applicants
presented, only Applicants actually have access to them and only 6 days a
storage duration of recordings. Cameras record footage continuously, however
no sound is recorded. The Office established that the software used for data management
not suitable for masking. Regarding the angle of view of the cameras, the Authority addressed it to the Office
request to confirm that the cameras' angle of view is not only the footage attached to the Authority
it was moved to a different angle for the duration of its production. The Office complied with this in a way
that during the inspection - carried out the day before that day, carried out by the Applicants -
the recordings, which show the angle of view of the cameras at the time, were sent to the Office employee by e-
email address was sent on the spot. Based on this, it was possible to verify that the cameras were present
its preliminary point of view is the same as that experienced by the Office.

 
During the on-site inspection, the Office also established that it was not a sound recording
occurred, and no sign of audio recording was found. The Office also recorded that
he did not find any paper boxes inside or outside the windows of the rooms on the first floor, which the property
with a photo taken during the visit
photo-
took pictures of the Applicants' front door and the windows close to it, which
investigated, the Authority did not find any circumstances indicating - especially hidden - camera data management.

also confirmed. The office

furthermore

 

 
 

4

In view of the fact that the administration deadline has been exceeded, the Authority orders
HUF 10,000-10,000, i.e. HUF 10,000-10,000 to be paid to the Applicants - their choice
according to - by bank transfer or postal order.
 
 
I I . APPLICABLE LAW REGULATIONS
 

Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation applies to personal data
partially or fully automated processing, as well as their personal
for the non-automated processing of data that is part of a registry
are part of a system or are intended to be part of a registration system. The
for data processing under the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation, Infotv. Paragraph (2) of § 2
according to the General Data Protection Regulation shall be applied with the additions indicated therein.

 
Infotv. According to § 38, paragraph (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data,
as well as for learning data of public interest and public in the public interest
law
control and promotion of its validity, as well as personal data within the European Union
facilitating its free flow.

 
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2a) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory
tasks and powers established for the authority under the jurisdiction of Hungary
with regard to legal entities, they are defined in the general data protection regulation and this law
according to the Authority.

 
Infotv. According to Section 60 (1), enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
in order to do so, the Authority initiates an official data protection procedure at the request of the data subject and
may initiate official data protection proceedings ex officio.

 
In the absence of a different provision of the general data protection regulation, the data protection authority
for procedure CL. 2016 on the general administrative procedure. law (hereinafter:
Ákr.) shall be applied with the deviations specified in Infotv.

 
Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the regulation does not

applies to the processing of personal data if:

a) they are carried out during activities outside the scope of EU law;
b) the member states during activities falling under the scope of Chapter 2 of Title V of the EUSZ

are carried out;

c) carried out by natural persons exclusively in the context of their personal or home activities;
d) prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of crimes by the competent authorities
conducted for the purpose of conducting or enforcing criminal sanctions, including public safety
protection against threats and the prevention of these threats.

 
Based on recital (18) of the general data protection regulation, the regulation does not
shall apply to the personal data provided by the natural person exclusively as personal data
for treatment carried out in the context of home activities, which are therefore of no professional or business nature
cannot be associated with the activity. It is considered a personal or home activity
for example, correspondence, address storage, and personal and home activities mentioned
contact and online activities on social networks. E
regulation must be applied, however, to those data managers and data processors who a
for the processing of personal data in the context of such personal or home activities is
tools are provided.
 

According to Article 4, Point 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "personal data: the identified
or identifiable
information;
the natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular, can be identified
an identifier such as name, number, location data, online identifier or a

("affected") concerning any

to a natural person

 
 

5

physical, physiological, genetic, intellectual, economic, cultural or social natural person
can be identified based on one or more factors relating to its identity."

 
According to point 2 of the same article, "data management: on personal data or data files
any action or actions performed by automated or non-automated means
total,
storage, transformation or
change, query, insight, use, communication, transmission, distribution or otherwise
by way of making it available, coordination or connection, limitation,
deletion or destruction."

so the collection,

organization,

recording,

segmentation,

 
Pursuant to point 7, "data controller: the natural or legal person, public authority,
agency or any other body that determines the purposes of processing personal data and
determines its assets independently or together with others; if the purposes and means of data management
determined by EU or Member State law, to designate the data controller or the data controller
relevant special aspects can also be defined by EU or member state law."

 

Management of personal data pursuant to Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation

it is only legal if and to the extent that at least one of the following is fulfilled:

a) the data subject has given his consent to the processing of his personal data for one or more specific purposes

for its treatment;

b) data management is necessary for the performance of a contract in which the data subject is one of the parties,
or to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
required;

c) data management is necessary to fulfill the legal obligation of the data controller;
d) the data processing is for the vital interests of the data subject or another natural person

necessary for its protection;

e) the data management is in the public interest or is a public authority entrusted to the data manager

driver's license

necessary for the execution of a task performed in the context of its exercise;

f) data management to enforce the legitimate interests of the data controller or a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over these interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms that require the protection of personal data,
especially if a child is involved.
 

Infotv. 60/A. According to § (1), in the official data protection procedure, the administrative

deadline one hundred and fifty days.

 
The Akr. Based on § 51, paragraph (1) b) if the Authority exceeds the administrative deadline - and
there was no place to make a decision with a contingent effect - you are a fee for conducting the procedure
an amount corresponding to the fee, or failing this, ten thousand forints will be paid to the requesting client, who
is also exempt from paying procedural costs.

 
The Akr. According to Section 6 (1), all participants in the procedure are obliged to act in good faith

to act and cooperate with other participants.

 
The Akr. Based on § 62, paragraph (4), the Authority freely chooses the method of proof,

and evaluates the available evidence according to his free conviction.

 
Infotv. According to § 61, paragraph (1), point a), it was made in the official data protection procedure
in its decision, the Authority issued Infotv. Data management defined in paragraph (2) of § 2
operations in connection with general data protection
defined in the decree
may apply legal consequences.

 
Infotv. According to § 71, paragraph (1b), the local government may request the Authority
its notary checks the conduct in the area of competence indicated by the Authority in the request
the actual circumstances of data management, including in particular the scope of personal data handled, a

6

 
 

operations performed with personal data and the means of these operations, as well as by the data controller
applied technical and organizational measures.

 
According to Article 58(2)(b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory authority
condemns the data manager or data processor if its data management activities have violated it
the provisions of this regulation, and pursuant to point d) of the same paragraph, the supervisory authority
acting within its corrective powers, instructs the data controller that its data management operations - given
in a specified manner and within a specified period of time - harmonises this regulation
with its provisions.
 
 
I I I . Decision making
 
III.1. The person of the data controller
 
Based on Article 4, Point 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "that natural or legal person
[…], which defines the purposes and means of processing personal data independently or together with others
define […]". However, the GDPR recognizes the concept of joint data controllers, which is part of Article 26 of the GPDR.
based on article, occurs when the purpose and means of data management are two or more
determined jointly by the data controller. Based on the facts revealed in this case, the data management a
The applicants jointly decided,
common regarding
are considered data controllers.
 
 
III.2. Legality of camera data management
 
III.2.1. Separation of household and non-household data management
 

so they are camera data management

Based on Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the image of the data subject
is considered personal data. The identified or identifiable natural person is affected.
Pursuant to all of this, if a natural person can be identified based on a recording,
then the taken image is personal data, the taking of the image is data management
it counts as.
 

The application of the camera may be suitable based on its placement and angle of view
to observe another's private area or the public area connected to another's property
make recordings that may violate the personal rights of the persons observed with the camera
rights, privacy.
 

Based on point c) of Article 2 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, they do not belong to
regulation, so the rules of the general data protection regulation do not have to be applied
for the processing of personal data, if it is exclusively personal or domestic by natural persons
carried out as part of their activities (so-called "household data management"). The personal or home
activity is provided by recital (18) of the general data protection regulation
examples, such as correspondence, address storage, personal and home activities
contact on social networks and other online activities.
However, it is important to highlight that - as the Court of Justice of the European Union calls it
In the Rynes judgment1, he established - the exception rule for private data processing
must be interpreted narrowly. Pursuant to this decision, camera surveillance - in that part
if also to persons staying in an area outside the private property of the data controller
covers - does not fall under the said exception.

 
This practice was upheld by the European Data Protection Board for use of video devices
in its guidelines of 3/2019 on personal data management2. The guideline in addition to

1 C 212/13. case number - http://curia.europa.eu/juris/document/document.jsf?docid=160561&doclang=HU
2 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_201903_video_devices_en_0.pdf Chapter 3.1.2, point 27

 

7

 
 

states that it is generally designed for the purpose of monitoring the self-owned area
the application of a camera surveillance system can extend to the border of the area, he admits that it is exceptional
case, a situation may arise where the scope of camera surveillance cannot be narrowed down
within its own territory, since in this way it would not be sufficiently effective
protection. Adequate technical or organizational measures (for example, the purpose of the monitoring
covering an area that is not relevant from the point of view or the monitored part with IT tools
filtering) in addition to the application, the individual is entitled to extend the camera
observation of the immediate environment of the own-owned area as well.

 
At the same time, in the event that the private individual does not use the public space - or
other private areas in the camera's field of view - covering solutions, or who purposefully a
already operates a camera system monitoring a public area or other private area as a data manager
becomes, moreover, its activity is not classified as private data processing, so it must apply
all requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation for data controllers.
By applying masking, the area observed by the camera can be narrowed down to the area that
is in the possession of the data controller. However, if the angle of view of the cameras is that of the cameraman
outside the private sphere of the person performing data management with a monitoring system - for example
to public space,
area, or other third parties
owned area - it is directed, it cannot be considered that the "personal,
and home" activities. For this reason, the given data management activity is subject to the GDPR
belongs to, which thus requires an appropriate legal basis according to Article 6 of the GDPR.
 
III.2.2. The application, declarations and evidentiary motions submitted by the Applicants

owned by

condominium shared

 
In their request for the Authority's procedure, the Applicants asked the Authority to:

1) establish that the Applicants, as data controllers, are […]
is violated by data processing with the surveillance system of several cameras placed in the property
the Applicants' right to the protection of personal data, Infotv. § 5, paragraph (1),
and Article 6 of the GDPR;

2) condemn the Respondents as data controllers a

unlawful data processing

because of their activities, as well as

3) instruct the data controllers to remove it on the property at […]

illegally placed cameras and

4) prohibit the data controllers from camera monitoring of the Applicants.

 
The Applicants attached it to the Respondents' house to support the contents of their application
it was taken from the entrance and from the window next to it, as well as from the camera under the eaves of the house
photo recordings.

 
The Office's on-site inspection against the statements made by the Applicants during this procedure
after examining the minutes and recordings made during the investigation, the Authority found that
During the procedure, the Applicants did not change the angle of view of the cameras, so the Applicants
surveillance of his private area could not be justified. Neither did the Applicants provide any evidence of this
made available to the Authority, moreover, the photograph attached to the application submitted by them
recordings also confirmed that the cameras operated by the Applicants were not targeted
on their property (for example, from the camera marked "Street" NAIH-3138-
6/2021. s. based on the camera image attached to the application, this camera is not aimed at the Applicants either
for his property, which was also confirmed by the on-site inspection. Attached to the Applicants' submission
recordings do not contradict this, on the contrary, they show the same way
referenced camera.
 

Also, minutes and recordings made during the on-site inspection of the Office
examined, the Authority came to the conclusion that there were no verifiable a
The applicants' claims that "in the past few days, another
unauthorized data management
they thought they discovered a surveillance camera in the Applicant's upstairs window, with which the Applicant
Applicants' garden
is being watched and which is covered by a paper box. In applicants

8

 
 

there is also a well-founded suspicion that the Applicants via a sound recording device
they record the conversations between them in the garden area." The Authority in this regard
he notes that it is not enough to establish a well-founded suspicion of an activity
set; it does not become automatic simply by making the statement
established, it also requires its provability.
 

Also, minutes and recordings made during the on-site inspection of the Office
upon examination, the Authority found that the Applicants' request was not confirmed
included in the statement that the Applicants also placed a new camera on their property, which
the angle of view of the camera is directed towards the Applicants' bedroom window [...] So the [Applicants]
no longer only the garden of the Applicants, what happened there, the traffic in and out of the entrance,
as well as the persons staying there, but in the bedroom inside the Property
persons present and events are also observed." Data management is carried out by the staff of the Office
in this regard, the circumstances revealed by the Applicants coincided with the statements made by the Applicants and
with attached pictures to prove them, so the Authority could clearly establish that
neither the Applicants' garden nor their bedroom window by the Applicants
for observation.

 
The Authority is the Akr. based on § 62, paragraph (4), he freely chooses the method of proof,
and evaluates the available evidence according to his free conviction. Hence the
Authority in all elements of the Applicants' request - so in which the Applicants it
requested that the Authority determine that their personal data was violated by the Applicants
management to instruct them to dismantle their cameras in view of this, and that the Authority
ban them from camera surveillance of the Applicants, he refuses.

 

The Authority hereby draws the attention of the Applicants to the fact that the administrative authority
in procedures - in accordance with Basic Law XXIV. and XXVIII. with Article - the procedure is everything
participant in accordance with the applicable rules and at all stages of the procedure, the Ákr-
acts by enforcing the basic principles and basic rules laid down in Ákr. § 1
also declares. Among other things, such a principle is the Art. According to § 6, so-called "The principle of good faith and trust
principle", according to paragraph (1) of which all participants in the procedure are obliged
act in good faith and cooperate with other participants. In this context, the Authority
draws the attention of the Applicants to the fact that the Applicant both before the procedure and
after its initiation, both the Applicants and the
For a legal representative, his willingness to enable them to a
direct insight into recordings. If the Applicants had fulfilled the Ákr
due to their obligation to cooperate, and the recordings are viewed directly, i.e
way to make sure that the Applicants actually manage the personal
their data, then a lengthy procedure could have started.
 
III.2.3. Additional data processing by the Applicants that is not classified as household data processing
 

The Authority found that the Applicants NAIH-3138-6-2021. no., on April 8, 2021
from his forwarded statement that the data management they carry out with the camera system - at least
partially - illegal, since according to the attached snapshots, 2 cameras (the "Street" and the
named "Entrance") also observes public space in a narrower lane. 2 additional cameras (a
"Rear entrance" and "Garden") to the adjacent private area in a narrower lane
he sees it.

 
Some of the cameras operated by the Applicants show their non-Applicant neighbours,
[…] his property, i.e. his private area, was visible. The Applicants use the legal basis for data management e
was determined in the stakeholder consent according to Article 6 (1) point a) of the GDPR
and, as proof of which, [their neighbor's] statement was attached. The purpose of data management – own
similarly to the data management in connection with their property - it was marked in asset protection. THE
Authority taking into account the statement of the Respondent and the attached evidence in this regard
clearly established the legality of data management.

9

 
 


At the same time, the Respondents, as data controllers, can primarily monitor only private areas
and, as a general rule, monitoring of public areas is only carried out by bodies authorized by law
they can continue. If a camera extends beyond a legally monitored private area
point of view, this is only possible in particularly justified cases, and Article 6 (1) of the GDPR
This type of data management can be carried out on the basis of the legal basis of legitimate interest according to paragraph f), where
compliance with the requirements of necessity and proportionality must be based on a consideration of interests
certify to the data controller.

 
According to the statement of the Applicants, the purpose of data management is to protect their lives and property
took place, so the Authority is entitled to do this according to Article 6 (1) point f) of the GDPR
can be evaluated in the scope of interest-based data management. Although indicated by the Applicants
the one next to their property may potentially be suitable for achieving property and life protection goals
persons passing by or staying on the street, i.e. in public areas, are continuous and permanent
observation, but at the same time, the permanent one realized in this way, without restrictions for everyone
extensive data management cannot be proportionate to the people involved - those entering the field of view of the cameras -
with their interest in protecting your personal data. In this way, the Applicants are the public domain
Article 6 of the GDPR was violated by their observation, as the persons staying in the public area are affected
your personal data has been or is being managed without an adequate legal basis.
 
III.3. Legal consequences
 

The Authority based on Article 58 (2) point b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
condemns the Respondents because their data management activities violated the general
Article 6 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation and Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
based on paragraph d) instructs the Respondents that from the decision becoming final
terminate the illegal data management and their data management operations within 30 days
are brought into line with the legal provisions. The Applicants do this in several ways
they can comply, even if the data processing with the camera is made possible by law
be limited to the extent that it is completely limited to the cameras concerned
will be eliminated.

 
The Authority ex officio examined whether data protection against the Respondents was justified
imposition of a fine. In this context, the Authority is Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
and Infotv.75/A. on the basis of §, he ex officio considered all the circumstances of the case and established,
that the imposition of a fine is not necessary in the case of a violation discovered during this procedure.

 

 

I V Other questions
 

Infotv. According to § 38, paragraph (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data,
as well as for learning data of public interest and public in the public interest
law
control and promotion of its validity, as well as personal data within the European Union
facilitating its free flow. According to paragraph (2a) of the same §, general data protection
the tasks and powers established for the supervisory authority in Hungary
with regard to legal entities under its jurisdiction in the general data protection regulation and e
it is exercised by the Authority as defined by law.

 
This decision is based on Art. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on § 60, paragraph (1).
 
The Akr. § 112 and § 116 (1), respectively, of the Ákr. Based on § 114, paragraph (1) a

a decision can be appealed through an administrative lawsuit.

 

 

 
 

* * *

10

The rules of the administrative trial are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Based on § 12, paragraph (1), by decision of the Authority
the administrative lawsuit against falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is referred to in the Kp. § 13, subsection (3) a)
Based on point aa), the Metropolitan Court is exclusively competent. The Kp. Section 27 (1)
legal representation is mandatory in a lawsuit within the jurisdiction of the tribunal. The Kp.
According to paragraph (6) of § 39, the submission of a claim is an administrative act
does not have the effect of postponing its entry into force.

 
The Kp. Paragraph (1) of § 29 and, in view of this, Pp. According to § 604, it is applicable
of 2015 on the general rules of electronic administration and trust services
CCXXII. Act (hereinafter: E-Administration Act.) According to Section 9 (1) point b) the customer
legal representative is obliged to maintain electronic contact.

 
The time and place of submitting the statement of claim is set by Kp. It is defined by § 39, paragraph (1). The
information about a simplified trial and the possibility of a request to hold a hearing a
Cp. It is based on paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77. The amount of the fee for the administrative lawsuit is about the fees
XCIII of 1990 Act (hereinafter: Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. The fee
from the advance payment of the Itv. Paragraph (1) of § 59 and point h) of § 62 (1) exempt it
party initiating the procedure.
 

If the Applicants do not adequately certify the fulfillment of their required obligations, a
The authority considers that their obligation was not fulfilled within the deadline. The Akr. § 132
according to, if the obligee did not comply with the obligation contained in the final decision of the authority, that
can be executed. The Authority's decision in Art. According to § 82, paragraph (1), it becomes final with the communication
becomes The Akr. Pursuant to § 133, the execution - if otherwise by law or government decree
does not have - it is ordered by the decision-making authority. The Akr. Pursuant to § 134, the execution -
if it is a law, government decree or, in the case of municipal authority, a local government decree
does not provide otherwise - it is undertaken by the state tax authority. Infotv. § 60, paragraph (7).
on the basis of a specific act included in the Authority's decision, specified
the decision regarding the obligation to conduct, tolerate or stop
its implementation is undertaken by the Authority.
 
Budapest, 10/18/2021
 
 
 

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi

president

c. professor

 
 

11

