 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

P r e s s e release

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

September 19, 2019

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
711.408.1
 

Delivery service and online bank –

Berlin data protection officer imposes severe fines

 
In August 2019, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
Fines totaling EUR 195,407 including fees against Delivery Hero
Germany GmbH issued. The decision is final.
 
With the fines, the Berlin data protection officer punished various
individual violations of data protection law by the company. The majority of cases involved
Failure to respect the rights of data subjects, such as the right to information about the processing of data
own data, the right to delete the data and the right to object.
 
According to the findings of the Berlin data protection officer, Delivery Hero
Germany GmbH did not delete accounts of former customers in ten cases,
although those affected have not been on for years - in one case even since 2008
the company's delivery service platform had been active. Eight former customers
had also complained about unsolicited advertising emails from the company.
A victim who expressly consents to the use of his data for advertising purposes
had objected, nevertheless received a further 15 advertising e-mails from the delivery service. In
The company granted five other cases to the complainants
Persons do not provide the required self-declaration or only after the Berliner
data protection officer had intervened.
 
The data subject rights of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) are an important one
tools for every individual to enforce fundamental rights
Informational self-determination. The European legislature was at the
Adoption of the General Data Protection Regulation is a major concern that
To strengthen the rights of the citizens concerned. Any company that
processes personal data must therefore be technically and organizationally able
to fulfill corresponding requests of the persons concerned immediately.
 
Delivery Hero Germany GmbH reported some of the violations to the supervisory authority
explained with technical errors or employee mistakes. Because of the high number of
repeated violations, however, were of fundamental, structural
deal with organizational problems. Despite numerous indications from the supervisory authority
no adequate measures have been implemented over a long period of time to
dutiful fulfillment of the rights of those affected.
 
The fines were issued in two notices, since some of the violations occurred after the
entry into force of the GDPR applicable data protection law had to be assessed. Authoritative for

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues
Office: Cristina Vecchi
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 



- 2 -

the question of whether a violation is to be assessed according to the old or new legal situation is that
time of crime.
 
When deciding whether to impose a fine and its amount, the
Berlin data protection officer in each individual case discretionary criteria such as those in Art. 83 para.
2 DS-GVO. In particular, the concrete flowed into the evaluation
circumstances regarding the type, severity and duration of the respective violation. Furthermore, the
Consequences of each violation and the measures taken by those responsible
have been taken into account in order to avert or mitigate the consequences of the violation.
 
On April 1, 2019, the Delivery Hero brands Lieferheld, Pizza.de and foodora vom
taken over by the Dutch group Takeway.com. The procedure
underlying violations were all committed prior to this acquisition. The new
The owner has accepted the fine notices and has not appealed. Opposite of
The supervisory authority stated that Takeaway attaches the greatest importance to compliance with data protection law
to lay. The procedure was taken as an opportunity, the processes again
to check thoroughly.
 
As early as March 2019, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
a first considerable fine according to the standards of the DS-GVO in the amount of 50,000 euros
against the online bank N26. The young company had for the purposes of
money laundering prevention the names of former customers in black
list, regardless of whether they were actually suspected of money laundering.
N26 also accepted the fine and vis-à-vis the Berlin data protection officer
announced a series of measures to address previous organizational shortcomings
eliminate them and thereby improve the protection of their customers' data.
In particular, the company pledged to expand its staff in the area of data protection
increase and train.
 
Overall, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information since the new
Legal situation 27 fines according to the GDPR and two fines according to the new Berlin
enacted data protection law.
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk
"For a long time, the topic of data protection was neglected in many companies,
although it is a particularly important fundamental right in the digital age. The GDPR works
against that. The companies mentioned are willing to process
deficiencies are now evident. I hope these fines spread to others
companies have a warning effect. Who works with personal data,
needs a functioning data protection management system. That not only helps fines too
avoid, but also strengthens the trust and satisfaction of the customers. Donut
For companies that are still in the start-up phase, I recommend our twice
Visit monthly start-up consultation hours to discuss data protection
to clarify questions at an early stage.”
 
 

 

