Guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25

Data Protection by Design and by Default

Version 2.0

Adopted on 20 October 2020

Adopted

1

Version history
Version 1.0

13 November 2019 Adoption of the Guidelines for public consultation

Version 2.0

20 October 2020

Adoption  of  the  Guidelines  by the  EDPB after public
consultation

Adopted

2

Table of contents
1
2

Scope ............................................................................................................................................... 5
Analysis of Article 25(1) and (2) of the GDPR.................................................................................. 5
Article 25(1) of the GDPR: Data protection by design............................................................. 6

2.1

Controller’s obligation to implement appropriate technical and organisational

Designed to implement the data protection principles in an effective manner and

2.1.1
measures and necessary safeguards into the processing ............................................................... 6
2.1.2
protecting data subjects’ rights and freedoms ............................................................................... 6
Elements to take into account ........................................................................................ 7
2.1.3
2.1.4
Time aspect ................................................................................................................... 10
Article 25(2): Data protection by default .............................................................................. 11

2.2

By default, only personal data which are necessary for each specific purpose of the

2.2.1
processing are processed.............................................................................................................. 11
2.2.2
Dimensions of the data minimisation obligation .......................................................... 12
Implementing data protection principles in the processing of personal data using data

3
protection by design and by default ..................................................................................................... 14
Transparency......................................................................................................................... 15
Lawfulness............................................................................................................................. 16
Fairness.................................................................................................................................. 17
Purpose Limitation ................................................................................................................ 19
Data Minimisation................................................................................................................. 21
Accuracy ................................................................................................................................ 23
Storage limitation.................................................................................................................. 25
Integrity and confidentiality.................................................................................................. 26
Accountability........................................................................................................................ 28
Article 25(3) Certification .............................................................................................................. 28
Enforcement of Article 25 and consequences .............................................................................. 29
Recommendations ........................................................................................................................ 29

3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9

4
5
6

Adopted

3

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70 (1e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC], (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES

Executive summary

In an increasingly digital world, adherence to Data Protection by Design and by Default requirements
plays a crucial part in promoting privacy and data protection in society. It is therefore essential that
controllers  take  this  responsibility  seriously  and  implement  the  GDPR  obligations  when  designing
processing operations.

These Guidelines give general guidance on the obligation of Data Protection by Design and by Default
(henceforth “DPbDD”) set forth in Article 25 in the GDPR. DPbDD is an obligation for all controllers,
irrespective of size and varying complexity of processing. To be able to implement the requirements
of DPbDD, it is crucial that the controller understands the data protection principles and the data
subject’s rights and freedoms.

The core obligation is the implementation of appropriate measures and necessary safeguards that
provide effective implementation of the data protection principles and, consequentially, data subjects’
rights and freedoms by design and by default. Article 25 prescribes both design and default elements
that should be taken into account. Those elements, will be further elaborated in these Guidelines.

Article  25(1)  stipulates that  controllers should consider  DPbDD early  on when they plan  a  new
processing operation. Controllers shall implement DPbDD before processing, and also continually at
the  time  of  processing, by regularly  reviewing the  effectiveness  of  the  chosen  measures  and
safeguards. DPbDD also applies to existing systems that are processing personal data.

The Guidelines also contain guidance on how to effectively implement the data protection principles
in Article 5, listing key design and default elements as well as practical cases for illustration. The
controller should consider the appropriateness of the suggested measures in the context of the
particular processing in question.

The EDPB provides recommendations on how controllers, processors and producers can cooperate to
achieve DPbDD. It encourages the controllers in industry, processors, and producers to use DPbDD as
a means to achieve a competitive advantage when marketing their products towards controllers and
data subjects. It also encourages all controllers to make use of certifications and codes of conduct.

Adopted

4

1 SCOPE

1.

2.

3.

4.

The Guidelines focus on controllers’ implementation of DPbDD based on the obligation in Article 25 of
the GDPR.1 Other  actors,  such as  processors  and producers  of  products,  services  and  applications
(henceforth “producers”), who are not directly addressed in Article 25, may also find these Guidelines
useful in creating GDPR compliant products and services that enable controllers to fulfil their data
protection obligations.2 Recital 78 of the GDPR adds that DPbDD should be taken into consideration in
the context of public tenders. Despite all controllers having the duty to integrate DPbDD into their
processing activities, this provision fosters the adoption of the data protection principles, where public
administrations should lead by example. The controller is responsible for the fulfilment of the DPbDD
obligations for  the processing  carried  out by  their  processors and sub-processors,  they should
therefore take this into account when contracting with these parties.

The requirement described in Article 25 is for controllers to have data protection designed into the
processing  of  personal  data and as  a default setting and this applies throughout  the  processing
lifecycle. DPbDD is also a requirement for processing systems pre-existing before the GDPR entered
into force. Controllers must have the processing consistently updated in line with the GDPR. For more
information on how to maintain an existing system in line with DPbDD, see subchapter 2.1.4 of these
Guidelines. The core of the provision is to ensure appropriate and effective data protection both by
design and by default, which means that controllers should be able to demonstrate that they have the
appropriate measures and safeguards in the processing to ensure that the data protection principles
and the rights and freedoms of data subjects are effective.

Chapter 2 of the Guidelines focuses on an interpretation of the requirements set forth by Article 25
and explores the legal obligations introduced by the provision. Examples on how to apply DPbDD in
the context of specific data protection principles are provided in Chapter 3.

The  Guidelines address the  possibility  to  establish  a  certification  mechanism  to  demonstrate
compliance with Article 25 in Chapter 4, as well as how the Article may be enforced by supervisory
authorities in Chapter 5. Finally, the Guidelines provide stakeholders with further recommendations
on how to successfully implement DPbDD. The EDPB recognizes the challenges for small and medium
enterprises (henceforth “SMEs”) to fully comply with the obligations of DPbDD, and provides additional
recommendations specifically to SMEs in Chapter 6.

2 ANALYSIS OF ARTICLE 25(1) AND (2) DATA PROTECTION BY DESIGN

AND BY DEFAULT

5.

The aim of this Chapter is to explore and provide guidance on the requirements to data protection by
design in Article 25(1) and to data protection by default in Article 25(2) respectively. Data protection

1 The interpretations provided herein equally apply to Article 20 of Directive (EU) 2016/680, and Article 27 of
Regulation 2018/1725.
2 Recital 78 GDPR clearly states this need: “When developing, designing, selecting and using applications,
services and products that are based on the processing of personal data or process personal data to fulfil their
task, producers of the products, services and applications should be encouraged to take into account the right
to data protection when developing and designing such products, services and applications and, with due
regard to the “state of the art”, to make sure that controllers and processors are able to fulfil their data
protection obligations”.

Adopted

5

6.

7.

8.

9.

by design and data protection by default are complementary concepts, which mutually reinforce each
other. Data subjects will benefit more from data protection by default if data protection by design is
concurrently implemented – and vice versa.

DPbDD is a requirement for all controllers, including small businesses and multinational companies
alike. That being the case, the complexity of implementing DPbDD may vary based on the individual
processing operation. Regardless of the size however, in all cases, positive benefits for controller and
data subject can be achieved by implementing DPbDD.

2.1 Article 25(1): Data protection by design
2.1.1 Controller’s obligation to implement appropriate technical and organisational

measures and necessary safeguards into the processing

In  line  with  Article  25(1)  the controller  shall  implement appropriate technical  and  organisational
measures which  are  designed  to  implement  the data protection  principles  and to integrate  the
necessary safeguards into the processing in order to meet the requirements and protect the rights and
freedoms of data subjects. Both appropriate measures and necessary safeguards are meant to serve
the same purpose of protecting the rights of data subjects and ensuring that the protection of their
personal data is built into the processing.

Technical and organizational measures and necessary safeguards can be understood in a broad sense
as any method or means that a controller may employ in the processing. Being appropriate means that
the measures and necessary safeguards should be suited to achieve the intended purpose, i.e. they
must implement the data protection principles effectively3. The requirement to appropriateness is thus
closely related to the requirement of effectiveness.

A technical  or  organisational measure and  safeguard can  be  anything  from  the  use  of  advanced
technical solutions to the basic training of personnel. Examples that may be suitable, depending on the
context and risks associated with the processing in question, includes pseudonymization of personal
data4; storing personal data available in a structured, commonly machine readable format; enabling
data subjects to intervene in the processing; providing information about the storage of personal data;
having malware  detection  systems; training  employees  about basic  “cyber  hygiene”; establishing
privacy  and  information  security  management  systems, obligating  processors  contractually  to
implement specific data minimisation practices, etc.

10.

Standards, best practices and codes of conduct that are recognized by associations and other bodies
representing categories of controllers can be helpful in determining appropriate measures. However,
the  controller  must  verify  the  appropriateness  of  the measures  for  the  particular  processing  in
question.

2.1.2 Designed to implement the data protection principles in an effective manner and

protecting data subjects’ rights and freedoms

11.

The data protection principles are in Article 5 (henceforth “the principles”), the data subjects’ rights
and freedoms are the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, and in particular their right
to the protection of personal data, whose protection is named in Article 1(2) as the objective of the

3 “Effectiveness” is addressed below in subchapter 2.1.2.
4 Defined in Article 4(5) GDPR.

Adopted

6

GDPR (henceforth “the  rights”)5.  Their  precise  formulation  can  be found in the  EU  Charter  of
Fundamental Rights. It is essential for the controller to have an understanding of the meaning of the
principles and the rights as the basis for the protection offered by the GDPR, specifically by the DPbDD
obligation.

12. When implementing the appropriate technical and organisational measures, it is with respect to the
effective implementation of each of the aforementioned principles and the ensuing protection of rights
that the measures and safeguards should be designed.
Addressing effectiveness
Effectiveness is at the heart of the concept of data protection by design. The requirement to implement
the principles in an effective manner means that controllers must implement the necessary measures
and  safeguards to  protect  these principles, in  order to  secure the  rights  of  data  subjects. Each
implemented  measure should produce  the  intended  results for  the processing foreseen  by  the
controller. This observation has two consequences.

13.

14.

15.

16.

First,  it  means  that  Article  25  does  not  require  the  implementation  of  any specific technical  and
organizational measures, rather that the chosen measures and safeguards should be specific to the
implementation of data protection principles into the particular processing in question. In doing so,
the measures and safeguards should be designed to be robust and the controller should be able to
implement further measures in order to scale to any increase in risk6. Whether or not measures are
effective will therefore depend on the context of the processing in question and an assessment of
certain elements that should be taken into account when determining the means of processing. The
aforementioned elements will be addressed below in subchapter 2.1.3.

Second, controllers should be able to demonstrate that the principles have been maintained.

The implemented measures  and  safeguards should achieve  the  desired  effect  in  terms  of  data
protection,  and the  controller should have  documentation of the  implemented  technical  and
organizational  measures.7 To  do  so, the  controller  may  determine  appropriate  key  performance
indicators (KPI) to demonstrate the effectiveness. A KPI is a measurable value chosen by the controller
that demonstrates how effectively the controller achieves their data protection objective. KPIs may be
quantitative, such as the percentage of false positives or false negatives, reduction of complaints,
reduction of response time when data subjects exercise their rights; or qualitative, such as evaluations
of performance, use of grading scales, or expert assessments. Alternatively to KPIs, controllers may be
able to demonstrate the effective implementation of the principles by providing the rationale behind
their assessment of the effectiveness of the chosen measures and safeguards.

2.1.3 Elements to take into account

17.

Article 25 (1) lists elements that the  controller  has  to take  into  account when  determining the
measures of a specific processing operation. In the following, we will provide guidance on how to apply

5 See Recital 4 of the GDPR.
6 “Fundamental principles applicable to the controllers (i.e. legitimacy, data minimisation, purpose limitation,
transparency, data integrity, data accuracy) should remain the same, whatever the processing and the risks for
the data subjects. However, due regard to the nature and scope of such processing have always been an integral
part  of  the  application  of  those  principles,  so  that  they  are  inherently  scalable.”  Article  29  Working  Party.
“Statement on the role of a risk-based approach in data protection legal frameworks”. WP 218, 30 May 2014,
p. 3. ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp218_en.pdf
7 See Recitals 74 and 78.

Adopted

7

these elements in the design process, which includes design of the default settings. These elements all
contribute to determine whether a measure is appropriate to effectively implement the principles.
Thus, each of these elements is not a goal in and of themselves, but are factors to be considered
together to reach the objective.

2.1.3.1

“state of the art”

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

The concept of “state of the art” is present in various EU acquis, e.g. environmental protection and
product safety. In the GDPR, reference to the “state of the art”8 is made not only in Article 32, for
security  measures,910 but  also  in  Article  25,  thus  extending  this  benchmark  to  all  technical  and
organisational measures embedded in the processing.

In the context of Article 25, the reference to “state of the art” imposes an obligation on controllers,
when  determining  the  appropriate technical and  organisational measures, to take  account  of  the
current progress in technology that is available in the market. The requirement is for controllers to
have knowledge of, and stay up to date on technological advances; how technology can present data
protection risks or opportunities to the processing operation; and how to implement and update the
measures and safeguards that secure effective implementation of the principles and rights of data
subjects taking into account the evolving technological landscape.

The “state of the art” is a dynamic concept that cannot be statically defined at a fixed point in time,
but should be  assessed continuously in  the  context  of technological  progress.  In  the  face  of
technological advancements, a controller could find that a measure that once provided an adequate
level of protection no longer does. Neglecting to keep up to date with technological changes could
therefore result in a lack of compliance with Article 25.

The  “state  of  the  art”  criterion  does  not  only  apply  to  technological  measures,  but  also  to
organisational  ones.  Lack  of  appropriate organisational  measures  can  lower  or  even  completely
undermine the effectiveness of a chosen technology. Examples of organisational measures can be
adoption of internal policies; up-to date training on technology, security and data protection; and IT
security governance and management policies.

Existing and recognized frameworks, standards, certifications, codes of conduct, etc. in different fields
may play a role in indicating the current “state of the art” within the given field of use. Where such
standards exist and provide a high level of protection for the data subject in compliance with – or go
beyond – legal  requirements,  controllers  should  take  them into  account  in  the  design  and
implementation of data protection measures.

2.1.3.2

“cost of implementation”

23.

The  controller may take  the  cost  of  implementation into  account  when  choosing  and  applying
appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  and  necessary  safeguards  that  effectively

8 See German Federal Constitutional Court’s “Kalkar” decision in 1978:
https://germanlawarchive.iuscomp.org/?p=67 may provide the foundation for a methodology for an objective
definition of the concept. On that basis, the “state of the art” technology level would be identified between the
“existing scientific knowledge and research” technology level and the more established “generally accepted
rules of technology”. The “state of the art” can hence be identified as the technology level of a service or
technology or product that exists in the market and is most effective in achieving the objectives identified.
9 https://www.enisa.europa.eu/news/enisa-news/what-is-state-of-the-art-in-it-security
10 www.teletrust.de/en/publikationen/broschueren/state-of-the-art-in-it-security/

Adopted

8

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

implement the principles in order to protect the rights of data subjects. The cost refers to resources in
general, including time and human resources.

The cost element does not require the controller to spend a disproportionate amount of resources
when  alternative,  less resource  demanding,  yet  effective  measures  exist.  However,  the  cost  of
implementation is a factor to be considered to implement data protection by design rather than a
ground to not implement it.

Thus, the chosen measures shall ensure that the processing activity foreseen by the controller does
not process personal data in violation of the principles, independent of cost. Controllers should be able
to manage  the overall costs  to  be  able  to  effectively  implement  all  of  the  principles  and,
consequentially, protect the rights.

2.1.3.3

“nature, scope, context and purpose of processing“

Controllers must take into consideration the nature, scope, context and purpose of processing when
determining needed measures.

These factors should be interpreted consistently with their role in other provisions of the GDPR, such
as Articles 24, 32 and 35, with the aim of designing data protection principles into the processing.

In short, the concept of nature can be understood as the inherent11 characteristics of the processing.
The scope refers to the size and range of the processing. The context relates to the circumstances of
the processing, which may influence the expectations of the data subject, while the purpose pertains
to the aims of the processing.

2.1.3.4

“risks of varying likelihood and severity for rights and freedoms of natural persons posed by
the processing”

The GDPR adopts a coherent risk based approach in many of its provisions, in Articles 24, 25, 32 and
35, with a view to identifying appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect individuals,
their personal data and complying with the requirements of the GDPR. The assets to protect are always
the  same  (the  individuals,  via  the  protection  of  their  personal  data),  against  the  same  risks  (to
individuals’ rights), taking into account the same conditions (nature, scope, context and purposes of
processing).

30. When performing the risk analysis for compliance with Articles 25, the controller has to identify the
risks to the rights of data subjects that a violation of the principles presents, and determine their
likelihood and severity in order to implement measures to effectively mitigate the identified risks. A
systematic  and thorough evaluation  of  the  processing is  crucial when doing  risk  assessments. For
example, a controller assesses the particular risks associated with a lack of freely given consent, which
constitutes a violation of the lawfulness principle, in the course of the processing of personal data of
children and young people under 18 as a vulnerable group, in a case where no other legal ground
exists, and implements appropriate measures to address and effectively mitigate the identified risks
associated with this group of data subjects.

11 Examples are special categories personal data, automatic decision-making, skewed power relations,
unpredictable processing, difficulties for the data subject to exercise the rights, etc.

Adopted

9

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

36.

The “EDPB Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA)”,12 which focus on determining
whether a processing operation is likely to result in a high risk to the data subject or not, also provide
guidance  on  how  to  assess  data  protection  risks  and  how  to  carry  out  a data  protection risk
assessment.  These  Guidelines  may  also  be  useful  during  the  risk  assessment  in  all  the articles
mentioned above, including Article 25.

The risk based approach does not exclude the use of baselines, best practices and standards. These
might provide a useful toolbox for controllers to tackle similar risks in similar situations (nature, scope,
context and purpose of processing). Nevertheless, the obligation in Article 25 (as well as Articles 24,
32 and 35(7)(c)) to take into account “risks of varying likelihood and severity for rights and freedoms
of natural persons posed by the processing” remains. Therefore, controllers, although supported by
such tools, must always carry out a data protection risk assessment on a case by case basis for the
processing activity at hand and verify the effectiveness of the appropriate measures and safeguards
proposed. A DPIA, or an update to an existing DPIA, may then additionally be required.

2.1.4 Time aspect
2.1.4.1

At the time of the determination of the means for processing

Data  protection  by  design shall be  implemented  “at  the  time  of  determination  of  the  means  for
processing”.

The “means for processing” range from the general to the detailed design elements of the processing,
including the architecture, procedures, protocols, layout and appearance.

The  “time  of  determination of  the  means  for  processing” refers  to  the  period  of  time  when  the
controller is deciding how the processing will be conducted and the manner in which the processing
will occur and the mechanisms which will be used to conduct such processing. It’s in the process of
making such decisions that the controller must assess the appropriate measures and safeguards to
effectively implement the principles and rights of data subjects into the processing, and take into
account elements such as the state of the art, cost of implementation, nature, scope, context and
purpose, and risks. This includes the time of procuring and implementing data processing software,
hardware, and services.

Early consideration of DPbDD is crucial for a successful implementation of the principles and protection
of the rights of the data subjects. Moreover, from a cost-benefit perspective, it is also in controllers’
interest to take DPbDD into account sooner rather than later, as it could be challenging and costly to
make later changes to plans that have already been made and processing operations that have already
been designed.

2.1.4.2

At the time of the processing itself (maintenance and review of data protection requirements)

37. Once the processing has started the controller has a continued obligation to maintain DPbDD, i.e. the
continued effective implementation of the principles in order to protect the rights, staying up to date
on the state of the art, reassessing the level of risk, etc. The nature, scope and context of processing
operations,  as  well  as  the  risk may change over  the  course  of  processing,  which means  that  the

12 Article 29 Working Party “Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether
processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679”. WP 248 rev.01, 4
October 2017. ec.europa.eu/newsroom/document.cfm?doc_id=47711 - endorsed by the EDPB.

Adopted

10

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

controller must re-evaluate their processing operations through regular reviews and assessments of
the effectiveness of their chosen measures and safeguards.

The obligation to maintain, review and update, as necessary, the processing operation also applies to
pre-existing systems. This means that legacy systems designed before the GDPR entered into force are
required  to  undergo  reviews  and  maintenance  to  ensure  the  implementation  of  measures  and
safeguards that implement the principles and rights of data subjects in an effective manner, as outlined
in these Guidelines.

This obligation also extends to any processing carried out by means of data processors. Processors’
operations should be regularly reviewed and assessed by the controllers to ensure that they enable
continuous compliance with the principles and allow the data controller to fulfil its obligations in this
respect.

2.2 Article 25(2): Data protection by default
2.2.1 By default, only personal data which are necessary for each specific purpose of the

processing are processed

A “default”, as commonly defined in computer science, refers to the pre-existing or preselected value
of a configurable setting that is assigned to a software application, computer program or device. Such
settings are also called “presets” or “factory presets”, especially for electronic devices.

Hence, the  term “by  default” when  processing  personal  data, refers  to making choices  regarding
configuration values or processing options that are set or prescribed in a processing system, such as a
software application, service or device, or a manual processing procedure that affect the amount of
personal  data  collected,  the  extent  of  their  processing,  the  period  of  their  storage  and  their
accessibility.

The controller should choose and be accountable for implementing default processing settings and
options in a way that only processing that is strictly necessary to achieve the set, lawful purpose is
carried  out  by  default. Here,  controllers should rely on  their  assessment  of  the  necessity  of  the
processing with regards to the legal grounds of Article 6(1). This means that by default, the controller
shall not collect more data than is necessary, they shall not process the data collected more than is
necessary  for  their  purposes,  nor shall they  store  the  data  for  longer  than  necessary. The  basic
requirement is that data protection is built into the processing by default.

The controller is required to predetermine for which specified, explicit and legitimate purposes the
personal data is collected and processed.13 The measures must by default be appropriate to ensure
that  only  personal  data  which  are  necessary  for  each  specific  purpose of  processing  are  being
processed. The EDPS “Guidelines to assess necessity and proportionality of measures that limit the

13 Art. 5(1)(b), (c), (d), (e) GDPR.

Adopted

11

44.

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

right to data protection of personal data” can be useful also to decide which data is necessary to
process in order to achieve a specific purpose.14 15 16

If the controller uses third party software or off-the-shelf software, the controller should carry out a
risk assessment of the product and make sure that functions that do not have a legal basis or are not
compatible with the intended purposes of processing are switched off.

The same considerations apply to organisational measures supporting processing operations. They
should be designed to process, at the outset, only the minimum amount of personal data necessary
for the specific operations. This should be particularly considered when allocating data access to staff
with different roles and different access needs.
Appropriate “technical and organisational measures” in the context of data protection by default is
thus understood in the same way as discussed above in subchapter 2.1.1, but applied specifically to
implementing the principle of data minimisation.

The aforementioned obligation to only process personal data which are necessary for each specific
purpose applies to the following elements.

2.2.2 Dimensions of the data minimisation obligation

Article 25 (2) lists the dimensions of the data minimisation obligation for default processing, by stating
that the obligation applies to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of their processing,
the period of their storage and their accessibility.

2.2.2.1

“amount of personal data collected”

Controllers should consider both the volume of personal data, as well as the types, categories and level
of detail of personal data required for the processing purposes. Their design choices should take into
account the increased risks to the principles of integrity and confidentiality, data minimisation and
storage limitation when collecting large amounts of detailed personal data, and compare it to the
reduction  in risks when collecting smaller  amounts  and/or less  detailed  information about  data
subjects.  In  any  case,  the default setting shall not  include  collection  of  personal  data  that  is  not
necessary for the specific processing purpose. In other words, if certain categories of personal data are
unnecessary or if detailed data isn’t needed because less granular data is sufficient, then any surplus
personal data shall not be collected.

50.

The same default requirements apply to services independent of what platform or device in use, only
the necessary personal data for the given purpose can be collected.

14 EDPS. “Guidelines on assessing the necessity and proportionality of measures that limit the right to data
protection”. 25 February 2019. edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/19-02-
25_proportionality_guidelines_en.pdf
15 See also EDPS. “Assessing the necessity of measures that limit the fundamental right to the protection of
personal data: A Toolkit” https://edps.europa.eu/data-protection/our-work/publications/papers/necessity-
toolkit_en
16 For more information on necessity, see Article 29 Working Party. “Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of
legitimate interests of the data controller under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC”. WP 217, 9 April 2014.
ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp217_en.pdf

Adopted

12

2.2.2.2

“the extent of their processing”

51.

Processing17 operations  performed  on  personal  data shall be  limited  to  what  is  necessary. Many
processing operations may contribute to a processing purpose. Nevertheless, the fact that certain
personal data is necessary to fulfil a purpose does not mean that all types of, and frequencies of,
processing operations may be carried out on the data. Controllers should also be careful not to extend
the boundaries of “compatible purposes” of Article 6(4), and have in mind what processing will be
within the reasonable expectations of data subjects.

2.2.2.3

“the period of their storage”

52. Personal data collected shall not be stored if it is not necessary for the purpose of the processing and
there is no other compatible purpose and legal ground according to Article 6(4). Any retention should
be objectively justifiable as necessary by the data controller in accordance with the accountability
principle.

53. The controller shall limit the retention period to what is necessary for the purpose. If personal data is
no  longer  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  the  processing,  then  it  shall  by  default  be  deleted  or
anonymized. The  length  of  the  period  of  retention  will  therefore  depend  on  the  purpose  of  the
processing in question. This obligation is directly related to the principle of storage limitation in Article
5(1)(e), and shall be implemented by default, i.e. the controller should have systematic procedures for
data deletion or anonymization embedded in the processing.

54. Anonymization18 of personal data is an alternative to deletion, provided that all the relevant contextual
elements are taken into account and the likelihood and severity of the risk, including the risk of re-
identification, are regularly assessed.19

2.2.2.4

“their accessibility”

55.

56.

The controller should limit who has access and which types of access to personal data based on an
assessment of necessity, and also make sure that personal data is in fact accessible to those who need
it when necessary, for example in critical situations. Access controls should be observed for the whole
data flow during the processing.

Article 25(2) further states that personal data shall not be made accessible, without the individual’s
intervention,  to  an  indefinite  number  of  natural  persons.  The  controller shall by  default  limit
accessibility  and give  the  data  subject  the  possibility  to  intervene before  publishing  or  otherwise
making available personal data about the data subject to an indefinite number of natural persons.

57. Making  personal data  available  to  an  indefinite  number  of  persons  may  result  in  even  further
dissemination of the data than initially intended. This is particularly relevant in the context of the
Internet  and  search  engines. This  means  that  controllers should by  default  give  data  subjects  an

17 According to Art. 4(2) GDPR, this includes collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation
or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making
available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.
18 Article 29 Working Party. “Opinion 05/2014 on Anonymisation Techniques”. WP 216, 10 April 2014.
ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp216_en.pdf
19 Please see Art. 4(1) GDPR, Recital 26 GDPR, Article 29 Working Party “Opinion 05/2014 on Anonymisation
Techniques”. Please also see the subsection on "storage limitation" in section 3 of this document, referring to
the need for the controller to ensure the effectiveness of the implemented anonymisation technique(s).

Adopted

13

58.

59.

60.

61.

opportunity  to  intervene  before  personal  data  is  made  available  on  the  open  Internet. This  is
particularly important when it comes to children and vulnerable groups.

Depending on the legal grounds for processing, the opportunity to intervene could vary based on the
context  of  the  processing.  For  example, to  ask  for  consent  to  make  the  personal  data  publicly
accessible, or to have privacy settings so that data subjects themselves can control public access.

Even in the event that personal data is made available publicly with the permission and understanding
of a data subject, it does not mean that any other controller with access to the personal data may
freely process it themselves for their own purposes – they must have their own legal basis.20

3 IMPLEMENTING DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES IN THE

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA USING DATA PROTECTION BY
DESIGN AND BY DEFAULT

In  all  stages  of  design  of  the  processing  activities,  including procurement, tenders,  outsourcing,
development, support, maintenance, testing, storage, deletion, etc., the controller should take into
account and consider the various elements of DPbDD which will be illustrated by examples in this
chapter in the context of implementation of the principles.21 22 23

Controllers need  to  implement  the  principles  to  achieve DPbDD.  These  principles  include:
transparency, lawfulness, fairness, purpose limitation, data minimisation, accuracy, storage limitation,
integrity and confidentiality, and accountability. These principles are outlined in Article 5 and Recital
39 of the GDPR. To have a complete understanding of how to implement DPbDD, the importance of
understanding the meaning of each of the principles is emphasised.

62. When  presenting  examples  of  how  to  operationalize DPbDD we  have  made  lists  of key DPbDD
elements for  each  of  the principles. The  examples,  while  highlighting  the  specific  data  protection
principle in question, may overlap with other closely related principles as well. The EDPB underlines
that the key elements and the examples presented hereunder are neither exhaustive nor binding, but
are meant as guiding elements for each of the principles. Controllers need to assess how to guarantee
compliance with the principles in the context of the concrete processing operation in question.

63. While  this  section  focuses  on  the  implementation  of  the  principles,  the  controller  should  also
implement appropriate and effective ways to protect data subjects’ rights, also according to Chapter
III in the GDPR where this is not already mandated by the principles themselves.

64.

The accountability principle is overarching: it requires the controller to be responsible choosing the
necessary technical and organisational measures.

20 See Case of Satakunnan Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland no. 931/13.
21 More examples can be found in Norwegian Data Protection Authority. “Software Development with Data
Protection by Design and by Default”. 28 November 2017. www.datatilsynet.no/en/about-
privacy/virksomhetenes-plikter/innebygd-personvern/data-protection-by-design-and-by-default/?id=7729
22 https://www.cnil.fr/en/cnil-publishes-gdpr-guide-developers
23 https://www.aepd.es/sites/default/files/2019-12/guia-privacidad-desde-diseno_en.pdf

Adopted

14

3.1 Transparency24

65.

The controller must be clear and open with the data subject about how they will collect, use and share
personal data. Transparency is about enabling data subjects to understand, and if necessary, make use
of their rights in Articles 15 to 22. The principle is embedded in Articles 12, 13, 14 and 34. Measures
and  safeguards  put  in  place  to  support  the  principle  of  transparency  should  also  support  the
implementation of these Articles.

66.

Key design and default elements for the principle of transparency may include:

Clarity – Information shall be in clear and plain language, concise and intelligible.
Semantics – Communication should have a clear meaning to the audience in question.
Accessibility - Information shall be easily accessible for the data subject.
Contextual – Information should be provided at the relevant time and in the appropriate form.
Relevance – Information should be relevant and applicable to the specific data subject.






 Universal design – Information shall be accessible to all data subjects, include use of machine

readable languages to facilitate and automate readability and clarity.
Comprehensible – Data subjects should have a fair understanding of what they can expect with
regards  to  the  processing  of their personal data,  particularly when the  data subjects  are
children or other vulnerable groups.

 Multi-channel – Information should be provided in different channels and media, not only the

textual, to increase the probability for the information to effectively reach the data subject.
Layered – The information should be layered in a manner that resolves the tension between
completeness  and  understanding,  while  accounting 
for  data  subjects’  reasonable
expectations.





Example25

A controller is designing a privacy policy on their website in order to comply with the requirements of
transparency. The privacy policy should not contain a lengthy bulk of information that is difficult for
the average data subject to penetrate and understand. It shall be written in clear and concise language
and make it easy for the user of the website to understand how their personal data is processed. The
controller therefore provides information in a layered manner, where the most important points are
highlighted. More detailed information is made easily available. Drop-down menus and links to other
pages are provided to further explain the various items, and concepts used in the policy. The controller
also makes sure that the information is provided in a multi-channel manner, providing video clips to
explain the most important points of the written information. Synergy between the various pages is
vital to ensure that the layered approach does not heighten confusion, rather reduce it.

The privacy policy should not be difficult for data subjects to access. The privacy policy is thus made
available and visible on all web-pages of the site in question, so that the data subject is always only
one click  away  from  accessing  the  information.  The  information  provided  is  also  designed  in
accordance with the best practices and standards of universal design to make it accessible to all.

24 Elaboration on how to understand the concept of transparency can be found in Article 29 Working Party.
“Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679”. WP 260 rev.01, 11 April 2018.
ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/document.cfm?action=display&doc_id=51025 - endorsed by the EDPB
25 The French Data Protection Authority has published several examples illustrating best practices in informing
users as well as other transparency principles: https://design.cnil.fr/en/.

Adopted

15

67.

68.

Moreover, necessary information should also be provided in the right context, at the appropriate time.
Since the controller carries out many processing operations using the data collected on the website, a
general privacy policy on the website alone is not sufficient for the controller to meet the requirements
of transparency. The controller therefore designs an information flow, presenting the data subject with
relevant information within the appropriate contexts using e.g. informational snippets or pop-ups. For
example, when asking the data subject to enter personal data, the controller informs the data subject
of how the personal data will be processed and why that personal data is necessary for the processing.

3.2 Lawfulness

The  controller must identify  a valid  legal  basis  for the  processing  of  personal data. Measures  and
safeguards should support the requirement to make sure that the whole processing lifecycle is in line
with the relevant legal grounds of processing.

Key design and default elements for lawfulness may include:

Relevance – The correct legal basis shall be applied to the processing.


 Differentiation26 – The legal basis used for each processing activity shall be differentiated.


Specified purpose – The  appropriate  legal basis must  be  clearly  connected  to the specific
purpose of processing.27

 Necessity– Processing must be necessary and unconditional for the purpose to be lawful.


Autonomy – The data subject should be granted the highest degree of autonomy as possible
with respect to control over personal data within the frames of the legal basis.

 Gaining  consent – consent  must  be  freely  given,  specific,  informed  and  unambiguous.28
Particular  consideration  should  be  given  to  the  capacity  of  children  and  young  people  to
provide informed consent.
Consent withdrawal – Where  consent  is  the  legal  basis,  the  processing should facilitate
withdrawal of consent. Withdrawal shall be as easy as giving consent. If not, then the consent
mechanism of the controller does not comply with the GDPR.29
Balancing of interests – Where legitimate interests is the legal basis, the controller must carry
out a weighted balancing of interest, giving particular consideration to the power imbalance,
specifically children under the age of 18 and other vulnerable groups. There shall be measures
and safeguards to mitigate the negative impact on the data subjects.
Predetermination – The legal basis shall be established before the processing takes place.
Cessation – If the legal basis ceases to apply, the processing shall cease accordingly.
Adjust – If there is a valid change of legal basis for the processing, the actual processing must
be adjusted in accordance with the new legal basis.30









26 EDPB. “Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context of the
provision of online services to data subjects”. Version 2.0, 8 October 2019.
edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines-art_6-1-b-
adopted_after_public_consultation_en.pdf
27 See section on purpose limitation below.
28 See Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679. https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-052020-consent-under-regulation-2016679_en
29 See Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, p. 24. https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-
tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-052020-consent-under-regulation-2016679_en
30 If the original legal basis is consent, see Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679.
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-052020-consent-under-
regulation-2016679_en

Adopted

16

 Allocation  of  responsibility – Whenever  joint  controllership  is envisaged,  the  parties  must
apportion in a clear and transparent way their respective responsibilities vis-à-vis the data
subject, and design the measures of the processing in accordance with this allocation.

Example

A bank plans to offer a service to improve efficiency in the management of loan applications. The idea
behind the service is that the bank, by requesting permission from the customer, is able to retrieve
data about the  customer directly from the public tax authorities. This example  does  not  consider
processing of personal data from other sources.

Obtaining personal data about the data subject’s financial situation is necessary in order to take steps
at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a loan contract.31 However, gathering personal
data directly from the tax administration is not considered necessary, because the customer is able to
enter into a contract by providing the information from the tax administration him or herself. Although
the  bank  may  have  a  legitimate  interest  in  acquiring  the  documentation  from  the  tax  authorities
directly, for example to ensure efficiency in the loan processing, giving banks such direct access to the
personal data of applicants presents a risks related to the use or potential misuse of access rights

When implementing the principle of lawfulness, the controller realizes that in this context, they cannot
use the “necessary for contract” basis for the part of the processing that involves gathering personal
data directly from the tax authorities. The fact that this specific processing presents a risk of the data
subject becoming less involved in the processing of their data is also a relevant factor in assessing the
lawfulness of the processing itself. The bank concludes that this part of the processing has to rely on
another legal basis of processing. In the particular Member State where the controller is located, there
are national laws that permits the bank to gather information from the public tax authorities directly,
where the data subject consents to this beforehand.

The bank therefore presents information about the processing on the online application platform in
such a manner that makes it easy for data subjects to understand what processing is mandatory and
what is optional. The processing options, by default, do not allow retrieval of data directly from other
sources than the data subject herself, and the option for direct information retrieval is presented in a
manner that does not deter the data subject from abstaining. Any consent given to collect data directly
from other controllers is a temporary right of access to a specific set of information.

Any  given consent is processed  electronically  in  a documentable manner, and  data  subjects  are
presented with an easy way of controlling what they have consented to and to withdraw their consent.

The controller has assessed these DPbDD requirements beforehand and includes all of these criteria
in their requirements specification for the tender to procure the platform. The controller is aware that
if they do not include the DPbDD requirements in the tender, it may either be too late or a very costly
process to implement data protection afterwards.

3.3 Fairness

69.

Fairness is an overarching principle which requires that personal data should not be processed in a way
that  is unjustifiably detrimental, unlawfully discriminatory, unexpected  or  misleading  to  the  data

31 See Article 6(1)(b) GDPR.

Adopted

17

subject. Measures and safeguards implementing the principle of fairness also support the rights and
freedoms of data subjects, specifically the right to information (transparency), the right to intervene
(access, erasure, data portability, rectify) and the right to limit the processing (right not to be subject
to automated individual decision-making and non-discrimination of data subjects in such processes).

70.

Key design and default fairness elements may include:





Autonomy – Data subjects should be granted the highest degree of autonomy possible to
determine the use made of their personal data, as well as over the scope and conditions of
that use or processing.
Interaction – Data subjects must be able to communicate and exercise their rights in respect
of the personal data processed by the controller.
Expectation – Processing should correspond with data subjects’ reasonable expectations.

 Non-discrimination – The controller shall not unfairly discriminate against data subjects.
 Non-exploitation – The controller should not  exploit  the  needs  or  vulnerabilities  of  data

subjects.
Consumer choice – The  controller  should  not  “lock  in”  their  users in  an  unfair  manner.
Whenever a service processing personal data is proprietary, it may create a lock-in to the
service, which may not be fair, if it impairs the data subjects’ possibility to exercise their right
of data portability in accordance with Article 20.
Power  balance – Power  balance should be  a  key  objective  of  the  controller-data  subject
relationship. Power imbalances should be avoided. When this is not possible, they should be
recognised and accounted for with suitable countermeasures.

 No  risk  transfer – Controllers  should not  transfer  the  risks  of  the  enterprise  to  the  data

subjects.

 No deception – Data processing information and options should be provided in an objective

and neutral way, avoiding any deceptive or manipulative language or design.
Respect  rights – The  controller  must  respect the  fundamental  rights  of  data  subjects  and
implement appropriate  measures  and  safeguards and  not  impinge  on  those  rights  unless
expressly justified by law.
Ethical – The controller should see the processing’s wider impact on individuals’ rights and
dignity.
Truthful – The controller must make available information about how they process personal
data, they should act as they declare they will and not mislead the data subjects.













 Human intervention – The controller must incorporate qualified human intervention that is
capable of uncovering biases that machines may create in accordance with the right to not be
subject to automated individual decision making in Article 22.32
Fair algorithms – Regularly assess whether algorithms are functioning in line with the purposes
and adjust the algorithms to mitigate uncovered biases and ensure fairness in the processing.
Data subjects should be informed about the functioning of the processing of personal data
based on algorithms that analyse or make predictions about them, such as work performance,
economic  situation,  health,  personal  preferences,  reliability  or  behaviour,  location  or
movements.33

32 See Guidelines on Automated individual decision-making and Profiling for the purposes of Regulation
2016/679. https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/document.cfm?action=display&doc_id=49826
33 See Recital 71 GDPR.

Adopted

18

Example 1

A  controller  operates  a  search  engine  that processes  mostly  user-generated  personal  data.  The
controller benefits from having large amounts of personal data and being able to use that personal
data for targeted advertisements. The controller therefore wishes to influence data subjects to allow
more extensive collection and use of their personal data. Consent is to be collected by presenting
processing options to the data subject.

When implementing the fairness principle, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purpose
of the processing, the controller realizes that they cannot present the options in a way that nudges the
data subject in the direction of allowing the controller to collect more personal data than if the options
were presented in an equal and neutral way. This means that they cannot present the processing
options in such a manner that makes it difficult for data subjects to abstain from sharing their data, or
make it difficult for the data subjects to adjust their privacy settings and limit the processing. These
are examples of dark patterns, which are contrary to the spirit of Article 25. The default options for
the processing should not be invasive, and the choice for further processing should be presented in a
manner that does not pressure the data subject to give consent. Therefore, the controller presents
the  options  to  consent or  abstain as  two  equally  visible  choices, accurately  representing  the
ramifications of each choice to the data subject.

Example 2

Another controller processes personal data for the provision of a streaming service where users may
choose between a regular subscription of standard quality and a premium subscription with higher
quality. As part of the premium subscription, subscribers get prioritized customer service.

With regard to the fairness principle, the prioritized customer service granted to premium subscribers
cannot  discriminate the  regular  subscribers’ access  to  exercise  their rights  according  to the GDPR
Article 12. This means that although the premium subscribers get prioritized service, such prioritization
cannot result in a lack of appropriate measures to respond to request from regular subscribers without
undue delay and in any event within one month of receipt of the requests.

Prioritized  customers  may  pay  to  get  better  service, but  all  data  subjects  shall  have  equal  and
indiscriminate access to enforce their rights and freedoms as required under Article 12.

3.4 Purpose Limitation34

71.

The controller must collect data for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes, and not further process
the data in a manner that is incompatible with the purposes for which they were collected.35 The design
of the processing should therefore be shaped by what is necessary to achieve the purposes. If any

34 The Article 29 Working Party provided guidance for the understanding of the principle of purpose limitation
under Directive 95/46/EC. Although the Opinion is not adopted by the EDBP, it may still be relevant as the
wording of the principle is the same under the GDPR. Article 29 Working Party. “Opinion 03/2013 on purpose
limitation”. WP 203, 2 April 2013. ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-
recommendation/files/2013/wp203_en.pdf
35 Art. 5(1)(b) GDPR.

Adopted

19

further processing is to take place, the controller must first make sure that this processing has purposes
compatible with the original ones and design such processing accordingly. Whether a new purpose is
compatible or not, shall be assessed according to the criteria in Article 6(4).

72.

Key design and default purpose limitation elements may include:







Predetermination – The  legitimate  purposes shall be  determined  before the  design of the
processing.
Specificity – The  purposes shall be specified  and  explicit  as  to why  personal data  is being
processed.
Purpose orientation – The purpose of processing should guide the design of the processing
and set processing boundaries.

 Necessity – The purpose determines what personal data is necessary for the processing.


Compatibility – Any new purpose must be compatible with the original purpose for which the
data was collected and guide relevant changes in design.
Limit further processing – The controller should not connect datasets or perform any further
processing for new incompatible purposes.
Limitations of reuse – The controller should use technical measures, including hashing and
encryption, to limit the possibility of repurposing personal data. The controller should also
have organisational measures, such as policies and contractual obligations, which limit reuse
of personal data.
Review – The controller should regularly review whether the processing is necessary for the
purposes for which the data was collected and test the design against purpose limitation.







Example

The controller processes personal data about its customers. The purpose of the processing is to fulfil a
contract, i.e. to be able to deliver goods to the correct address and obtain payment. The personal data
stored is the purchase history, name, address, e-mail address and telephone number.

The controller is considering buying a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) product that gathers
all the customer data about sales, marketing and customer service in one place. The product gives the
opportunity of storing all phone calls, activities, documents, emails and marketing campaigns to get a
360-degree  view  of  the  customer. Moreover, the  CRM is  capable  of automatically  analysing the
customers’ purchasing power by using public information. The purpose of the analysis is to better
target advertising activities. Those activities do not form part of the original lawful purpose of the
processing.

To be in line with the principle of purpose limitation, the controller requires the provider of the product
to map the different processing activities that use personal data to the purposes relevant for the
controller.

After receiving the results of the mapping, the controller assesses whether the new marketing purpose
and the targeted advertisement purpose are compatible with the original purposes defined when the
data was collected, and whether there is a sufficient legal basis for the respective processing. If the
assessment does not return a positive answer, the controller shall not proceed to use the respective
functionalities. Alternatively, the controller could choose to forego the assessment and simply not
make use of the described functionalities of the product.

Adopted

20

3.5 Data Minimisation

73. Only personal data that is adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purpose shall be
processed.36 As  a  result,  the  controller has  to predetermine  which features and  parameters  of
processing systems and their supporting functions are permissible. Data minimisation substantiates
and  operationalises  the  principle  of  necessity.  In  the  further  processing,  the  controller  should
periodically consider whether processed personal data is still adequate, relevant and necessary, or if
the data shall be deleted or anonymized.

74.

Controllers should first of all determine whether they even need to process personal data for their
relevant purposes. The controller should verify whether the relevant purposes can be achieved by
processing less personal data, or having less detailed or aggregated personal data or without having
to process personal data at all37. Such verification should take place before any processing takes place,
but could also be carried out at any point during the processing lifecycle. This is also consistent with
Article 11.

75. Minimising can also refer to the degree of identification. If the purpose of the processing does not
require the final set of data to refer to an identified or identifiable individual (such as in statistics), but
the initial processing does (e.g. before data aggregation), then the controller shall delete or anonymize
personal data as soon as identification is no longer needed. Or, if continued identification is needed
for other processing activities, personal data should be pseudonymized to mitigate risks for the data
subjects’ rights.

76.

Key design and default data minimisation elements may include:

 Data  avoidance – Avoid  processing  personal  data altogether when  this  is  possible for  the

relevant purpose.
Limitation – Limit the amount of personal data collected to what is necessary for the purpose
Access limitation – Shape the data processing in a way that a minimal number of people need
access to personal data to perform their duties, and limit access accordingly.
Relevance – Personal data should be relevant to the processing in question, and the controller
should be able to demonstrate this relevance.

 Necessity – Each personal data category shall be necessary for the specified purposes and

should only be processed if it is not possible to fulfil the purpose by other means.
Aggregation – Use aggregated data when possible.
Pseudonymization – Pseudonymize personal data as soon as it is no longer necessary to have
directly identifiable personal data, and store identification keys separately.
Anonymization and deletion – Where personal data is not, or no longer necessary for the
purpose, personal data shall be anonymized or deleted.

 Data flow – The data flow should be made efficient enough to not create more copies than

necessary.
“State of the art” – The controller should apply up to date and appropriate technologies for
data avoidance and minimisation.













36 Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR.
37 Recital 39 GDPR so states: “...Personal data should be processed only if the purpose of the processing could
not reasonably be fulfilled by other means.”

Adopted

21

Example 1

A bookshop wants to add to their revenue by selling their books online. The bookshop owner wants to
set  up  a  standardised  form for  the  ordering  process. To ensure customers  fill  out  all  the wanted
information the bookshop owner makes all of the fields in the form mandatory (if you don’t fill out all
the fields the customer can’t place the order). The webshop owner initially uses a standard contact
form, which asks information including the customer’s date of birth, phone number and home address.
However, not all the fields in the form are necessary for the purpose of buying and delivering the
books. In this particular case, if the data subject pays for the product up front, the data subject’s date
of birth and phone number are not necessary for the purchase of the product. This means that these
cannot  be required  fields in  the  web  form  to  order  the  product,  unless  the  controller  can clearly
demonstrate that it is otherwise necessary, and why the fields are necessary. Moreover, there are
situations where an address will not be necessary. For example, when ordering an eBook the customer
can download the product directly to their device.

The webshop owner therefore decides to make two web forms: one for ordering books, with a field
for the customer’s address and one web form for ordering eBooks without a field for the customer’s
address.

Example 2

A public transportation company wishes to gather statistical information based on travellers’ routes.
This is useful for the purposes of making proper choices on changes in public transport schedules and
proper routings of the trains. The passengers have to pass their ticket through a reader every time they
enter or exit a means of transport. Having carried out a risk assessment related to the rights and
freedoms  of  passengers’  regarding  the  collection  of  passengers’  travel  routes,  the  controller
establishes that it is possible to identify the passengers in circumstances where they live or work in
scarcely populated areas, based on single route identification thanks to the ticket identifier. Therefore,
since it is not necessary for the purpose of optimizing the public transport schedules and routings of
the trains, the controller does not store the ticket identifier. Once the trip is over, the controller only
stores the individual travel routes so as to not be able to identify trips connected to a single ticket, but
only retains information about separate travel routes.

In cases where there can still be a risk of identifying a person solely by their public transportation travel
route the controller implements statistical measures to reduce the risk, such as cutting the beginning
and the end of the route.

Example 3
A courier aims at assessing the effectiveness of its deliveries in terms of delivery times, workload
scheduling and fuel consumption. In order to reach this goal, the courier has to process a number of
personal data relating to both employees (drivers) and customers (addresses, items to be delivered,
etc.). This processing operation entails risks of both monitoring employees, which requires specific
legal safeguards, and tracking customers’ habits through the knowledge of the delivered items over
time. These risks can be significantly reduced with appropriate pseudonymization of employees and
customers.  In  particular  if  pseudonymization  keys  are  frequently  rotated  and  macro  areas  are
considered instead of detailed addresses, an effective data minimisation is pursued, and the controller

Adopted

22

can solely focus on the delivery process and on the purpose of resource optimization, without crossing
the threshold of monitoring individuals’ (customers’ or employees’) behaviours.

Example 4

A  hospital  is  collecting  data about  its  patients  in  a  hospital  information  system  (electronic  health
record). Hospital staff needs to access patient files to inform their decisions regarding care for and
treatment of the patients, and for the documentation of all diagnostic, care and treatment actions
taken. By default, access is granted to only those members of the medical staff who are assigned to
the treatment of the respective patient in the speciality department she or he is assigned to. The group
of people with access to a patient’s file is enlarged if other departments or diagnostic units are involved
in the treatment. After the patient is discharged, and billing is completed, access is reduced to a small
group  of  employees  per speciality  department who answer  requests  for medical  information  or  a
consultation  made  or  asked  for  by  other  medical  service  providers  upon  authorization  by  the
respective patient.

3.6 Accuracy

Personal data shall be accurate and kept up to date, and every reasonable step shall be taken to ensure
that personal data that is inaccurate, having regard to the purposes for which they are processed, are
erased or rectified without delay.38

The requirements should be seen in relation to the risks and consequences of the concrete use of data.
Inaccurate personal data could be a risk to the data subjects’ rights and freedoms, for example when
leading to a faulty diagnosis or wrongful treatment of a health protocol, or an incorrect image of a
person can  lead  to decisions  being  made  on  the  wrong  basis  either  manually,  using  automated
decision-making, or through artificial intelligence.

Key design and default accuracy elements may include:

 Data source – Sources of personal data should be reliable in terms of data accuracy.
 Degree of accuracy – Each personal data element should be as accurate as necessary for the

specified purposes.

 Measurably accurate - Reduce the number of false positives/negatives, for example biases in

automated decisions and artificial intelligence.
Verification – Depending on the nature of the data, in relation to how often it may change, the
controller should verify the correctness of personal data with the data subject before and at
different stages of the processing (e.g. to age requirements).
Erasure/rectification – The controller shall erase or rectify inaccurate data without delay. The
controller shall in particular facilitate this where the data subjects are or were children and
later want to remove such personal data.39
Error propagation avoidance – Controllers should mitigate the effect of an accumulated error
in the processing chain.







77.

78.

79.

38 Art. 5(1)(d) GDPR.
39 Cf. Recital 65.

Adopted

23





Access – Data subjects should be given information about and effective access to personal data
in  accordance with  the GDPR articles  12  to  15 in  order  to  control  accuracy  and  rectify  as
needed.
Continued accuracy – Personal data should be accurate at all stages of the processing, tests of
accuracy should be carried out at critical steps.

 Up to date – Personal data shall be updated if necessary for the purpose.
 Data design - Use of technological and organisational design features to decrease inaccuracy,

for example present concise predetermined choices instead of free text fields.

Example 1

An insurance company wishes to use artificial intelligence (AI) to profile customers buying insurance
as a basis for their decision making when calculating the insurance risk. When determining how their
AI solutions should be developed, they are determining the means of processing and shall consider
data protection by design when choosing an AI application from a vendor and when deciding on how
to train the AI.

When determining how to train the AI, the controller should have accurate data to achieve precise
results. Therefore, the controller should ensure that the data used to train the AI is accurate.

Granted that they have a valid legal basis to train the AI using personal data from a large subset of
their  existing  customers,  the  controller  chooses  a  pool  of  customers  that  is  representative  of  the
population to also avoid bias.

The customer data is then collected from the respective data handling system, including data on the
type of insurance, for example health insurance, home insurance, travel insurance, etc. as well as data
from public registries they have lawful access to. All data are pseudonymized prior to transfer to the
system dedicated to the training of the AI model.

To ensure that the data used for AI training is as accurate as possible, the controller only collects data
from data sources with correct and up-to date information.

The insurance company tests whether the AI is reliable and provides non-discriminatory results both
during its development and finally before the product is released. When the AI is fully trained and
operative,  the insurance  company uses the results to  support the insurance  risk assessments, yet
without solely relying on the AI to decide whether to grant insurance, unless the decision is made in
accordance with the exceptions in Article 22 (2) GDPR.

The insurance company will also regularly review the results from the AI, to maintain the reliability and
when necessary adjust the algorithm.

Example 2

The controller is a health institution looking to find methods to ensure the integrity and accuracy of
personal data in their client registers.

In  situations  where  two  persons  arrive  at  the  institution  at  the  same  time  and  receive  the  same
treatment, there is a risk of mistaking them if the only parameter to distinguish them is by name. To
ensure  accuracy,  the  controller  needs a  unique  identifier  for  each  person,  and  therefore  more
information than just the name of the client.

Adopted

24

The institution uses several systems containing personal information of clients, and needs to ensure
that the information related to the client is correct, accurate and consistent in all the systems at any
point in time. The institution has identified several risks that may arise if information is changed in one
system but not in the others.

The controller decides to mitigate the risk by using a hashing technique that can be used to ensure
integrity  of  data  in  the  treatment  journal.  Immutable cryptographic  time  stamps are  created  for
treatment journal records and the client associated with them so that any changes can be recognized,
correlated and traced if required.

3.7 Storage limitation

80.

The controller must ensure that personal data is kept in a form which permits identification of data
subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data is processed.40
It is vital that the controller knows exactly what personal data the company processes and why. The
purpose of the processing shall be the main criterion to decide in how long personal data shall be
stored.

81. Measures and safeguards that implement the principle of storage limitation shall complement the

rights and freedoms of the data subjects, specifically, the right to erasure and the right to object.

82.

Key design and default storage limitation elements may include:

 Deletion and  anonymization – The  controller should have  clear  internal  procedures and












functionalities for deletion and/or anonymization.
Effectiveness of anonymization/deletion – The controller shall make sure that it is not possible
to  re-identify  anonymized  data  or  recover  deleted  data,  and  should  test  whether  this  is
possible.
Automation – Deletion of certain personal data should be automated
Storage criteria – The controller shall determine what data and length of storage is necessary
for the purpose.
Justification – The controller shall be able to justify why the period of storage is necessary for
the purpose and the personal data in question, and be able to disclose the rationale behind,
and legal grounds for the retention period.
Enforcement of retention policies – The controller should enforce internal retention policies
and conduct tests of whether the organization practices its policies.
Backups/logs – Controllers shall determine what personal  data  and  length  of  storage  is
necessary for back-ups and logs.

 Data flow – Controllers should beware of the flow of personal data, and the storage of any

copies thereof, and seek to limit their “temporary” storage.

Example

The controller  collects  personal  data  where  the  purpose  of  the  processing  is to administer  a
membership of the  data  subject. The  personal data  shall  be  deleted  when the  membership  is
terminated and there is no legal basis for further storage of the data.

40 Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR.

Adopted

25

83.

84.

85.

The controller first draws up an internal procedure for data retention and deletion. According to this,
employees shall manually delete personal data after the retention period ends. The employee follows
the procedure to regularly delete and correct data from any devices, from backups, logs, e-mails and
other relevant storage media.

To make deletion more effective, and less error-prone, the controller then implements an automatic
system instead,  in  order to  delete  data automatically,  reliably and  more regularly.  The  system  is
configured to follow the given procedure for data deletion which then occurs at a predefined regular
interval to remove personal data from all of the company’s storage media. The controller reviews and
tests  the  retention  procedure regularly and  ensures that it  concurs with  the  up-to-date  retention
policy.

3.8 Integrity and confidentiality

The  principle  of integrity  and  confidentiality includes protection  against  unauthorised  or  unlawful
processing  and  against  accidental  loss,  destruction  or  damage,  using  appropriate  technical  or
organisational measures. The security of personal data requires appropriate measures designed to
prevent and manage data breach incidents; to guarantee the proper execution of data processing
tasks, and compliance with the other principles; and to facilitate the effective exercise of individuals’
rights.

Recital 78 states that one of the DPbDD measures could consist of enabling the controller to “create
and improve security features”. Along with other DPbDD measures, Recital 78 suggests a responsibility
on the controllers to continually assess whether it is using the appropriate means of processing at all
times and to  assess  whether  the chosen measures  actually  counter  the  existing  vulnerabilities.
Furthermore, controllers should conduct regular reviews of the information security measures that
surround and protect personal data, and the procedure for handling data breaches.

Key design and default integrity and confidentiality elements may include:









Information  security management  system  (ISMS) – Have  an operative means of managing
policies and procedures for information security.
Risk analysis – Assess the risks against the security of personal data by considering the impact
on individuals’ rights and counter identified risks. For use in risk assessment; develop and
maintain a comprehensive, systematic and realistic “threat modelling” and an attack surface
analysis of the designed software to reduce attack vectors and opportunities to exploit weak
points and vulnerabilities.
Security by design – Consider security requirements as early as possible in the system design
and development and continuously integrate and perform relevant tests.

 Maintenance – Regular  review  and  test  software,  hardware,  systems  and  services,  etc.  to

uncover vulnerabilities of the systems supporting the processing.
Access control management – Only the authorized personnel who need to should have access
to  the personal data  necessary  for  their  processing  tasks,  and  the  controller should
differentiate between access privileges of authorized personnel.

o Access limitation (agents) – Shape the data processing in a way that a minimal number
of  people  need  access  to  personal  data  to  perform  their  duties,  and  limit  access
accordingly.

o Access limitation (content) – In the context of each processing operation, limit access
to  only  those  attributes  per  data  set  that  are  needed  to  perform  that  operation.

Adopted

26

Moreover, limit access to data pertaining to those data subjects who are in the remit
of the respective employee.

o Access  segregation – Shape  the  data  processing  in  a  way that  no  individual  needs
comprehensive access to all data collected about a data subject, much less all personal
data of a particular category of data subjects.

Secure transfers – Transfers shall be secured against unauthorized and accidental access and
changes.
Secure storage – Data storage shall be secure from unauthorized access and changes. There
should  be  procedures  to assess the  risk  of centralized  or  decentralized  storage,  and what
categories of personal data this applies to. Some data may need additional security measures
than others or isolation from others.
Pseudonymization – Personal data and back-ups/logs should be pseudonymized as a security
measure to minimise risks of potential data breaches, for example using hashing or encryption.
Backups/logs – Keep back-ups and logs to the extent necessary for information security, use
audit trails and event monitoring as a routine security control. These shall be protected from
unauthorised and accidental access and change and reviewed regularly and incidents should
be handled promptly.











 Disaster recovery/ business continuity – Address information system disaster recovery and
business  continuity  requirements to  restore  the  availability  of  personal  data  following  up
major incidents.
Protection according to risk – All categories  of  personal  data  should  be  protected  with
measures adequate with respect to the risk of a security breach. Data presenting special risks
should, when possible, be kept separated from the rest of the personal data.
Security incident response management – Have in place routines, procedures and resources
to detect, contain, handle, report and learn from data breaches.
Incident management – Controller should have processes in place to handle breaches and
incidents, in  order  to make  the  processing  system  more  robust.  This  includes notification
procedures, such  as management  of  notification  (to  the supervisory  authority)  and
information (to data subjects).





Example
A controller wants to extract large quantities of personal data from a medical database containing
electronic (patient) health records to a dedicated database server in the company in order to process
the extracted data for quality assurance purposes. The company has assessed the risk for routing the
extracts to a server that is accessible to all of the company’s employees as likely to be high for data
subjects’  rights  and  freedoms. Since  there  is  only one department  in  the  company  who  needs to
process the patient data extracts, the controller decides to restrict access to the dedicated server to
employees in that department. Moreover, to further reduce risk, the data will be pseudonymized
before they are transferred.
To regulate access and mitigate possible damage from malware, the company decides to segregate
the network, and establish access controls to the server. In addition, they put up security monitoring
and an intrusion detection and prevention system and isolates it from routine use. An automated
auditing system is put in place to monitor access and changes. Reporting and automated alerts are
generated from this when certain events related to usage are configured. The controller will ensure
that  users only have  access  on  a  need  to  know  basis  and  with  the  appropriate  access  level.
Inappropriate use can be quickly and easily detected.

Adopted

27

Some of the extracts have to be compared with new extracts, and therefore are required to be stored
for three months. The controller decides to put them into separate databases on the same server, and
use both transparent and column-level encryption to store them. Keys for column data decryption are
stored in dedicated security modules that can only be used by authorized personnel, but not extracted.
Handling upcoming incidents makes  the  system  more  robust,  and  reliable.  The  data  controller
understands that preventative and effective measures and safeguards should be built into all personal
data processing it undertakes now and in the future, and that doing so may help prevent future such
data breach incidents.
The  controller  establishes  these  security  measures  both  to  ensure  accuracy, 
integrity  and
confidentiality, but also to prevent malware spread by cyber-attacks and to make the solution robust.
Having robust security measures contributes to build trust with the data subjects.

3.9 Accountability41

86.

87.

88.

89.

The  principle  of  accountability  states  that  the controller  shall  be  responsible  for,  and  be  able  to
demonstrate compliance with all of the abovementioned principles.

The  controller  needs  to be  able  to demonstrate  compliance  with  the  principles.  In  doing so, the
controller may demonstrate the effects of the measures taken to protect the data subjects’ rights, and
why the measures are considered to be appropriate and effective. For example, demonstrating why a
measure is appropriate to ensure the principle of storage limitation in an effective manner.

To be able to process personal data responsibly, the controller should have both the knowledge of and
the ability to implement data protection. This entails that the controller should understand their data
protection obligations of the GDPR and be able to comply with these obligations.

4 ARTICLE 25(3) CERTIFICATION

According  to  Article  25(3),  certification  pursuant  to  Article  42 may  be  used  as an element  to
demonstrate compliance with DPbDD. Conversely, documents demonstrating compliance with DPbDD
may  also  be  useful  in  a  certification  process. This  means  that  where  a processing  operation  by  a
controller or a processor has been certified as per Article 42, supervisory authorities shall take this into
account in their assessment of compliance with the GDPR, specifically with regards to DPbDD.

90. When  a  processing  operation by  a  controller or  processor is  certified  according  to  Article  42,  the
elements  that  contribute  to  demonstrating  compliance  with  Article 25(1)  and  (2)  are  the  design
processes, i.e. the process of determining the means of processing, the governance and the technical
and  organizational  measures  to  implement  the  data  protection  principles The  data  protection
certification criteria are determined by the certification bodies or certification scheme owners and
then approved by the competent supervisory authority or by the EDPB. For further information about
certification  mechanisms, we  refer  the  reader  to the EDPB  Guideline  on  Certification42 and  other
relevant guidance, as published on the EDPB website.

41 See Recital 74, where controllers are required to demonstrate the effectiveness of their measures.
42 EDPB. “Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42
and 43 of the Regulation”. Version 3.0, 4 June 2019.
edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_201801_v3.0_certificationcriteria_annex2_en.pdf

Adopted

28

91.

Even  where a  processing operation is  awarded a  certification in  accordance  with  Article  42,  the
controller still has the responsibility to continuously monitor and improve compliance with the DPbDD-
criteria of Article 25.

5 ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE 25 AND CONSEQUENCES

92.

Supervisory authorities may assess compliance with Article 25 according to the procedures listed in
Article 58. The corrective powers are specified in Article 58(2) and include the issuance of warnings,
reprimands,  orders  to  comply  with  data  subjects’  rights,  limitations  on  or  ban of processing,
administrative fines, etc.

93.

DPbDD is further a factor in determining the level of monetary sanctions for breaches of the GDPR, see
Article 83(4).43 44

6 RECOMMENDATIONS

94.

Although not directly addressed in Article 25, processors and producers are also recognized as key
enablers for DPbDD, they should be aware that controllers are required to only process personal data
with systems and technologies that have built-in data protection.

95. When  processing  on  behalf  of  controllers,  or  providing  solutions  to  controllers, processors  and
producers should  use  their  expertise  to  build  trust  and  guide  their  customers,  including  SMEs, in
designing /procuring solutions that embed data protection into the processing. This means in turn that
the design of products and services should facilitate controllers’ needs.

96.

It should be kept in mind when implementing Article 25 that the main design objective is the effective
implementation of the principles and protection of the rights of data subjects into the appropriate
measures of the processing. In order to facilitate and enhance the adoption of DPbDD, we make the
following recommendations to controllers as well as producers and processors:



Controllers should think of data protection from the initial stages of planning a processing
operation, even before the time of determination of the means of processing.



 Where the controller has a Data Protection Officer (DPO), the EDPB encourages the active
involvement of the DPO to integrate DPbDD in the procurement and development procedures,
as well as in the whole processing life-cycle.
A processing operation may be certified. The ability to get a processing operation certified
provides an added value to a controller when choosing between different processing software,
hardware, services and/or systems from producers or processors. Therefore, producers should
strive to demonstrate DPbDD in the life-cycle of their development of a processing solution. A
certification seal may also guide data subjects in their choice between different goods and
services. Having the ability to get a processing certified can serve as a competitive advantage
for  producers,  processors  and  controllers, and even enhances data  subjects’  trust  in  the

43 Article 83(2)(d) GDPR stipulates that in determining the imposition of fines for breach of the GDPR “due
regard” shall be taken of “the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor taking into account
technical and organisational measures implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25 and 32“.
44 More information on fines can be found in Article 29 Working Party. “Guidelines on application and setting of
administrative fines for the purposes of the Regulation 2016/679”. WP 253, 3 October 2017.
ec.europa.eu/newsroom/just/document.cfm?doc_id=47889 - endorsed by the EDPB.

Adopted

29

















processing of their personal data. If no certification is offered, controllers should seek to have
other guarantees that producers or processors comply with the requirements of DPbDD.
Controllers, processors and producers, should consider their obligations to provide children
under 18 and other vulnerable groups with specific protection in complying with DPbDD.
Producers and processors should seek to facilitate DPbDD implementation in order to support
the controller’s ability to comply with Article 25 obligations. Controllers, on the other hand,
should not choose producers or processors who do not offer systems enabling or supporting
the controller to comply with Article 25, because controllers will be held accountable for the
lack of implementation thereof.
Producers and processors should play an active role in ensuring that the criteria for the “state
of the art” are met, and notify controllers of any changes to the “state of the art” that may
affect the effectiveness of the measures they have in place. Controllers should include this
requirement as a contractual clause to make sure they are kept up to date.
The EDPB recommends controllers to require that producers and processors demonstrate how
their  hardware,  software,  services  or  systems  enable  the  controller  to  comply  with  the
requirements  to accountability in  accordance  with DPbDD, for  example by  using  key
performance indicators to demonstrate the effectiveness of the measures and safeguards at
implementing the principles and rights.
The EDPB emphasizes the need for a harmonized approach to implement principles and rights
in an effective manner and encourages associations or bodies preparing codes of conduct in
accordance with Article 40 to also incorporate sector-specific guidance on DPbDD.
Controllers  should  be  fair  to  data  subjects and transparent  on how  they  assess  and
demonstrate  effective DPbDD 
in the  same  manner  as controllers
demonstrate compliance with the GDPR under the principle of accountability.
Privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) that have reached the state-of-the-art maturity can be
employed as a measure in accordance with the DPbDD requirements if appropriate in a risk
based approach. PETs in themselves do not necessarily cover the obligations of Article 25.
Controllers shall assess whether the measure is appropriate and effective in implementing the
data protection principles and the rights of data subjects.
Existing  legacy  systems  are  under  the  same  DPbDD-obligations  as  new  systems. If legacy
systems do not already comply with DPbDD, and changes cannot be made to comply with the
obligations, then the legacy system simply does not meet GDPR-obligations and cannot be
used to process personal data.

implementation,

 Article 25 does not lower the threshold of requirements for SMEs. The following points may

facilitate SMEs’ compliance with Article 25:

o Do early risk assessments
o Start with small processing – then scale its scope and sophistication later
o Look  for producer  and processor  guarantees of  DPbDD,  such  as  certification  and

adherence to code of conducts

o Use partners with a good track record
o Talk with DPAs
o Read guidance from DPAs and the EDPB
o Adhere to codes of conduct where available
o Get professional help and advice

Adopted

30

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

31

