1/9

Procedure No.: PS/00135/2019

RESOLUTION R/00275/2019 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE BY

VOLUNTARY PAYMENT

In sanctioning procedure PS/00135/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to the entity AMADOR RECREATIVOS, S.L. (CLASS OF
TIKI TAKA GAMES), given the complaint filed by MOLINA CITY COUNCIL
DE SEGURA -LOCAL POLICE, and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 15, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the entity AMADOR
RECREATIONAL, S.L. (TIKI TAKA GAMES ROOM), by means of the Agreement
transcribe:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00135/2019

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data before the entity AMADOR RECREATIVOS, S.L. (TIKI GAMES ROOM
TAKA), by virtue of a claim filed by the CITY COUNCIL OF MOLINA DE
SEGURA - LOCAL POLICE (hereinafter, the claimant) and based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: The CITY COUNCIL OF MOLINA DE SEGURA -LOCAL POLICE (in
hereinafter, the claimant) dated December 7, 2018 filed a claim with
the Spanish Data Protection Agency, motivated by data processing
carried out through cameras of a video surveillance system whose owner is
AMADOR RECREATIVOS, S.L. (TIKI TAKA GAMES ROOM) with NIF ***NIF.1
(*hereinafter the claimed) installed at ***ADDRESS.1.

The reasons on which the claim is based are "existence of security cameras

safety towards public roads” without just cause (folio nº 1).

 Together with the claim, it provides an intervention report from the Environment unit

Environment (Local Police)—Proof Document No. 1--.

Documentary evidence is provided (Doc. No. 1) consisting of a photograph(s) of the
monitor of the denounced company, where you can see how they obtain
images of public roads.

SECOND: On 01/16/19, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the entity
denounced, so that it will manifest itself on the facts, specifically characteristics of
the cameras, orientation of the same, compliance with the duty of information,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

appearing as "Notified" in the computer system of this body.

THIRD: Consulted the computer system of this body on 03/21/19
there is no evidence that any allegation has been made by the accused, explaining the
characteristics of the system or indicating the measures adopted to, where appropriate, ensure
for compliance with current regulations.

FOURTH: Consulting the computer system of this body, it is associated with the
denounced a previous Complaint of the same City Council, with reference number
E/05991/2017, which caused this body to send a letter to the
denounced, reminding him of compliance with measures in relation to the video-
Surveillance installed.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the "facts" are specified in the installation of video cameras-
surveillance directed towards public space without just cause.

The facts described may affect the content of article 5

letter c) GDPR. “Personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

Cameras installed by individuals cannot obtain images of the road
adjoining public, as it is a matter of exclusive competence of the Forces and
State Security Bodies (Organic Law 4/1997, of August 4).

By means of this type of device, it is possible to affect passers-by who
are affected in their right to privacy, "processing data" of the same outside the
cases permitted by current regulations.

Therefore, the person responsible for the installation must adopt all those
necessary measures, so that the camera system complies with the regulations in force,
following the recommendations of the administrative control authorities, as well as
as well as the State Security Forces and Bodies.

The treatment of images in public places can only be carried out -in your
case and prior compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

Security Forces, unless the exception established in article 4.3 operates
of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of this Agency, which establishes: "the
cameras and video cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain
images of public spaces unless it is essential for the purpose of
surveillance that is intended, or is impossible to avoid because of the location of
those. In any case, any unnecessary data processing should be avoided.
for the intended purpose”

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

III

For informational purposes only, it is worth remembering some of the requirements that must be
comply with the processing of images through a video surveillance system to be
in accordance with current regulations:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space since the treatment of images in places
public can only be carried out, where appropriate, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in article
12 of the RGPD 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the terms referred to both in the
cited article, as in articles 13 and 14 of said rule, resulting from the application
-by not contradicting the provisions of the aforementioned Regulation-, the manner provided in the
Article 3 of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, on the Processing of Personal Data for the Purpose of
Surveillance through Camera Systems or Video Cameras (Instruction 1/2006, of 8
of November, of the Spanish Data Protection Agency).

Specifically, it must:

1. Place at least one informative badge in the video-monitored areas
located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed.

In accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of April 27, 2016, in the informative sign above

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

mentioned must identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided in
these precepts.

2. Keep available to those affected the information referred to in the

cited Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016.

IV

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the person claimed has proceeded to install a system
video-surveillance oriented towards public space without just cause.

The known facts could constitute an infraction, attributable to the
claimed, for violation of article 5 RGPD, as it is oriented towards
public space disproportionately.

This fact is verified by the Report issued by the Forces and Bodies of
State Security (Local Police)-Doc. exhibit nº 1-- where the images
contributed verify the obtaining of images of the public pavement and of the cars
parked.

v

Among the corrective powers that article 58 section 2 of the RGPD recognizes
each Control Authority, contemplates:

Yo)

Impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
Instead of the measures mentioned in this section, according to the
circumstances of each particular case. (…)”.

This infraction classified as very serious can be sanctioned with a fine of
€20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount
at a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount. (article 83.5 a) RGPD), assuming a
infringement:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9 (…)”.

The LOPGDD in its article 72.1.a) indicates: "Infringements considered very serious":

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

The entity denounced, despite the warnings of the Authorities
public, has ignored, being the video-surveillance cameras oriented
into public space, without any measure being adopted in this regard.

In the present case, when adjusting the amount of the sanction to be imposed,
taking into account the following aggravating circumstances:

-the intentionality or negligence of the infraction, given that according to what is verified
in the report (Proof Document No. 1) there have been several times in which it has been
warned by the acting force, of the incorrect orientation of the camera, making
disregard the warnings exposed, so the conduct must be classified as
grave—art. 83.2 b) GDPR--.

-He has not collaborated with the control authority, since the claim was transferred,
with its documentation did not respond to this AEPD in any way, not knowing
In addition, if you have taken any measure so that the infraction is not repeated and to mitigate
the events produced --(83.2.f) RGPD--.

-the facts are known by this body, as a result of a complaint sent by
the City Council of Molina de Segura (Local Police) that transfers them to the
continued passivity of the data controller—art. 83.2 h) RGPD--.

As mitigating circumstances to assess in order to graduate the
sanction, taking into account the limited collection space, the absence of benefits
obtained, as well as the fact that it is a small company, so the
The amount of the economic sanction is considered to have to be proportionate to the
offense committed, considering it correct to encrypt it in the amount of €6,000 (Six Thousand
Euros), considering that they have been fully informed by the Agents
transferred to the scene of the violation of the regulations on the matter of
Data Protection.

SAW

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2
d) it is established that each control authority may “order the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way
and within a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with
the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the
GDPR.

The reported entity must prove compliance with the required measure
by this body, reorientation of the outer chamber, providing documentation
(vgr. screen printout with date and time) of what in your case is captured with the
same.

Therefore, as stated,
By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

HE REMEMBERS:

1.

START A SANCTIONING PROCEDURE against the AMADOR entity
RECREATIONAL, S.L. (TIKI TAKA GAMES ROOM), with NIF ***NIF.1, by
the alleged infringement of article 5 letter c) RGPD, by keeping cameras of
video-surveillance oriented towards public space without just cause,
infringement typified in article 83.5 a) RGPD and qualified as very serious.

2. APPOINT Mr. R.R.R. as Instructor, and Secretary, if applicable, Mr.
S.S.S. indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of 1
October, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

3.

INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection
of Data during the investigation phase, all of them part of the present
Administrative file.

4. THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the sanction that could correspond would be €6,000.
(Six Thousand Euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

5. NOTIFY this agreement to the entity denounced AMADOR
RECREATIONAL, S.L. (TIKI TAKA GAMES ROOM), with NIF ***NIF.1,
granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the
pleadings and submit any evidence you deem appropriate.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at €4,800 (€6,000-€1,200), resolving the procedure with the imposition
of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €4,800 and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.
 
The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at €3,600 (Three thousand six hundred Euros)

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (€4,800 or €3,6000), you must make it effective through your
Deposit in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating
in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

 >>

SECOND: On 06/01/2019 the reported entity AMADOR RECREATIVOS,
SL (TIKI TAKA GAMES ROOM) has proceeded to pay the penalty in the
amount of 4,800 euros making use of the reduction(s) foreseen in the Agreement of
commencement, which entails the waiver of any administrative action or recourse
against the sanction in case of voluntary payment without acknowledgment of responsibility.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed
against said Regulation; violations of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of 9
May, General de Telecomunicaciones (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the
provided in article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles
38.3 c), d) and i) and 38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the
information society and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), according to
Article 43.1 of said Law provides.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations”.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES

FIRST: DECLARE
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

the termination of procedure PS/00135/2019, of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

this resolution to the entity--AMADOR

SECOND: NOTIFY
RECREATIONAL, S.L. -(TIKI TAKA GAMES ROOM).
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.agpd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

