OFFICE FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Lt. Col. Sochora 27, 170 00 Prague 7
tel .: 234 665 111, fax: 234 665 444
posta@uoou.cz, www.uoou.cz

* UOOUX00BUE88 *

 
 
 
Ref. UOOU-10191 / 13-43

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DECISION

 
Chairwoman of the Office for Personal Data Protection as an appellate body competent pursuant to § 2, § 29
and § 32 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data and on the amendment of certain acts, and according to
§ 10 and § 152 paragraph 2 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., The Administrative Procedure Code decided on March 26, 2018 according to
provisions of § 152 par. 6 let. a), § 152 par. 5 and § 90 par. 1 let. a) of Act No. 500/2004 Coll.,
Administrative Procedure Code, as follows:
 
Decision of the Office for Personal Data Protection ref. UOOU-10191 / 13-28 of 26 March 2014
is canceled and the proceedings are stopped.

 
 

Justification

 
The Office for Personal Data Protection (hereinafter "the Office") considered that the party
XXXXXX (hereinafter
only "party to the proceedings"), in connection with the processing of personal data
through a camera system, as a controller of personal data according to § 4 letter j) of the Act
No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data and on the amendment of certain acts, as unspecified
published photos on XXXXXX at least until 5 December 2013
alleged perpetrators of the theft and published on the Internet address XXXXXX footage from the camera
system intercepting alleged perpetrators of theft. Thus, the party to the proceedings should have breached the obligation
stipulated in § 5 par. 1 let. f) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., ie the obligation to process personal
data only in accordance with the purpose for which they were collected and for other purposes only within the limits
provisions of § 3 paragraph 6 of this Act or if the data subject has given his consent and committed
administrative offense according to § 45 par. 1 let. c) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. By decision of the Office ref. UOOU-
10191 / 13-28 of 26 March 2014, a fine was therefore imposed on the party
CZK 100,000.
 
The dissolution of the party to the proceedings was a decision of the Chairman of the Office ref. UOOU-10191 / 13-33 of
27 May 2014 ('the decision'), but the decision was subsequently rejected by the party
challenged in an administrative action. Judgment of the Municipal Court in Prague Ref. 8A 117 / 2014-46-52 of

1/4



30 January 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the "judgment"), against which neither the Office nor any other entitled person filed
cassation complaint, then the decision was annulled and the case was returned to the Office for further proceedings.
 
In the grounds of the judgment, the Municipal Court in Prague (hereinafter referred to as the "Municipal Court") stated that it was administrative
the authority must justify in a verifiable manner the considerations on which it was conducted, as in
own proof, as well as in the interpretation of legal concepts and the overall evaluation addressed
legal issues, the justification being individual and specific to the case.
If the administrative body decides, within the limits of the law permitted by reason, for a certain possibility, it should
should duly justify its choice and is obliged, among other things, to ensure that the solution adopted is in accordance with
public interest and to suit the specific circumstances of the case. However, this is how the Office
neither the President of the Office acted in the opinion of the Municipal Court, as they did not take into account and
they did not deal in more detail with the fact that there were two competing parties
protected interests (respectively fundamental rights). The administrative bodies of both had a conflict between these rights
degrees in deciding on an administrative offense to know and properly assess them so that they meet their own
obligations in justifying a decision on administrative punishment. The administrative authorities therefore, according to
In the opinion of the Municipal Court, they did not take due and explicit account of the protected interests involved in the case
appear, although Act No. 101/2000 Coll. anticipates that, where necessary, they may be
personal data are processed without the consent of the data subject. The city court did not deny that the Office
tried to respond to the party 's allegations concerning the need to protect it
the right to protection of property or the need to prevent crime, but at the same time in the opinion
The Municipal Court cannot find this reasoning sufficient. Lapidary general conclusion
administrative authority that the right to privacy prevails here because of the protection of their property
the plaintiff could have sought through the prosecuting authorities, he is not responsible
degree of interference with the rights of a party to the proceedings. Moreover, it does not even reflect the specifics of the crime, which
should be committed in the case, especially the current possibilities of the injured party in the search for
perpetrators of the crime, or other options that would protect its property
or helped him compensate for the damage caused by the thefts. The city court, he said, not at all
does not take the view that the interest in detecting and punishing socially undesirable behavior must and
a priori outweigh the constitutionally guaranteed right to inviolability of the privacy of a person or
more generally its integrity. However, it is the administrative authority's responsibility to consider these circumstances and to do so appropriately
to be taken into account in the statement of reasons for the decision issued, also with regard to the constitutional order
guaranteed protection of property. And a harsh statement that ignores the importance of interests is not enough
contrary to the right to privacy. This is especially necessary
assess the reason for the publication of the camera recording by a private person, ie whether it was watching
his legitimate, generally legitimate aim or, conversely, the purpose of publication was only
unjustifiably interfere with the rights of another (for example, in the case of a targeted invasion of privacy for
a situation where this would no longer be a necessary step to detect the perpetrator
activity, typically if it had already been caught). At the same time, it is necessary to consider whether disclosure
CCTV recording was the only possible way to achieve this goal, or whether
they also offered other options, less interfering in the legal sphere of other persons, which would, however, be capable
achieve the objective pursued. In this context, the administrative authorities have to assess the specific
circumstances of the case in light of the intensity of the need to publish a camera recording (e.g.
previous attacks on the acquirer's property, the actual purpose of use of the record, method of publication
etc.) and the protection of the privacy of the person concerned. For the above reasons, the Municipal Court has arrived
concludes that the contested decision is unreviewable for lack of reason and therefore
set aside and remitted the case to the Office for further proceedings, without considering the merits of the other pleas.

 

2/4



To that end, the appellate body, having thoroughly acquainted itself with the file, considers that
In particular, it must be stated that the administrative procedure was conducted on the basis of a closer notice
unidentified persons, none of the persons captured in the footage opposing the publication
in no way. The appellate body then found its own footage to be very inconclusive, since
capture either obviously unidentifiable or very difficult to identify persons
and only in some cases can a certain defect in their actions be inferred. The shots are too
do not affect the dignity of the data subjects. It should also be noted that the party concerned
throughout the proceedings, he stated that only illustrative ones were published
shots taken with the consent of individuals for the purpose of preventing fictitious crime
customer theft, ie that these are not real shots of alleged perpetrators of theft. Tuto
however, the Office, both in the proceedings at first instance and in the appeal proceedings,
refused, but only on the basis of indirect indications. City court with the subject
he did not explicitly agree with the Office's arguments, as he did not agree in this decision on this issue
did not express.
 
It is therefore necessary to recall the fact that the shots can be perceived as illustrative, taken
in de facto public spaces, with the aim of documenting the security of the building
through a camera system, which can be seen as fulfilling a legitimate purpose
in accordance with § 5 par. 2 let. e) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. Although some scanned people report
signs of suspicious behavior, but this is not so intense that it could be perceived as
guide for the Police of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, this publication could act as a kind
prevention, resp. a tool to deter possible (petty) thefts. To the fact that it is
the sentence after the semicolon of the last quoted provision is fulfilled (ie that it cannot be detected
disproportionate disruption of private and personal life), as evidenced by the absence already mentioned
complaints from data subjects. It is also very important that the participant in the proceedings in question camera
records in the course of the proceedings conducted by the Office, and it also appears for this reason
the sanction itself is disproportionately high.
 
Furthermore, in particular from the opinion of the Office published on 3 October 2017 on the so-called case
ekolo.cz
(see https://www.uoou.cz/uoou-by-pokutu-v-pripadu-ekolo-cz-znovu-neudelil/d-
27149) it is clear that the Office intends to deal with similar cases in such a way that they are always thorough
assess the circumstances of each individual case and that the interpretation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.
the principle of proportionality is respected. In the judgment in question, the Municipal Court, as it was
as mentioned above, emphasizes the same, with the proviso that a specific case should take place
to assess the conflict between the right to privacy of the recorded person and the constitutionally
guaranteed rights of the person who made and published the alert in order to protect his
ownership. Conflicts of these rights should be made by the administrative authorities of both levels in decision-making
know about the administrative offense in question and properly assess it in such a way that they meet their own
obligations in justifying a decision on administrative punishment. City Court in particular
pointed out that the described conflict of protected interests is also foreseen by § 5 para. e) of the Act
No. 101/2000 Coll., according to which personal data may be processed even without the consent of the data subject,
where necessary to protect the rights and legally protected interests of the administrator, and
a strict statement on the impossibility of applying that provision is not sufficient. Responsibilities
administrative authority is to properly reflect this conflict and to settle it properly in its decision,
not only to state a breach of the legal obligations set out in the Protection Act
personal data.
 

3/4



On the basis of the above, the Appellate Body then concluded that the decisions in question
The Office was not sufficiently detailed in terms of justification, it was not built on thorough
assessment of the individual circumstances of the case and the test was not carried out to a sufficient degree
proportionality, as required by the judgment of the Municipal Court and also referred to in the opinion
Office of 3 October 2017 concerning the so-called ekolo.cz case. At the same time, however, he is forced
to state that, in the current state of affairs, it is generally very difficult to argue further
deepen and, if so, certainly not in the direction confirming the administrative
tort, but only in the opposite sense. Moreover, the degree of seriousness of the conduct of the party to the proceedings is crucial
in this way reduces the very fact of a significant time lag from the publication of the subject
slides.
 
In the light of all the above, the Appellate Body ruled as indicated
in the operative part of this decision, which, however, he considers it necessary to emphasize in particular
does not imply a general tendency on the part of the Office to publish photographs or records of
camera system containing personal data. At the same time, the appellate body found that this was the case
the original appeal is not satisfied and neither party can be harmed.
               
 
 
Lessons learned:

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 (1) of the Act, this decision shall be challenged
No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, cannot be revoked.

official stamp imprint

JUDr. Ivana Janů

chairwoman

 
 
Prague, March 26, 2018
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

4/4

