

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the legal title for the processing of personal data in connection with the testing of historic vehicles (UOOU-02990/20)
Registered association


The check was
initiated on the basis of a complaint by the complainant in which he stated that he suspected the
unauthorized processing of personal data by the association during testing
historic vehicles.

The office found that the association processes personal data of applicants
for the purpose of testing historic vehicles on the basis of authorization according to ยง 79b paragraph 2
Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on conditions
operation of vehicles on roads, and ยง 6 of decree no.
355/2006 Coll., on determining the method and conditions of registration, operation, method
and conditions for testing historic and sports vehicles, when the association was
testing authorized by the International Federation of Historic Vehicles. Detailed processing procedures
requests for testing a historic vehicle are regulated in ยง 6 of the decree
No. 355/2006 Coll. and Annex No. 6 thereof, in particular Annex No. 3 -
Sample application for testing of a historic vehicle in which it is also
the necessary range of processed personal data is indicated. According to point 6 of Appendix No. 6
Decree No. 355/2006 Coll. with a request for historical testing
vehicles is completed in four copies. One is intended for the historical register
vehicles, one is kept by the testing committee of the institute that carried out the testing, the other
the copy is handed over to the chairman of the relevant regional testing commission and one
remains applicants for historic vehicle testing.

The inspectors stated that the processing of personal data for
the purpose of testing and registration of a historic vehicle is carried out on the basis of
of the legal title according to Article 6 paragraph 1 letter c) of the general regulation, as it is about
processing that is necessary to fulfill a legal obligation imposed on the controller
personal data covered.

The inspection did not reveal any unauthorized use
processing of personal data when applying for historical testing
vehicles. The complainant was informed about the conclusions of the inspection.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Non-profit sector > Inspection of the legal title for the processing of personal data in connection with testing of historical vehicles (UOOU-02990/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



