DATA PROTECTION  ACT  2018  AND UK  GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION  REGULATION  

REPRIMAND 

 
TO: Central Young Men’s Christian Association (“the Central YMCA”) 

 

 

 

 

 
OF: 112 Great Russell Steet, London WC1B 3NQ. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
1.1 The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) issues a 
 
reprimand to the Central YMCA in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the 
 
UK General Data Protection Regulation (“UK GDPR”) in respect of certain 
infringements of the UK GDPR. 

 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The reprimand  

 

 
1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to the Central 
 
YMCA in respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Article 5(1)(f) which states: 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
"Personal data shall be […] processed in a manner that ensures 
appropriate security of the personal data, including protection against 
 
unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, 
 
destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or organisational 
 
measures (‘integrity and confidentiality’)." 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Article 32(1) and (2) which state: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation 
 
and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the 
 
 
risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of 
natural persons, the controller and the processor shall implement 
 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of 
 
security appropriate to the risk […] 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. In assessing the appropriate level of security account shall be taken in 
particular of the risks that are presented by processing, in particular from 
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

   
 

 
 
 
 

   
 
 

 
disclosure of, or access to personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise 
 
processed." 
 
  
1.3 The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below. 
 
 
1.4 The Central YMCA is an education and wellbeing charity that provides 
 
 
a number of community programmes, including the Positive Health 
 
 
Programme. The Positive Health Programme (“Programme”) is an exercise 
 
scheme for people living with HIV and is run by the Positive Health Team 
  
as part of YMCA Club. 
 
 
1.5 On 6 October 2022 at approximately 15:34 BST, a co-ordinator for 
 
the Programme sent an email to a mailing list of 270 recipients, inviting 
 
them to a talk about nutrition. The co-ordinator included the recipients’ 
 
email addresses in the carbon copy (“CC”) function, thus revealing all of 
 
the email addresses to all 270 recipients. The day after, the co-ordinator 
  
used the recall function, which led to another email to all 270 recipients. 
 
 
1.6 Whilst the emails had been sent to 270 recipients, there were 
 
 
duplicates, so they were sent to 264 unique email addresses. The emails 
 
were not delivered to 9 of those email addresses, so the emails were 
 
delivered to 255 recipients, disclosing 264 email addresses. 115 of those 
 
email addresses had clear names in them, and a further 51 contained at 
 
least part of a name, making individuals potentially identifiable. Therefore 
 
166 data subjects were affected by the breach, all of whom are in the 
 
Programme. 
 
 
1.7 With a reasonable degree of certainty, recipients of the email can 
 
infer from its contents that the 166 individuals, whose email addresses 
 
were disclosed in the breach, were likely to be living with HIV. This means 
 
that the disclosed personal data included health data, which is special 
  
category data under Article 9(1) of the UK GDPR. 
 
 
Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1) and (2): 
 
 
1.8 The Commissioner considers that the Central YMCA failed to ensure 
 
appropriate security of personal data and failed to implement technical 
 
and organisational security measures appropriate to the risk of the 
  
processing. 
 
 
1.9 At the time of the incident, the Central YMCA did not have sufficient 

 
   

   
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

   
 

 
  
 
 

 
   
 

 
   
 

written information security policies and procedures to prevent this 
 
 
 
   
breach.  It only had a verbal policy to use blind carbon copy (“BCC”) in 
 
 
emails, both of which is insufficient and not appropriate for managing 
 
special category data. 
 
 
1.10 Another part of the Central YMCA (the Communications and 
 
Marketing team) had an email marketing tool, BrotherMailer, which could 
 
have been used to mitigate this risk and handle the special category data 
 
appropriately, by sending individual emails to each recipient. The Central 
 
YMCA had the financial and organisational means to implement 
 
BrotherMailer in the Programme team, but failed to do so. If the Central 
 
 
YMCA had used BrotherMailer, it would have likely safeguarded the 
 
personal data from inappropriate disclosure. 
 
 
1.11 The Central YMCA failed to provide role specific data protection 
 
training at a sufficient quality to ensure that data protection is 
 
understood, and proportionate to the individual's level of access to, and 
 
 
the sensitivity of, personal data. The Commissioner noted there is 
 
 
evidence of a lack of awareness of data protection legislation in the 
  
Programme team. 
 
 
1.12 The Programme co-ordinator had not completed data protection 
 
training prior to the breach. The Commissioner found that the Central 
 
 
YMCA had failed to monitor training effectively and ensure that mandatory 
 
training was completed, in line with the Central YMCA's policies. 
 
 
Remedial steps taken by the Central YMCA 
 
 
1.13 The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial 
 
steps taken by the Central YMCA in light of this incident. In particular, the 
 
Central YMCA notified all affected individuals of the incident, taking 
 
accountability the error and informing data subjects of the steps being 
 
taken, including reporting the incident to the ICO and conducting an 
 
internal review. The incident was reported to the data protection officer 
 
then escalated efficiently, and learnings following the incident were 
  
shared across the organisation. 
 
 
1.14 The Central YMCA conducted an audit of how external 
 
 
communications were being undertaken across the organisation and 
 
issued a new External Communications Procedure that provides 
 
 
appropriate guidance to employees on sending emails securely. The 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 
 

   
 

Central YMCA also reviewed and updated its data protection training 
 
programme. 
 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
 
 
1.15 Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to the 
 
Central YMCA in relation to the infringements of Article 5(1)(f) and Article 
 
 
32(1) and (2) of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
 
1.16 The Central YMCA has had an opportunity to make representations 
 
to the Commissioner in response to the Notice of Intent regarding this 
 
reprimand. Instead of making representations the Central YMCA has 
 
decided to accept the Notice of Intent and the Commissioner’s findings. 
 
 
1.17 The ICO considered notifying the Central YMCA of its intention to 
 
impose an administrative penalty in the amount of £300,000. However 
 
 
taking into account the Commissioner’s current policy and its action on 
 
 
previous cases, the Commissioner reduced the value of the fine to £7,500 
 
 
and issues this reprimand to the Central YMCA. 
 
 
Dated the 6th day of March 2024 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Anthony Luhman 
 
Temporary Director of Investigations 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

4 
 

