 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink
Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 July 17, 2021

No surveillance in the dorm -

Now online: Guidelines for universities on online exams
 
LfDI Brink: “If a professor
in the exam hall
Students keeps in mind, it's something other than one
Software that is sent directly to the student via the webcam
sees the eyes and, in case of doubt, perceives every movement
can. With our handout we offer support
to organize online exams. She serves
Universities and students and sets a standard.”
 
More and more universities are taking advantage of the opportunities offered by exams
to perform online. Digitization is coming
Universities also due to student demand
according to flexible examination options. But above all has
a significant one last year due to the pandemic
Boost received, since face-to-face events only very much
were possible to a limited extent.
 
 

 

- 2 -

sometimes considerably

All these tests are under the command of the
equal opportunity and fairness; however, they must be online
procedures that
into the spatial and
technical encroachment on student privacy, too
meet all data protection requirements.
 
By no means all conducted online exams are sufficient
these legal requirements – although with the
the amended State Higher Education Act (LHG) clear specifications
were made. The State Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information Baden-Württemberg Dr. Stefan
Brink has been increasing the use of online tools
numerous references and complaints for audit purposes
get that sometimes software and exam rules
applied too much in the rights of students
intervention.
 
LfDI Brink: “We have seen that students
come under pressure: They also want to graduate in the
reach the pandemic in a timely manner and undergo online
Examination procedures that can be extremely stressful.
Permanent control of students in exam situations
through technical tools that get too personal, is not
acceptable. And according to the General Data Protection Regulation and
also not permitted by the LHG."
 
The state commissioner understands the universities,
which also prevent attempts at fraud in online exams
have to. LfDI Brink: “Of course, exam situations have to
be organized in a uniform and fair manner. They also have to
Examinations are supervised whenever necessary. We stand
therefore with universities, the students and
their
Representatives and the Ministry of Science in discussion

- 3 -

at

after

a

to advise

the search

camera pan

custom-fit,
and
privacy-compliant solutions. But we will continue
make sure that the civil rights of the students are protected
will. They don't have to give up their rights in order to be timely
to be able to take part in an exam.”
 
The handout that has now been published is clearly formulated
Key points to consider. It's on the home page
of the state representative ready for download.
 
The State Commissioner Brink makes it clear, among other things, that
Recordings and screenshots of exams prohibited
are. Universities may not require students to
control purposes
her
student room
the
Participants in the exams remain protected - the
The “thinking process” of the students should be unsupervised. Every
individual surveillance measure, for example this
Calling up a single image of the test object must also be
be displayed visually. Highly intrusive tools
of video conferencing systems, such as the attention
tracking
and
Body movements are not allowed. The video supervisor itself
is allowed. The use of software that changes the computer of the
Examinee scans and disproportionate to confidentiality
and integrity of this IT system (this has been the case since
Judgment of the Federal Constitutional Court of February 27, 2008
protected as a fundamental right), but is inadmissible.
 
 

of eyes, head

text drafts

make.

tracking

through

and

 

- 4 -

the

State representative

is the result of many
The handout
Conversation,
With
the
university representatives and the Ministry of Science,
Research and art Baden-Württemberg has led, one
University survey and complaints from students and
their representatives. This handout is provided with the
affected groups and institutions are further developed.
 
Further information:
The handout
wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/handreichung-zu-online-
exams-at-universities/
 
 

can be found here: https://www.baden-

