1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00181/2020
938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00181/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity, VIDEOTRAVEL S.L. with CIF.: B38756854, (in addition
before, “the entity claimed”), by virtue of a complaint filed by A.A.A. (hereinafter
plaintiff, “the claimant”), and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 10/17/19, you entered this Agency in writing, submitted by
the claimant, in which, among others, he indicated:
“I contracted a vacation with the Mundo Senior Plus Agency from April 16 to 25,
2019. During my stay in Tenerife, I booked an excursion to Teide that took place on 21
April 2019, organized by the same Agency. On April 17, 2019, we were told
called for a briefing in the hotel lounges, but at no point in the
meeting we were informed that the excursion was going to be recorded, so the Agency
He did not ask for verbal or written authorization at any time. In the hotel hall there was
an explanatory sheet of the excursion, but neither in any section of it is
It indicated nothing about the recording of the tour.
Upon boarding the bus, the guide reported that they would proceed to make a recording of the
excursion, but in no case requested verbal or written authorization to carry out the
same. From this point on, the technician recorded what he wanted, when he wanted and to whom he wanted and
At the end of the trip, the guide and the technician sold the recording among the assistants.
tents, charging the report in advance”.
Together with the written complaint, the responses of the entities are attached: "World
Senior Plus UTE” and “NOVO TOURS AIE”, to the respective claims presented by
the claimant, for the organization of the trip.
Among the responses given by the entity NOVO TOURS AIE, to the claimant, res-
Regarding the recording made on the excursion to Teide, the following stands out:
“(…) Likewise, contacted with the company that organizes the reports of the
excursion to Teide, Videotravel, S.L. it has informed us that after the introduction
of the guide who makes the excursion, the person who makes the film is introduced to the group.
video which reports on their activity before starting the recording, explaining
considering the work to be done, as well as the content of the final product,
being the acquisition of the same totally voluntary. At the end of that presentation
Emphasis is placed on observing that the person who does not want to be recorded must do so
know and his decision is always respected, recommending that so that he does not feel
excluded when making the tours is placed behind the camera so that person
pass first and in this way it is not recorded (…)”.
SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the Data Inspection SG proceeded to carry out
tions for clarification, in accordance with article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
digital data (hereinafter LOPDGDD). Thus, dated 12/02/19, and reference number
N/Ref.: E/11356/2019, a written request for information was addressed to the entity
ity MUNDOSENIOR PLUS U.T.E.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

THIRD: On 12/30/19, the entity MUNDO SENIOR PLUES UTE., sends to
this Agency, written, in which it informs, among others, of:

“That, upon receipt by the UTE MUNDOSENIOR PLUS of the letter of re-
claim filed by the claimant dated May 14, 2019, it was decided
transfer the same to LEISURE AND TOURISM NOVOTOURS AIE, agency that organizes the
excursion to the Teide National Park object of claim and to VIDEOTRAVEL S.L.,
company that makes and markets the videos in the aforementioned park as the only company
is authorized to make recordings in the Timanfaya National Park and in the
Teide National Park, since the UTE MUNDOSENIOR PLUS and OCIO Y TU-
RISMO NOVOTOURS, AIE are not responsible or in charge of the treatment of di-
many recordings, so they do not carry out the capture, treatment or co-
marketing of the video images of the excursion to the National Park.
The response from OCIO Y TURISMO NOVOTOURS AIE was sent to the complainant with
dated September 18, 2019, which is attached to the file of this AEPD, in
the complaint, in its annex 2. This response included the corresponding explanations
cations requested from VIDEOTRAVEL S.L. about the procedure followed by the same
ma to make the recordings during the aforementioned excursion. that in no
moment the interested party has expressed his intention to exercise one of the rights
Regulated in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD.
That the causes that have motivated the claim may have their origin in the fact that the
complainant did not adequately receive and understand the information provided on
the aspects related to the development of the excursion to Teide, the recording in
video and subsequent marketing of the same among those attending the excursion through
part of VIDEOTRAVEL, S.L.
That in order to prevent similar incidents from occurring, the company has been insisted
VIDEOTRAVEL S.L. in that it must clearly inform about the recordings,
offer a simple mechanism to allow people who do not want it not to
appear in the video and make sure everyone attending the tour has re-
received and understood the information that is transferred to them in this regard.
On the other hand, the workers of LEISURE AND TOURISM NOVOTOURS
AIE that, by providing the descriptive information of the excursion to travelers in the mo-
moment of your hiring, report the possible existence of the recording service
carried out by VIDEOTRAVEL S.L.
That neither the UTE MUNDOSENIOR PLUS, nor LEISURE AND TOURISM NOVOTOURS AIE, in
under no circumstances do they commission or participate in any way in the collection, treatment and
commercialization of the images of the video of the excursion to Teide. that none of
The two entities hold the figure of Responsible or Person in Charge of the Treatment
about these recordings, which are the sole responsibility of the company VI-
DEOTRAVEL S.L”.
THIRD: On 07/20/20, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the entity claimed, by virtue of
the established powers, for failing to comply with the provisions of articles 13 and 7 of the RGPD,
imposing an initial sanction of warning.
FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the entity claimed, by means of a document of faith
cha 08/03/20, made, in summary, the following allegations:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

“That the activity of our company consists of the elaboration of documentaries of
the Island, personalized to each group of visitors, since 2004:
1. That in the previous meeting that takes place the day before, everyone is informed that the
have contracted, that the excursion is going to be recorded, it is also reported that if any
Someone who does not want to be recorded indicates so that the cameraman does not record it. 2. That at
next day when you get on the bus, you are informed again and it is requested that if any-
If someone does not want to be recorded, please indicate so that this does not happen. 3. In re-
In relation to this we have to say that we are surprised by the denouncer's exposition, since
it denies what happens every day in the different excursions that we cover. Both in the
prior meeting such as on the bus if the recording is reported and it is requested that if any-
someone does not want to be recorded to say it and it is not recorded. The recorded documentary
offered exclusively to the components of the excursion, who have already seen each other
them and have shared the event.4. It is kept for 30 days. At 30 days they are
destroyed. 5. That the sole purpose of the recording is to propose a memory to the
attendees to the excursions, and of the magnificent environment that they visit and circumscribe ex-
Exclusively to attendees who do not mind being recorded in order to carry out the
Totally private documentary for these people.6. That in the parks of our
environment, visitors are recorded in the different attractions without them having the possibility
to say no, then they buy or not and of course it is equally destroyed. 7.
In no case do the images leave the private sphere of the group, they are not uploaded to re-
undisclosed or exposed on the internet.
For these reasons, we understand that our action criteria regarding the LOPD,
is correct, however, please would we be willing to improve our performance
tion, indicate in what topics and we will proceed to update the protocol. The recordings
broadcasts on public streets by television stations do not require express authorization.
only from passers-by if they see the camera and do not agree with being recorded
they warn the producer in the same way at sporting events soccer concerts
bulls etc. take out the public without prior authorization, so we understand that
is our own environment and always indicating to clients that they will be taxed and
who do not want it can communicate it so that they do not do it.

FIFTH: On 10/27/20, the entity claimed was notified of the proposed
resolution in which it is proposed that, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data protection is sanctioned with "WARNING" for violation of articles
13 and 7 of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2) of the aforementioned Re-
glament.

SIXTH: After notification of the proposed resolution, dated 11/09/20, the entity
claimed entity presents a brief of allegations, in which it is indicated: “answer to
your procedure ps/00181/2020 received on 10/27/2020 having received from
the Spanish agency for data protection, resolution proposal before the file
I open you with number ps / 00181/2020, we present ". However, in it, it is not
do not attach any annexed document to it.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and do-
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- The claimant denounces that, during his vacations in Tenerife, from 16 to 25
April 2019, contracted an extra excursion to Teide that took place on April 21,
2019.
2º.- On April 17, 2019, according to the complaint, he was called to an informative meeting
in the halls of the hotel, but at no time during the meeting was he informed of what
the excursion was going to be recorded, so the Agency did not ask him at any time
neither verbal nor written authorization. In the hotel hall there was a sheet explaining the ex-
tour, but neither in any section of it was anything indicated about the gra-
tour bation.
3º.- The complaint continues indicating that, when getting on the bus to start the excursion, the
The guide informed that they would proceed to make a recording of the excursion, but in no case.
In no case did he request verbal or written authorization to carry out the same.
4º.- The claimant submitted written complaints to the organizing entities of the ex-
course, “Mundo Senior Plus UTE” and “NOVO TOURS AIE”.
5º.- Among the responses given by the entity NOVO TOURS AIE, to the claimant,
Regarding the recording made on the excursion to Teide, the following stands out:
“(…) Likewise, contacted with the company that organizes the reports of the
excursion to Teide, Videotravel, S.L. it has informed us that after the introduction
of the guide who makes the excursion, the person who makes the film is introduced to the group.
video which reports on their activity before starting the recording, explaining
considering the work to be done, as well as the content of the final product,
being the acquisition of the same totally voluntary. At the end of that presentation
Emphasis is placed on observing that the person who does not want to be recorded must do so
know and his decision is always respected, recommending that so that he does not feel
excluded when making the tours is placed behind the camera so that person
pass first and in this way it is not recorded (…)”.
6º.- Open sanction file against the entity that made the filming of the ex-
cursión, Videotravel SL, this, in the period of allegations, presents written before this
Agency in which, among others, indicates that:
-In the previous meeting that takes place the day before, all those who have attended it are informed
contracted, that the excursion is going to be recorded, it is also reported that if someone
you do not want to be recorded that you indicate so that the cameraman does not record it.
-The next day when you get on the bus, you are informed again and asked if
someone does not want to be recorded, please indicate so that this does not happen.
-(…) Both in the previous meeting and on the bus if the recording is reported and
requests that if someone does not want to be recorded, they say so and it is not recorded.(...).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

II

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
awareness of the AEPD, a vision of the denounced action that has been reflected
gives in the facts declared proven above related. However, on the allegations
tions presented by the entity claimed at the initiation of the file, indicate what
Next:
On the one hand, article 13 of the RGPD establishes the information that must be provided.
inform the interested party at the time of collecting their personal data. In the pre-
In this case, before starting the video report of the excursion. In par-
particular, information must be provided on:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
tant; b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable; c) the
purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis of the treatment.
treatment; d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the
legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party; e) recipients or categories
of recipients of personal data, where appropriate; f) if applicable, the intention of the
responsible for transferring personal data to a third country or international organization
and the existence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or, in the
case of the transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, section
1, second paragraph, reference to adequate or appropriate guarantees and means
to obtain a copy of these or to the fact that they have been loaned.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained,
them, the following information necessary to guarantee fair data processing and
transparent: a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when
where this is not possible, the criteria used to determine this term; b) existence
the right to request access to personal data from the data controller
relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its treatment,
or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to data portability; c)
when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9,
paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any
moment, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the consent
prior to its withdrawal; d) the right to lodge a complaint with a law enforcement authority
control; e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to make
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data; f) the existence of automated decisions, including the preparation
of profiles, referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
foreseen consequences of said treatment for the interested party.
On the other hand, article 6.1 of the RGPD, indicates that the treatment will only be lawful if the in-
interested party gave their consent, “for the treatment of their personal data for one

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

or several specific purposes”, and of course, once you have been provided with all the
information established in article 13 of the RGPD, cited above.
In relation to this article 6.1, article 7 of the RGPD, indicates, on the consent
yup, the following:
"1. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the person in charge
You must be able to demonstrate that you consented to the processing of your personal data.
nals. 2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a declaration
written that also refers to other matters, the request for consent is pre-
will be laid out in such a way that it is clearly distinguished from other matters, in an intelligent way.
legible and easily accessible and using clear and simple language. It will not be binding
any part of the declaration that constitutes an infringement of these Regulations. 3. The
Interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any time. the withdrawal-
The consent will not affect the legality of the treatment based on the consent.
lien prior to withdrawal. Before giving their consent, the interested party will be informed
mad of it. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it. 4. In assessing whether the
consent has been freely given, it will be taken into account to the greatest extent possible.
whether, among other things, the performance of a contract, including the provision
of a service, is subject to consent to the processing of personal data that
are not necessary for the execution of said contract”.
In relation to these last two articles cited, recital (32) of the RGPD,
establishes that:
“Consent must be given through a clear affirmative act that reflects a
Free, specific, informed, and unequivocal declaration of the interested party's
accept the treatment of personal data that concerns you… Therefore, the
silence, pre-ticked boxes, or inaction should not constitute consent. The
Consent must be given for all processing activities carried out with the
same or the same ends. When the treatment has several purposes, the
consent for all of them…”
Article 6.2 of the LOPDGDD indicates, on the treatment based on the consent of the
affected, that: “2. When it is intended to base the treatment of the data on the consent
protection of the affected party for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to include
specific and unequivocal way that said consent is granted for all of them.
Well, in accordance with everything stated above, the processing of data
requires the existence of a legal basis that legitimizes it, as in this case, the con-
sentiment of the interested party validly, expressly and affirmatively.
It is NOT valid, as in the case at hand, to claim that it was asked before starting
zar the recordings of the report: "if someone does not agree with being filmed,
to indicate it so as not to take him out in the report …”, since it is not proven that he was
provided all the information on the processing of personal data that establishes
ce article 13 of the RGPD.

Regarding the allegations of the entity claimed in which it indicates that: "(...) The
Recordings on public streets by television stations do not require authorization.
express consent of passers-by only if they see the camera and do not agree that
they were recorded, they warn the producer in the same way in sporting events with-
certain soccer bulls etc. take out the public without prior authorization (...)”, indicate that
the ultimate goal of the reports made by the entity in the different excursions,
is to do a job for a price, having nothing to do with the recordings
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

tions made by the TV cameras when they carry out such work with an informa-
mative.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection Sheet.

RESOLVE

FIRST: Warn the entity VIDEOTRAVEL S.L. with CIF.: B38756854, for the in-
fraction of articles 13 and 7 of the RGPD, regarding the information provided to
customers about the processing of their personal data and collection of their consent
I lie.
SECOND: Notify this resolution to the entity, VIDEOTRAVEL S.L

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

