711.403.1

P r e s s e release

July 30, 2019

Data protection for elementary schools - revised and expanded offer

The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, published
today their completely revised media education offer. Find it at www.data-kids.de
Elementary school children, teachers and parents extensive materials to help them in the
to better navigate the world of data protection.

Louder, more colourful, more interactive
The Berlin data protection officer has set itself the goal of protecting children as early as possible
to raise awareness for the protection of their data. To achieve this, launched the
Authority in the spring of 2018 a hitherto unique media-pedagogical offer that specifically
Addresses children of primary school age and their parents and teachers. the ones offered there
Materials were thoroughly scrutinized this year and, with the help of the
Feedback from students completely revised and expanded.
In a new, colorful design, the extended range now also includes interactive web modules,
Printable games and activity books. Newly developed figures lead children into the
complex and abstract world of data protection. A child-friendly, descriptive encyclopedia
explains the most important terms relating to the fundamental right to informational self-determination.

Privacy in the classroom
As a special offer on the occasion of the relaunch of www.data-kids.de, Berliners can
Primary schools apply for project hours in the first half of the 2019/2020 school year, which the Berliner
Data protection officers for schools offers to work together with the children and teachers
to discover the new materials. Both the students and the
Lecturers can ask their questions about data protection and
Provide suggestions for the media education offer of the data protection officer
should be continuously developed and adapted to the needs of the target groups.

Interested elementary schools should send their application by e-mail from now on
medienkompetenz@datenschutz-berlin.de.

Maja Smoltczyk:
“Privacy is a fundamental right that applies to children and adults alike. In one of
In a world shaped by big data, data protection is a key competence in our society. It is
It is therefore important to me to address the subject of data protection as early as possible
convey to elementary school children. I am sure that our new offer will also appeal to teachers and
parents will be very well supported in this goal.”

Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Kerstin Stein

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de

Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

Tel: 030 13889 - 0
Fax: 030 2155050

