 

 

 

 

 

43rd Closed Session of the Global Privacy Assembly 

October 2021 

Adopted resolution on the Assembly’s Strategic Direction (2021-23) 

SPONSORS:  

• 

Information Commissioner’s Office, United Kingdom (Chair GPA) 

 

CO-SPONSORS:  

• 

Information and Data Protection Commissioner, Albania 

•  Agencia de Acceso a la Information Publica, Argentina 

•  Office of the Australian Information Commissioner, Australia 

•  National Commission for Informatics and Liberties, Burkina Faso 

•  Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Germany 

•  National Institute for Transparency, Access to Information and Personal Data Protection, 

Mexico 

•  Office of the Privacy Commissioner (Te Mana Mātāpono Matatapu), New Zealand 

•  Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada 

•  National Privacy Commission, Philippines 

•  European Data Protection Supervisor, European Union 

•  Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data, Hong Kong, China 

•  National Commission for the Control and the Protection of Personal Data, Morocco 

•  Commission nationale de l’informatique et des libertés, France 

•  Office of the Privacy Commissioner, Bermuda 

 

1 

The 43rd Global Privacy Assembly 2021: 
  
Recalling that: 
 

a.  The 33rd International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners, now the 

Global Privacy Assembly (GPA) adopted rules and procedures that anticipated the closed 
session defining the Assembly’s ‘strategic direction’1; 
 

b.  The closed session forms a core element of the Assembly and provides all members with the 

opportunity to participate in setting the Assembly’s strategic priorities; 
 

c.  The 40th GPA adopted a Resolution on a Roadmap on the Future of the International 

Conference2, which recognised the importance of increasing the Assembly’s ambition in co-
ordinating common positions and key messages towards governments and decision-makers 
on key policy issues identified in the field of privacy and data protection; 
 

d.  The 41st GPA adopted a Resolution on the Conference’s Strategic Direction 2019-213, 
setting out a new strategic plan and the GPA’s first policy strategy. This was a crucial 
moment in the evolution of the GPA, furthering its ambition to become the global forum for 
privacy and data protection authorities, advancing effective regulatory cooperation for data 
protection and privacy at the international level. 

Recognising that: 

 

e.  The 2019-21 strategy provided for real modernisation and progress to take place, creating a 

year round platform for practical regulatory cooperation. The foundations built in terms of 
the development of the GPA’s structure and governance, and the work delivered by the GPA 
and its working groups, provide a strong basis for the new strategic plan;  
 

f.  The environment within which the GPA and its members regulate has changed since the last 

plan was adopted, as the global pandemic has significantly accelerated digitalisation and 
data-driven innovation. The GPA more than ever needs an influential and collective voice, 
and a constructive global policy and regulatory approach to enable those innovations that 
improve the lives of our citizens, while also effectively protecting their rights. 

 

 

 

1 See the GPA Rules and Procedures , clause 2.2 (i) 
2 FOTC - Roadmap to Implement Recommendations (globalprivacyassembly.org)  
3 Resolution on the Conference Strategic Direction 2019 - 2021 FINAL (globalprivacyassembly.org)  

 

2 

The 43rd Global Privacy Assembly therefore resolves to: 
 

1.  Adopt the Strategic Plan 2021 - 2023 set out in the Annex, to commence immediately.  

 

2.  Direct the Executive Committee at the appropriate time to review the Assembly’s strategic 
priorities and prepare, for consideration at the 45th Global Privacy Assembly Closed Session, 
a revised set of strategic priorities and implementation plan to commence in 2023.  
 

3.  Authorise the Executive Committee to convene committees or working groups to assist with 

implementation of the Strategic Plan or review. 

 

Annex to the Resolution on the Assembly’s Strategic Direction (2021-23) - SEE 
OVERLEAF 
 

 

 

3 

 

 

 

4 

Contents 
 

GPA Strategic Plan 2021 – 2023 .......................................................................................................... 6 
The Vision ....................................................................................................................................... 6 
The Mission ..................................................................................................................................... 6 
Strategic Priorities 2021 – 2023 ...................................................................................................... 6 
Introduction ........................................................................................................................................ 7 
Background to the 2021-23 Strategic Plan ...................................................................................... 7 
Implementation of the Strategic Plan 2021-23 ................................................................................... 9 
Three pillars of collaborative work .................................................................................................. 9 
Delivering the Strategic Priorities ..................................................................................................... 10 
Strategic Priority 1: Advancing global privacy in an age of accelerated digitalisation ................... 10 
Strategic Priority 2: Maximising the GPA voice and influence ....................................................... 10 
Maximising the GPA voice and influence: actions ..................................................................... 11 
Strategic Priority 3: Capacity building .......................................................................................... .11 
Pillar #1: Global frameworks and standards.................................................................................. 13 
Pillar #1 Global Frameworks and standards: actions ................................................................. 14 
Pillar #2: Regulatory and enforcement cooperation ..................................................................... 15 
Practical enforcement cooperation ........................................................................................... 15 
Cross regulatory cooperation .................................................................................................... 15 
Pillar #2 Regulatory and enforcement cooperation: actions ..................................................... 16 
Pillar #3: Policy focus areas ........................................................................................................... 18 
Data sharing for the public good ............................................................................................... 18 
Data sharing: actions ................................................................................................................. 19 
AI, biometrics and surveillance technologies ............................................................................ 20 
AI, biometrics and surveillance technologies: actions ............................................................... 21 
         Protecting children's online privacy………………………………………………………………………………………..22 

Data protection and other rights and freedoms ....................................................................... 23 
Other Rights and freedoms: actions .......................................................................................... 23 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 

GPA Strategic Plan 2021 – 2023 
 
The Vision 
 
An environment in which privacy and data protection authorities worldwide can practically fulfil 
their mandates, both individually and in concert, to ensure high standards of data protection 
globally and promote and facilitate effective regulatory cooperation.  

 

The Mission  
 
The Global Privacy Assembly (GPA) seeks: 

•  To be a highly effective global forum for privacy and data protection authorities.  
•  To provide regulatory and policy leadership at the international level in data protection and 

privacy. 

•  To connect and support efforts at domestic and regional level, and in other international 
forums, to enable authorities to better protect and promote privacy and data protection.  

•  To disseminate knowledge, provide practical assistance, and help authorities to more 

effectively perform their mandates.  

•  To facilitate cooperation on cross border data flows. 

 

Strategic Priorities 2021 – 2023  
 
1. Advancing Global Privacy in an Age of Accelerated Digitalisation  

•  Work towards a global regulatory environment with clear and consistently high standards of 

data protection, as digitalisation continues at pace. 
 

2. Maximising the GPA's voice and influence 

•  Enhance the GPA’s role and voice in broader digital policy.  
•  Strengthen relationships with other international bodies and networks advancing data 

protection and privacy issues, including through observer arrangements.  
 

3. Capacity Building for the GPA and its Members  

•  Support Members’ shared learning from experiences, strategies and best practices, 

including cooperation and capacity building tools. 

•  Recognise and strengthen the importance of working together to ensure a coordinated 

response to data protection and privacy issues. 

 

6 

Introduction 
 

The 2021-23 Strategic Plan will build on the successful foundations provided by the 2019-21 Plan – 
an evolution. The GPA’s focus remains on enhancing regulatory cooperation, to ensure its members 
deliver optimal regulatory and policy outcomes, via collaboration, both within GPA and with global 
stakeholders, as they face new digital challenges and common global societal risks.   

The GPA will achieve this by putting an Implementation Plan in place. This Plan replaces the Policy 
Strategy of the 2019-21 Strategic Plan and sets out how all three strategic priorities will be 
delivered, while still retaining the focus on key policy themes. The Implementation Plan highlights 
the key policy themes the GPA will focus on in 2021-23, and sets out actions to deliver outputs on 
those key themes. It also sets out how those actions will deliver our strategic priorities.  

 

Background to the 2021-23 Strategic Plan  
 

The GPA 2019-21 Strategic Plan included a Policy Strategy. The Policy Strategy set out how the GPA 
was to implement the first strategic priority of that Plan and to strengthen the GPA’s core policy 
role and influence in advancing privacy and data protection at the international level. This was a 
crucial development in the evolution of the GPA, furthering its ambition to become the global 
forum for privacy and data protection authorities, a more dynamic platform for international 
cooperation and policy influence, and a year-round permanent network advancing data protection 
and privacy at the international level.  

The GPA has made strong progress against the 2019-21 Strategic Plan and associated Policy 
Strategy; key achievements include: 

•  A foundational piece of work that analysed commonalities of multilateral data protection 
and privacy frameworks. This work is already informing GPA discussions with multilateral 
bodies and international organisations. 

•  A new resolution on accountability when implementing AI, delivering the intent of the 2018 

AI Declaration. 

•  GPA engagement with and/or submissions to the UN, OECD and others on children’s privacy 

issues. 

•  An enhanced focus on facilitating practical enforcement cooperation. This has led to 

interested members issuing statements on cryptocurrencies and videoconferencing, and 
creating ‘safe space’ discussions to share regulatory enforcement approaches to key data 
protection and privacy issues of a global nature. 

•  Targeted engagement on digital economy issues based on an agreed GPA narrative, bring a 

• 

combined global data protection voice to ongoing debates. 
Influential Executive Committee statements on contact tracing and the use of health data 
for domestic and international travel purposes in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 

 

 

 

 

7 

 

As well as these successes, the GPA also responded to the Covid-19 pandemic with the creation of a 
new Task Force in May 2020 (now established as a temporary Working Group) which delivered a 
series of webinars and created a repository of resources to build capacity as member authorities 
advised on their Governments’ pandemic responses.  

However it is vital to recognise that the environment within which GPA members regulate has 
changed since the last Strategic Plan was adopted in 2019. The global pandemic has significantly 
accelerated digitalisation in both the public and private sectors, making significant changes to the 
way people live, work, travel, learn and socialise, and how services are delivered. The world 
increasingly operates online, and this has clear implications for data protection and privacy. The 
GPA must continue to strive to be an active platform which is able to influence and engage on 
issues to ensure the DPA voice remains relevant on evolving issues. To assist this, the refreshed 
Strategic Plan will adopt an Implementation Plan (in lieu of the Policy Strategy). The 
Implementation Plan will have clear, practical actions that implement each of the three GPA 
Strategic Priorities, rather than a focus solely on policy development. It is more important than ever 
that the GPA and its members collaborate to enable innovative changes to take place in a way that 
benefits society and protects our citizens from data protection and privacy risks. 

 

 

8 

Implementation of the Strategic Plan 2021-23 

 
Three pillars of collaborative work 
 
The 2021-23 Strategic Plan continues to focus on the three pillars of collaborative work highlighted 
in the previous Plan, which represent foundational concerns common to all GPA members. We seek 
to achieve our strategic objectives through focusing on these foundational issues which 
complement and strengthen the regulatory co-operation between members of the GPA. The three 
pillars are: 

•  Pillar #1 Global Frameworks and Standards  
•  Pillar #2 Enforcement Co-operation 
•  Pillar #3 Policy Focus Areas 

 

 

The actions under these pillars are designed to support the delivery of all three Strategic Priorities, 
though some activities will be of more relevance to some of the priorities than others. 

 

 

9 

The GPA Vision: An environment in which privacy and data protection authorities worldwide can practically fulfil their mandates, both individually and in concert, to ensure high standards of data protection globally and promote and facilitate effective regulatory cooperation.   Data sharing for  the public good  AI, biometrics and surveillance technologies Protecting children’s online privacy Data protection and other rights and freedoms Evolution towards  global policy, standards  and models Practical enforcement  co-operation Cross-regulatory co-operation 1. Advancing global privacy in an age of accelerated digitalisation 2. Maximising the GPA’s voice and influence 3. Capacity building for GPA members Delivering the Strategic Priorities 
 
 
Strategic Priority 1: Advancing global privacy in an age of accelerated digitalisation 
 
Accelerating digitalisation is now a constant feature across the globe. In both the public and private 
sectors, it is making significant changes to the way people live, work, travel, learn and socialise, and 
how services are delivered. The world increasingly operates online, and this has clear implications 
for data protection and privacy, and also more broadly for ethical and societal considerations.  

The GPA will continue to work towards a global regulatory environment with clear and consistently 
high standards of data protection. Specific actions to deliver Strategic Priority 1 can be found in the 
Actions tables under Pillars 1, 2 and 3. 

 
 
Strategic Priority 2: Maximising the GPA voice and influence  
 
This touches upon every aspect of our work and provides mechanisms by which the GPA can 
engage and influence on priority policy topics. One way we can do this is by engaging and 
influencing other international fora. This work will enhance the GPA’s role and voice in wider digital 
policy, and strengthen its relationships with other international organisations, bodies and networks 
advancing data protection and privacy issues.  

A key achievement of the GPA last year was the membership’s adoption of the Joint Statement 
mechanism. This was an important milestone in the evolution of the GPA and enables GPA 
members to maximise their voice and influence, throughout the year, by developing and publishing 
joint statements on emerging and novel issues as they arise. This mechanism provides the 
membership with continued real and valuable opportunities to make the GPA’s voice and position 
on issues known, particularly in a post-COVID-19 reality where privacy is high on the public 
agendas.   

There are two key areas where the GPA will continue to develop its approach under the 2021-23 
Strategic Plan: 

Engagement with other multilateral fora: Increasingly, the work of international organisations such 
as the OECD, G20, WHO, WTO, ISO, Council of Europe and WEF touches on data protection and 
privacy issues, particularly around ensuring trust in the digital economy and facilitation of data 
flows around the globe. GPA has well developed relationships with some of these organisations (as 
shown in the case study below) whilst others are nascent. In 2021-23 the GPA will focus on 
opportunities for deeper, active stakeholder engagement to further the GPA agenda.    

 

10 

Case Study 

The GPA’s work with OECD in 2020 had real impact. Collaborating with the OECD in delivering 
two workshops on COVID-19 brought together governments, data protection authorities, 
international organisations, technology companies, academics and other stakeholders to 
share learning and ensure that innovative responses to the pandemic adopted good data 
protection practice – amplifying the GPA’s key messages and making a real difference to 
global and national discussions about technology-based solutions and privacy safeguards.  

 

 

Strengthening Engagement by Working Groups and Observers: In 2019-21, there has been 
increased activity in external engagement by the GPA working groups and through observer 
arrangements. The GPA ExCo Strategic Direction Sub-Committee (SDSC) is starting to take a 
coordination role. In 2019-21 this has involved hosting ‘deep dive’ meetings for working group 
chairs, where engagement and other working group activities are discussed, and the provision of 
resources for GPA observers to other fora to use to engage effectively and to amplify the GPA’s key 
messages. The SDSC also analysed the first use of the new Joint Statement mechanism and 
suggested guidance for future Statements in the GPA, including the involvement of GPA Working 
Groups in their development. 

The GPA will build on this positive starting point. Shared priorities and objectives will be identified 
where they have not already, and the communication channels between the GPA and international 
organisations will be reviewed to optimise delivery of key learnings to the GPA membership, and 
maximise opportunities for the GPA voice to be heard.  More opportunities for new Joint 
Statements will also be actively explored. The GPA will also continue to challenge itself – not just 
influencing and engaging in fora traditionally focused on data protection and privacy, but also fora 
engaged in the broader digital landscape. 

 

Maximising the GPA voice and influence: actions 
 

Actions to deliver Strategic Priority 2 can be found in the Actions tables under Pillars 1, 2 and 3. We 
will also work on two additional actions to engage and influence other international fora:  

 

 

Action 

Link to strategic priority 

Owner 

Continue to consider the 
GPA’s international 
stakeholder map,  such as 
exploring opportunities 
with existing stakeholders. 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s 
voice and influence. 

Strategic Direction Sub-Committee 

 

 

11 

Deepen engagement with 
existing stakeholders by 
actively seeking new 
activities for more 
significant impact, voice 
and influence. 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s 
voice and influence. 

 

All GPA Working Groups to include 
in their work plans and in their 
interim and annual reports how 
they will deliver on this action.  The 
Strategic Direction Sub-Committee 
will have a coordination and review 
role. 

 

 

Strategic Priority 3: Capacity building 
 
The GPA has more than 130 members of varying size and enforcement powers. We all use the GPA 
as a forum to share our expertise and learn from others. It’s a community where no GPA member 
faces their regulatory challenges alone. GPA recognises the importance of working together to 
ensure there are coordinated approaches to address data protection and privacy issues. The GPA 
provides resources and best practices on many of the common issues we face. We have also held 
capacity building workshops. 

 

The GPA will continue to work to build capacity for our members, to share the policy, regulatory 
and technical knowledge and expertise we all need to protect our citizens. Specific actions to 
deliver Strategic Priority 3 can be found in the Actions tables under Pillars 1, 2 and 3. 

   

 

12 

Pillar #1: Global frameworks and standards 
 
The reality and challenges of the global digital economy continue to highlight the need for 
mechanisms to ensure that personal data is protected wherever it is processed and flows. 

Global frameworks and standards can promote high standards of data protection and privacy, thus 
supporting convergence and interoperability. This is essential for regulatory co-operation, 
supporting the secure and smooth flow of data across borders. The voice of the GPA can be of an 
expert and independent adviser. The GPA can play a unique role, focused on the importance of 
promoting high standards for data protection and privacy -  advising on the practical principles and 
steps that enable data flows at international level, by reinforcing mutual trust. While not all 
members of the GPA have a function for advising on the development of laws, this pillar also 
considers the GPA’s influence of development of international instruments and standards, with the 
GPA’s work on analysing global frameworks and cross border transfer mechanisms contributing to 
the promotion of shared understanding of high standards.  

 

 

Case study 

The GPA completed an analysis of ten global data protection frameworks in 2020. This work 
highlighted convergence and commonalities, particularly in relation to core principles, 
between the frameworks. A more detailed analysis of cross border transfer mechanisms will 
be delivered in 2021, which is likely to include some recommendations for further follow-up 
in 2021-23. Work on developing common meanings of core data protection terms has 
commenced on a rolling programme, with additional core terms anticipated to be added in 
the coming years.   

 

With the OECD’s work to supplement the Privacy Guidelines, and the G7, G20 and WTO taking a 
closer interest in issues related to data flows with trust, there will be an opportunity to further 
engage and influence through a clearer articulation of the GPA’s view of high standards for data 
protection and privacy and the vital role that independent data protection authorities play, for 
example by promoting the ongoing work of the GPA on access by government to personal data held 
by the private sector for national and public security purposes. To achieve this, the work done in 
2019-21 will be built upon, to start to develop a roadmap towards an overarching resolution or 
policy statement to articulate the GPA’s view of high standards. The GPA will also work to develop 
more formalised relationships with other fora undertaking similar work. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13 

Pillar #1 Global Frameworks and standards: actions 
 

Action 

Link to strategic priority 

Owner 

Building on work done in 2019-21, 
work towards a resolution or 
policy statement to articulate the 
GPA’s view of high data protection 
and privacy standards. 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated digitalisation.  

 

SP3 – capacity building for 
members. 

Global frameworks 
and standards 
Working Group4 

Develop formalised relationships 
with other fora undertaking similar 
work, taking into account work 
done by SDSC on stakeholder 
engagement where appropriate. 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

Global frameworks 
and standards 
Working Group 

 

 
 

 

 

4 This is the renamed Policy Strategy Working Group, workstream 1  

 

14 

Pillar #2: Regulatory and enforcement cooperation 
 
Practical enforcement cooperation 
 
The International Enforcement Cooperation Working Group (IEWG) is a permanent Working Group 
of the GPA. The emphasis on creating an environment that supports practical enforcement 
cooperation on current and pressing issues has delivered some real success as the IEWG’s ‘Safe 
Space’ sessions led to not only useful exchanges of knowledge and information on live issues, but 
also contributed to concrete initiatives such as the ICO-OAIC joint investigation into Clearview AI 
and an open letter to video conferencing companies which is leading to practical engagement with 
the sector.  

Case Study 

The IEWG Safe Space sessions provide members with a confidential environment to discuss 
live, developing and current privacy and enforcement matters of global priority and to 
explore collaborative opportunities where they exist. 

The IEWG runs several sessions per year, focussing on topics of global relevance; these may 
centre on specific incidents or organisations, or take in broader issues and emerging trends. 

Of particular note was a session focussing on video-teleconferencing (VTC) platforms and 
another on the issue of credential stuffing attacks. Both resulted in the formation of 
subgroups to progress joint actions. The VTC subgroup has issued a statement and 
undertaken coordinated engagement with several VTC companies to improve privacy 
practices in the industry. 

The IEWG has developed a safe space framework (to be renamed ‘closed enforcement 
session framework’), setting out the process and providing all IEWG members with the tools 
to host their own sessions. This general framework is to be made available on the GPA 
enforcement repository. 

 

 

This area of focus clearly contributes to the GPA’s vision and strategic priorities – fostering a global 
regulatory environment of high standards of data protection and privacy, and capacity building.  

It will be essential that momentum is maintained, and these foundations are strengthened, 
broadened and used effectively over the next two years. 

Cross regulatory cooperation  
 
The growing digital economy is driving increasing volumes and scope of data collection. As society 
increasingly operates online, concerns have persisted about global online platforms, and their 
breadth of access to, and control of, personal data. These issues should remain high on the GPA’s 
agenda, alongside the recognition that data protection and privacy authorities cannot regulate 
alone and, especially where there may be other overlapping or intersecting regulatory regimes, 
must cooperate with regulators from other sectors.  

 

15 

In recent years the GPA’s Digital Citizen and Consumer Working Group (DCCWG) has worked on 
regulatory intersection issues between our work in data privacy, consumer protection and 
competition regulation. This work has attracted global and domestic attention by key stakeholders 
and is essential to many of our members, with digital regulatory cooperation increasingly on 
domestic agendas across the globe. Given the sustained relevance of the DCCWG’s work and the 
important role cross-regulatory cooperation will take in the coming years, the DCCWG will become 
a permanent working group from October 2021. 

Developing a GPA focus on cross-regulatory cooperation will benefit the wider membership as 
societies and economies increasingly adopt digital approaches that may trigger varied and multiple 
regulatory concerns. As citizens do more online, the reach of global online platforms is broadened. 
That sheer breadth of access to, and control of, the data of global citizens means that joined-up 
regulatory approaches are of clear interest and benefit. The GPA should give priority focus to this 
theme, and reinforce the overarching message that data protection and privacy authorities will 
most effectively regulate digital economy and online platforms as part of a joined-up approach with 
other regulators in the digital space, and to look to ways in which cross-regulatory cooperation can 
be facilitated.  This could include an agreed articulation of the synergies and tensions between data 
protection and other regimes, and how regulators can work together to address them. 

 

Pillar #2 Regulatory and enforcement cooperation: actions 
 

Action 

Link to strategic priority 

Owner 

SP3 – capacity building for 
members. 

 

International 
Enforcement 
Cooperation 
Working Group 

Build skills and capacity among 
members, particularly in relation to 
enforcement strategies; 
investigation processes; cooperation 
in practice; and breach assessment. 
Broaden participation by increasing 
the linguistic, cultural and regional 
diversity of contributions to the 
work of the International 
Enforcement Working Group.  

 

Continue monitoring for 
opportunities for enforcement 
cooperation, noting the new and 
emerging digital risks posed to 
individuals’ privacy. 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation.  

 

International 
Enforcement 
Cooperation 
Working Group 

 

 

16 

Continue to use ‘closed 
enforcement’ sessions to share 
concerns, policy positions and 
regulatory experiences on identified 
topics, following up with external 
stakeholders where appropriate. 

SP3 – capacity building for 
members. 

 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

International 
Enforcement 
Cooperation 
Working Group 

 

 

SP3 – capacity building for 
members. 

 

International 
Enforcement 
Cooperation 
Working Group 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

 

Digital Citizen and 
Consumer Working 
Group 

 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation.  

 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation.  

Digital Citizen and 
Consumer Working 
Group 

 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

 

SP3 – capacity building for 
members. 

Identify, explore and develop links 
between the areas of enforcement 
cooperation and cross regulatory 
cooperation. This should include 
engagement with networks of other 
regulatory bodies in sectors such as 
consumer protection, competition 
or anti-trust. 

 

Enhance the focus on practical 
cooperation across different 
sectoral regulators, initially by the 
development of a compendium of 
best practice arrangements for 
cross-regulatory cooperation. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17 

Pillar #3: Policy focus areas 
 

Authorities around the globe continue to develop policy positions on shared societal risks. This 
sphere of work aims to leverage individual policy efforts by creating opportunities to borrow and 
adapt each other’s work to benefit citizens across the world. It will allow us to increase consistency 
across our policy positions, and develop clearer messages to multi-national actors while at the 
same time making the best use of all our limited resources.   

The four areas of policy focus are: 

•  Data sharing for the public good 
•  AI, biometrics and surveillance technologies 
•  Children’s online privacy 
•  Data protection and other rights and freedoms 

 

Data sharing for the public good 
 

As governments respond to the pandemic, there is increased interest in using personal data to 
develop those responses – in many cases to rapidly enable innovative digital solutions in the short 
term, and in the longer term to contribute to the rebuilding of the economy and public services, 
including health care reform. While acknowledging the increased risks posed by innovative 
solutions relying on personal data, a recognition that privacy can enable innovative uses of data by 
securing and maintaining citizen and consumer trust is essential if societies are to maximise the 
benefits of data. Data sharing will remain a key challenge, in terms of solutions that build in privacy 
while enabling use of data in the public interest. Government approaches will require data 
protection and privacy authorities to act as both enablers and protectors. 

The COVID-19 global pandemic has accelerated the growth of digital and data-enabled services like 
never before. Health and location data has become increasingly important as nations strive to 
respond to the crisis. The use of passenger travel data, and citizen and consumer data in general, 
has expanded as attempts are being made to mitigate the health risks of travelling, shopping, 
working and other daily activities.  

There is a renewed interest in when and how personal data can be used – in tracking health 
outcomes, in research, in developing innovative digital solutions and in rebuilding economies. In 
2020 and 2021 the GPA has worked on the immediately pressing issues in this area, by our use of 
joint statements, and by the COVID-19 Working Group.  

 

 

18 

Case Study: 

As governments continued to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 and 2021, the 
importance of returning to full social and economic activity within and across borders led to a 
variety of proposals for the sharing of domestic and international passenger health data 
across a number of entities.  

On 31 March 2021, the GPA Executive Committee issued a Joint Statement on the use of 
health data for domestic or international travel purposes, urging governments and both 
private and public sector organisations to pay due regard to common global data protection 
and privacy principles, such as privacy by design and default, when considering those 
proposals. The Statement was shared with the World Health Organisation and the Vaccine 
Credential Initiative, together with representatives of the global travel industry, and key GPA 
stakeholders.  

The Joint Statement has been welcomed globally, complementing efforts being made at both 
national and regional levels, and contributing to a positive, co-ordinated privacy outcome 
internationally. 

 

It’s foreseen that there will be scope for further work beyond 2021 to address key messages and 
influence that the GPA can uniquely deliver related to governance for data sharing. The focus 
should be on how personal data can be shared and used to enable innovation and growth while 
protecting individual rights and public trust, as the pandemic response develops into rebuilding 
economies and societies. The COVID-19 Working Group will broaden its scope and evolve into a 
Data Sharing Working Group to implement this work. 

 

Data sharing: actions 

Action 

Deliver and promote a 
compendium of best practices on 
data sharing for the public good, 
for data protection and privacy 
authorities to use in conversations 
with governments and other 
stakeholders to demonstrate what 
good data sharing practice looks 
like, and to highlight key principles.   

Link to strategic priority 

Owner 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated digitalisation.  

Data Sharing 
Working Group 

 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

 

SP3 - Capacity building for 
members. 

 

 

 

19 

AI, biometrics and surveillance technologies 
 

Emerging and developing innovative technologies undoubtedly provide opportunities and potential 
value to society. However, many such technologies have significant implications for privacy and the 
potential to harm and unfairly discriminate against our citizens - many involve the processing of 
large volumes of personal data, many process biometric data, and many use complex computer 
systems with algorithms that are not easily explained. 

Surveillance technologies are not only used for security purposes, but increasingly for broader 
contexts at work, in education, and for commercial opportunities, in predicting consumer 
behaviour and assisting the targeting of advertisements. 

A number of these areas are of current strategic interest to the GPA – work is ongoing to develop 
principles on facial recognition technology; repositories of guidelines and principles on AI, and real-
life applications of AI have been created and contributions continue to be added. While the range 
of issues under this theme are broad, the GPA will, on an ongoing basis, identify those areas of 
current and emerging surveillance technology where the GPA’s work should be prioritised. This will 
include utilising the expertise of the GPA Reference Panel as appropriate. 

 

 

 

20 

AI, biometrics and surveillance technologies: actions 

Action 

Link to strategic priority 

Owner 

Continue to implement the 
Resolution on Facial Recognition 
Technology – completing work on 
the development and promotion of 
principles on FRT.  

 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation.  

International 
Enforcement 
Working Group 

 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

 

SP3 - Capacity building for 
members. 

 

Ethics and Data 
Protection in AI 
Working Group 

 

Identify and consider any other 
biometric technologies that the GPA 
should focus on. 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation.  

International 
Enforcement 
Working Group 

 

Consult GPA members on emerging 
technologies of most concern, and 
consider identifying further areas of 
work related to the findings. 

SP3 - Capacity building for 
members. 

Identify and consider topics of focus 
relating to surveillance of citizens 
and consumers in the digital 
economy, such as advertising 
technologies, web scraping, smart 
cities and connected vehicles, and 
monitoring of mobile workers. 

All GPA Working Groups to consider 
emerging technologies relating to 
their area of work and any potential 
privacy or data protection concerns, 
and include in their annual forward 
plans where appropriate. 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation. 

 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation. 

All GPA Working 
Groups  

Ethics and Data 
Protection in AI 
Working Group 

Ethics and Data 
Protection in AI 
Working Group 

 

Digital Economy 
Working Group5 

International 
Enforcement 
Working Group 

5 This is the renamed Policy Strategy Working Group, workstream 2 

 

 

21 

Protecting children's online privacy  
 

Children are particularly vulnerable to the risks associated with the digital environment, given their 
increasingly early and frequent use of a range of technologies. The global pandemic has accelerated 
these practices as never before, which are taking place not only in the home but in the increasingly 
connected school environment.  

The protection of children’s privacy online is more than ever at the heart of the public debate in 
many countries and on the agenda of international organisations. An increasing range of initiatives 
exist at the international level, as illustrated by the recent UN General Comment on the Rights of 
the Child in the Digital Environment and the actions of UNICEF, the OECD, the Council of Europe 
and the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). 

The GPA will continue to support and provide input to such initiatives where appropriate. 

All working groups should consider in their work plans how their mandate and work intersects with 
children’s privacy. 

 

Protecting Children's Online Privacy: actions 
 

Action 

Link to strategic priority 

Owner 

Undertake to provide GPA support 
and input to other international and 
multilateral initiatives to facilitate 
the effective exercise of children’s 
rights appropriate to their level of 
maturity in the digital environment. 

 

All GPA working groups should 
consider the whether and how the 
issue of children’s privacy and the 
exercise of their digital rights 
intersects with their work, and 
where appropriate include in their 
annual forward plan. This should 
take place in coordination with the 
DEWG. 

SP1 - advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation 

Digital Education 
Working Group 
(DEWG) 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

 

SP1 - advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated 
digitalisation 

 

 

 

 

 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

All GPA working 
groups 

SP3 – capacity building for 
members  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

22 

Data protection and other rights and freedoms 
 
At a global level, data protection and privacy rights are enshrined in important global instruments 
such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant of Civil and 
Political Rights. The GPA has taken a keen interest in data protection and privacy and how they 
relate to rights and social protection, and this has been a key policy theme in the 2019-21 policy 
strategy. A narrative on this topic will be submitted for adoption at the 43rd GPA in 2021, to 
highlight and clarify links between privacy and data protection, freedom of expression, political 
rights and freedoms, non discrimination, liberty and security. This work will be a helpful way of 
highlighting potential issues, and there will likely be more targeted work to do, informed by the 
narrative, once adopted. Important developments in 2020-21 have seen the global pandemic 
response re-igniting concerns about employee rights in the light of remote working, and health 
surveillance, as well as individual rights and the freedom to travel. 

 
Other Rights and freedoms: actions 
 

Action 

Link to strategic priority 

Owner 

Consider and take forward 
recommendations from the 
adopted narrative on the integral 
relationship of data protection to 
other rights and freedoms. 

SP1 – advancing global privacy in 
an age of accelerated digitalisation. 

 

Data protection and 
other rights and 
freedoms Working 
Group6 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

 

 

SP3 - Capacity building for 
members. 

Promote the narrative with 
relevant stakeholders. 

SP2 – maximise the GPA’s voice 
and influence. 

Data protection and 
other rights and 
freedoms Working 
Group 

 
 
 

 

 

6 This is the renamed Policy Strategy Working Group, workstream 3 

 

23 

Note: the GPA’s working groups 2021-23 
 

While most Strategic Plan actions are allocated to one or two specified working groups, some 
actions are to be delivered by all working groups. Actions should be periodically reviewed to ensure 
the owners remain the appropriate working group. A list of the GPA’s current working groups for 
2021-23 can be found in the table below. 

   

Working Group 

 

Global Frameworks and Standards Working Group 

Formerly known as 

 

Policy Strategy Working Group, 
workstream 1 

International Enforcement Cooperation Working 
Group 

Digital Citizen and Consumer Working Group 

 

 

Data Sharing Working Group 

COVID-19 Working Group 

Ethics and Data Protection in AI Working Group  

 

Digital Economy Working Group 

Policy Strategy Working Group, 
workstream 2 

Data Protection and other Rights and Freedoms 
Working Group 

Policy Strategy Working Group, 
workstream 3 

Digital Education Working Group 

Personal Data Protection in International 
Development Assistance, International Humanitarian 
Aid and Crisis Management Working Group 

Data Protection Metrics Working Group 

Future of the Conference Working Group 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

24 

