1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00230/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00230/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to D.A.A.A. (hereinafter the defendant), in view of the complaint
presented by D.B.B.B. (hereinafter the claimant), and based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The affected party filed a claim with the Agency dated 12/03/2018
Spanish Data Protection. The writ is directed against the defendant and the
The reasons on which he bases his claim are, in summary, the following: that he has had
knowledge that on 11/29/2018 the publication on Facebook of his May payroll
containing all your personal data on the professional page of the claimed person who
manages the payroll of the company (labour, tax and accounting advice), for which
works.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 02/01/2019, the claim filed for
analysis and communication to the affected party of the decision adopted in this regard. Equally,
he was required so that within a month he sent to the determined Agency
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the

claim and its transfer to the claimed entity.

On 05/23/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the claimant against the respondent.

THIRD: On 07/05/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

FIFTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 12/03/2018 it has entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claimant in which he declares that he has had knowledge of the
11/29/2018 of the publication on Facebook without your consent on the page
professional of the claimed, who manages the payroll of the company for which
works, from your May payroll containing all your personal data.

SECOND: There are provided screen prints of both the profile of the Consultancy
labour, tax and accounting information on Facebook, as well as the professional profile of the person claimed in the
aforementioned social network.

THIRD: There is a screen print of the Facebook page where
The claimant's payroll is published (***URL.1) and in which they appear, in addition to
data of an economic nature, your personal data: name and surnames,
nif, seniority, SS affiliation number, contribution group, etc.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve this procedure.

Yo

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:
a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.

3/6

b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what results
of instruction.

c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with

express indication of the system of recusal of the same.

d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attributes such competence, indicating the possibility that the alleged perpetrator
can voluntarily acknowledge its responsibility, with the effects provided for in the
article 85.

e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those
may adopt during the same in accordance with article 56.

f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in the event
not to carry out
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the agreement
of initiation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a
precise statement about the imputed responsibility.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

The defendant is imputed in this sanctioning procedure a
infringement of article 5.1.f), Principles related to the treatment, of the RGPD that
establishes that:

III

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)”

At the same time, article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

In accordance with the facts proven in this proceeding, the
claimed has violated article 5.1.f), in relation to article 5 of the LOPDGDD,
materialized in the publication on Facebook, on the professional page of the consultancy
labour, tax and accounting in which he works, without the consent or authorization of the
affected from your payroll for the month of May containing, in addition to
economic data, data of a personal nature of the same violating the duty of
confidentiality.

IV

Article 83.5. a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned GDPR, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72, for prescription purposes, establishes:

“Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

However, article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: “Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations. About
when it is appropriate to opt for one or the other route, the application of article 83 of the RGPD

5/6

or the corrective measure of warning of article 58.2.b), the rule itself in its
Recital 148 establishes the following:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

It should be noted that the respondent did not respond to the request for information

formulated by the Inspection Service.

v

At this point, it is necessary to inform that not meeting the requirements
of the Agency may constitute a very serious infringement in accordance with the
indicated in article 72 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes: “1. Depending on what
established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

(…)

ñ) Failure to facilitate access by data protection authority personnel
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority for the
exercise of its investigative powers.

o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the

competent data protection authority.

(…)”

At the same time, notification of the start agreement and after the term granted

to formulate allegations, I do not present any writing.

It is necessary to point out that if the incidence is not corrected by eliminating the
information contained in the social network Facebook or reiterate the conduct
manifest in the claim and that is the cause of this procedure, as well as not
then inform this AEPD of the measures adopted, it could proceed to the
exercise of possible actions before the person in charge of the treatment in order to
effectively apply the appropriate measures to guarantee and not
compromise the confidentiality of personal data and the right to
people's privacy.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE D. A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned
RGPD, with a sanction of WARNING in accordance with the provisions of the
article 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the D.A.A.A. and require him to
inform the AEPD of the measures adopted to prevent it from being able to
occur a new infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, trying to adopt
effectively measures that prevent the disclosure to third parties of personal data.
personal character without the consent or authorization of those affected, violating the
duty of confidentiality.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

