1/8

 File No.: EXP202105953

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant) on 11/17/2021 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF TRAFFIC with NIF Q2816003D (hereinafter,
the claimed party). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:
claimed convened the Social Action Plan for its workers, requesting the
claimant an aid for children, publishing on the intranet of the claimed the
Provisional decision granting aid, stating the name and surnames
of the worker and his daughter, destination and the allocated amount. The claimant believes that the
The aforementioned notification allows access to the identification data of your daughter to the entire
staff with access to the intranet. Likewise, it indicates that the published act does not respect
the principles of protection, limitation and minimization of personal data of children.
Provides the provisional and final resolutions issued by the claimed entity.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), ON 01/05/2022 said claim was transferred to the party
claimed, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform this Agency within the period
of a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
in data protection regulations.

On 01/24/2022, the respondent indicated that a report was requested from the Subdirectorate
HR Associate of the entity; In the report received, they state that they are not aware
that no claim of this type has been raised against them, so that, if the
claimant has not expressed his disagreement with this section during the
processing in relation to section 3.7 of the bases of the call and presented
your application for child support, it is not understood that you are now filing the claim
before that Agency.

It has not been possible to respond to the interested party because his identity is unknown.

In the aforementioned report, it is also communicated that they have consulted with the Management of
Information Technology of the organism and consider that the most viable solution, in the event
raised, would be to replace these data with the registration number of the application and with
This would not publish the name and surnames of the children.
                                                                                 
THIRD: On 02/17/2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 06/16/2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.
The receipt by the claimed party of the initiation agreement is recorded.

FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

SIXTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 11/17/2021 you have entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claimant, stating that the person claimed in the call for
Social Action aid for its workers, requested aid for children,
publishing on the intranet of the defendant the provisional resolution granting
aid, stating the name and surname of the worker and his daughter, destination and
allocated amount; considering that the aforementioned publication allows access to the data
identification of your daughter to all staff with access to the intranet

SECOND: Provisional and definitive resolutions issued by the
claimed with the list of aid granted. They contain the name and
surnames of the claimant's daughter.

THIRD: The respondent in writing dated 01/24/2022 has indicated that “In view of the
exposed facts, a report has been requested from the Deputy Directorate of HR of
this Organization, subjecting it to "assessment if it is necessary to publish the name and
last name of the children, or if it could be enough to publish only the initials. I know
It is unknown if any claim related to this matter has been raised in
the rest of Escritos-Circulares, for example in the one related to family problems, and
we request that you inform us if the full name is strictly necessary
or if it is possible to remove it and publish only the initials ».
(…)
In the aforementioned report, we are also informed that they have consulted with the Management of
Informatics of this Organism and consider that the most viable solution, in the
supposed
raised, would be to replace these data with the registration number of the application and with
This would not publish the name and surnames of the children.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that:

 "The
procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed
by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, insofar as they are not
contradict, in the alternative, by the general rules on the
administrative procedures."

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed
responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
If you do not make allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

The facts denounced specify that the respondent has published in his
intranet the decision granting aid corresponding to the Action Plan
Social, in which the name and surnames appear not only of the employee but also of his
daughter, in addition to the destination and the allocated amount, data that he considers excessive.

III

Article 5, Principles relating to processing, of the GDPR states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes
for which they are processed ("data minimization");
(…)

The documentation in the file offers clear indications that the
claimed violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, by being
published on the intranet of the entity the provisional resolution of action aids
social, including the details of the claimant's daughter.

IV

Article 5 of the RGPD refers to the general principles for the treatment
of data. Section c) refers to the principle of data minimization,
indicating that the data must be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary
in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”.

If we examine the definition we can deduce that only the
personal data to be processed, that is, those that are strictly
necessary for treatment; that can only be picked up when they are going to be
treated and that can only be used for the purpose for which it was collected, but
not for any other purpose.

Also Recital 39 states that: "... Personal data must be
adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are
treaties”

The infraction that is attributed to the claimed one is typified in the
article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, which considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable.

v

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in its article 72, it considers for prescription purposes, which are: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)
a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories

responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

SAW

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the
institutions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the
autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Assemblies
Autonomous Legislative, as well as the political groups of the Corporations
Local.

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the
data protection will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions
when there is sufficient evidence to do so. In this case, the procedure and
sanctions to apply will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary regime
or sanction that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to
the previous sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
referred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that would have committed the
infringement.

When the competence corresponds to a regional authority for the protection of
data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations”.

In this case, the sanctioning procedure brings cause of the presumption
of the fact that the defendant has violated the regulations on the protection of
personal data, principle of data minimization.

According to the available evidence, said conduct
constitutes, on the part of the defendant, the infringement of the provisions of article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR.

It should be noted that the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of article 83,
contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of resorting to the sanction of warning
to correct the processing of personal data that is not in accordance with your
forecasts, when those responsible or in charge listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

Likewise, it is contemplated that the resolution issued may establish
measures to be taken to stop the behavior, correct the effects of the
infraction that had been committed and its adequacy to the requirements contemplated in
article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, as well as the provision of supporting means of the
compliance with what is required.

In this same sense, it contemplates article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2 d)
that each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”.

However, the respondent in his response dated 01/24/2022 has indicated
that “In view of the facts exposed, a report has been requested from the Subdirectorate
HR Deputy of this Organization, subjecting it to "assessment if necessary
publish the first and last name of the children, or if it could be enough to publish only
The initials. It is unknown if they have been raised any claim related to
this matter in the rest of Escritos-Circulares, for example in the one related to
family problem, and we request that you inform us if the full name is
strictly necessary or if it is possible to remove it and publish only the initials ».
(…)
In the aforementioned report, we are also informed that they have consulted with the Management of
Informatics of this Organism and consider that the most viable solution, in the
supposed
raised, would be to replace these data with the registration number of the application and with
they would not be published
children".

  name and surname of

Therefore, it is considered that the respondent's response was reasonable, not
proceeding to urge the adoption of additional measures, by proposing the adoption of
technical and organizational measures in accordance with the regulations in
matter of data protection to avoid the recurrence of situations such as
which gave rise to this claim, which is the main purpose of the
procedures regarding those entities listed in article 77 of the
LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF TRAFFIC, with NIF
Q2816003D, for an infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF
TRAFFIC.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

