 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

REPRIMAND 

 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
Parkside Community Primary School (Parkside) in accordance with Article 
58(2)(b) of the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) in 
respect of certain infringements of the UK GDPR.  
 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Parkside in respect 
of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

  Article 5 (1)(f) which states that personal data shall be processed in 

a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and 
confidentiality’). 

 
There are also infringements of Article 24 (1) (Responsibility of the 
controller) and Article 32 (Security of processing).  
 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
The investigation found that Parkside inappropriately disclosed personal 
data, including special category data, of a sensitive nature in a classroom 
environment. There were four data subjects affected, three of whom were 
children.  
 
The Commissioner considers that in relation to the infringement of Article 
5(1)(f) (and by extension Article 24 (1) and Article 32), that Parkside did 
not have adequate: 

  Policies. The ICO is satisfied that the both of the employees 

concerned acted in contravention of Parkside’s data protection 
policies by failing to report the breach internally. However, 
shortcomings with Parkside’s policies were noted. Specifically, the 
data protection policies did not outline the course of action for 
employees to adopt to ensure security and confidentiality when 
sharing personal data internally by email and also when it was 
appropriate to open emails which contained personal data. This is 
particularly pertinent due to the classroom environment which 
Parkside employees operated in. 
 

 

1 

Also noted was a lack of policy relating to

 (

 

).

 is a case management system 

specifically used for the management and monitoring of 
safeguarding, wellbeing and pastoral issues related to children. The 
personal data being processed by 
 was likely to be sensitive 
and contain special category data, so the ICO would expect a 
controller to have adequate technical and organisational measures 
around the use of 
 

 to prevent a security breach.  

  Procedure and guidance. There was a lack of written guidance for 

 did not have any 

employees in respect of using security and confidentiality 
classifications on emails. Specifically and in relation to this incident, 
it was noted that emails generated by 
security classification or labelling to indicate they contained 
personal data of a sensitive nature (including special category 
data).  
 
Further, there was no written procedure or guidance for employees 
in respect of when it was appropriate during the school day to open 
emails generated by 
 
In addition to this, there was no written procedure or guidance 
available to employees in relation to the safe operation of the 
electronic whiteboards, particularly when screensharing from an 
employee’s electronic device. 

.  

Mitigating factors 
 
In the course of our investigation we have noted that: 
 

  Parkside had overarching data protection policies in place. In 

particular, Data Protection and Security Policy (dated July 2020) 
stipulated that employees should follow the security incident / data 
breach response plan if they know or suspect a personal data 
breach has occurred. The Data Breach Response Plan Parkside 
Community Primary School (undated) directed employees that if 
they become aware of a suspected or actual personal data breach, 
then the incident should be reported to the Headmaster without 
delay.  
 

  Once the incident was discovered by Parkside, the children who 

witnessed the disclosure were reassured that what they read was 
unfortunate and that if they wanted to talk about the content that 
they were able to do with the Deputy Headteacher. It was stressed 
to the children that the content was not to be discussed with their 
peers. There is no evidence that the disclosed 
 content has 
been shared or disseminated. 
 

 

2 

  Parkside referred the incident immediately to the Local Authority 

Designated Officer (LADO) and followed the recommendations made 
by the LADO. 
 

  Chair of Governors agreed with commissioning the Human 

Resources team at Herts for Learning to carry out an investigation 
and it was conducted under the school’s disciplinary policy.  
 

  Formal disciplinary action was taken against one of the employees 
concerned. This employee made a statement of apology for breach 
and for their failure to report the incident. 

 
Remedial steps taken by Parkside 
 
The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial steps 
taken by Parkside in the light of this incident. In particular we have noted 
that: 
 

  The governor responsible for the strategic management of UK GDPR 

reviewed the Parkside’s current practices in line with the Data 
Protection policy and made recommendations to the full governing 
body. 
 

  All staff were issued with a formal notice and guidance about how 

incidents should be reported on the school’s internal
 

. 

  New guidance has been issued to staff around the recording and 
 records in light of the breach.  

accessing of work emails / 
 

  Staff have been instructed that all alerts sent via

 are only to 

be read at specific times of the day and never when children are 
present or in the vicinity of the classroom. 
 

  All staff have been instructed to use “SENSITIVE/HIGHLY 

SENSITIVE” in the subject line of an email informing the recipient of 
the nature of the content before it is opened. Such emails should 
only be read before and after the school day. 
 

  Governors are to be alerted to an incident as soon as it becomes 

known to the headteacher. 
 

  Cases of a complex and sensitive nature can only be accessed on 

 by the Headteacher, Deputy Headteacher and Parental and 

Pastoral Officer and shared with relevant members of staff on a 
need-to-know basis at scheduled meetings.  
 

 

3 

  All staff and governors received UK GDPR refresher training (which 

included the caveat not to check emails during teaching time) as 
per the Herts for Learning training module. Part of the training 
instructed staff to use the internal secure data transfer system 
when sending information of a highly sensitive nature. 
 

  All staff to be issued with the Parkside’s UK GDPR policy and to be 

familiar with its content. A record will be made on personnel files in 
this respect. 
 

  Staff have been signposted on where to access the school’s Data 

Protection Policy as a point of reference should they require it. 
 

  Parkside’s Data Protection Policy has been reviewed and an 

appendix added for review at the first full governing body meeting 
of the new academic year. The updated policy instructs staff how to 
report a breach, what constitutes a breach, who to report it to and 
what happens once this has been do. This is to help staff 
understand the complexities of reporting a breach. 
 

  All staff to sign an electronic document to say they have read and 
understood the school’s Child Protection and Data Protection Policy 
in September 2022 alongside the latest and updated version of 
Keeping Children Safe in Education (Part 1). 

 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to Parkside in relation to the infringements of Article 
5(1)(f), Article 24 (1) and Article 32 of the UK GDPR set out above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that Parkside should take certain steps to 
ensure its compliance with UK GDPR. With particular reference to Article 
5(1)(f), Article 24 (1) and Article 32 of the UK GDPR, the following steps 
are recommended: 
 
1.  Parkside should consider refresher training on the operation of 

electronic whiteboards for all relevant employees. This should be 
underpinned by written guidance for employees to follow and 
Parkside should satisfy itself that security is enshrined in the training 
and guidance. Emphasis should be given to the relevant steps for 
employees to take to avoid a personal data breach when operating 
an electronic whiteboard. 
 

 

4 

2.  At the time of the breach, it was noted that there was no written 
. Whilst it is 

guidance in place for employees for the use of
appreciated that Parkside have now issued some written guidance in 
relation to the operation of 
this is sufficient and adequate to reduce the risk of a recurrence of a 
similar incident. 
 refresher training should also be considered 
for all relevant employees.  

, Parkside should evaluate whether 

 

3.  Consideration should be given to refresher data protection training to 

all members of staff, as it was noted that both members of staff 
involved in this incident failed to report the breach. Emphasis should 
be given on the requirement to report a suspected or actual personal 
data breach. Parkside should satisfy itself that all employees 
understand the consequences of failing to report a breach, 
particularly as it can mean a delay in mitigating action being 
deployed. This is especially important, as mitigating action can lessen 
the effects of a personal data breach and the potential impact on the 
data subject/s.  

 

4.  Parkside should satisfy itself that it has adequate technical and 

organisational measures in place to ensure the security and 
confidentiality of emails sent internally which include personal data, 
particularly when these contain sensitive or special category data. 

 

5.  Parkside’s policies and procedures should have prominent, sufficient 

and adequate practical guidance for employees in order to avoid a 
similar breach occurring again. This also needs to include regular 
reviews, and proactive work to increase staff awareness of these. 

 

6.  Parkside should take steps to test all of the new processes introduced 

as a result of this incident and ensure they are embedded within the 
organisation.  

 
 

 

5 

