
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (General Data Protection Regulation) entered into force on 24 May 2016 and is directly and fully applicable in all Member States of the European Union from 25 May 2018.
Immediately after the entry into force of the General Regulation, the Personal Data Protection Agency began to fulfill its obligations to promote public awareness of risks, rules, safeguards and rights related to the processing of personal data, as well as to raise awareness of controllers from this Regulation. In 2017 alone, the Agency held 146 trainings, conferences and conferences for this purpose, and continues with the same activities this year.
Processing managers and executors had two years to align their operations with the General Regulation. However, a large number of data subjects made efforts to comply with the requirements of the General Regulation just before the implementation of the General Regulation and, consequently, the Personal Data Protection Agency, as the supervisory body for personal data protection in the Republic of Croatia, receives daily extremely increased number of inquiries and requests for opinions in relation to regular business.
Data protection supervisors are the logical interlocutors and the first point of contact for the general public, businesses and public administration bodies on issues related to the Regulation.
However, this does not mean that controllers and processors should expect data protection authorities to give them tailored, individualized legal advice that only a lawyer or data protection officer can give.
The Personal Data Protection Agency has a number of tasks in accordance with Article 57 of the General Regulation, only one of which is to promote the awareness of controllers and processors of their obligations under this Regulation.
Employees of the Personal Data Protection Agency make great efforts to respond in a timely manner to all inquiries and opinions requested by the manager and executor of processing, but due to organizational, technical and personnel constraints, this is unfortunately not always possible and therefore we ask for your understanding. We will respond to all inquiries and requested opinions as soon as possible, and until then we refer you to a number of brochures, leaflets, guidelines and opinions that you can find on our website, which can help you adapt to the new legislative framework.
