Recommendations 1/2022 on the Application for Approval

and on the elements and principles to be found in
Controller Binding Corporate Rules (Art. 47 GDPR)

Adopted on 14 November 2022

Adopted - version for public consultation

1

Table of contents

INTRODUCTION .........................................................................................................................................................................................................................3
Application form........................................................................................................................................................................................................................6
Elements and principles to be found in BCR-C........................................................................................................................................................................17

Adopted - version for public consultation

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70(1)(i) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural
persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter “GDPR”),
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No
154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Articles 12 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATIONS:

INTRODUCTION

1.

2.

3.

The GDPR expressly provides for the use of binding corporate rules (hereinafter “BCR”) by a group of undertakings, or a group of enterprises engaged in a
joint economic activity (hereinafter “Group”) for transfers of personal data in the sense of Article 44 GDPR.
On 6 February 2018, the Article 29 Working Party (hereinafter “WP29”) adopted a table with the elements and principles to be found in BCR in order to reflect
the requirements referring to BCR (hereinafter “WP256 rev.01”). The European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “EDPB”) endorsed WP256 rev.01 on 25
May 2018 . These Recommendations also repeal and replace WP256 rev.01, while in substance building on it.

On 11 April 2018, the Article 29 Working Party (thereinafter “WP29”) adopted Recommendations on the Standard Application for Approval of Controller
Binding Corporate Rules for the Transfer of Personal Data (hereinafter: “WP264”). The European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “EDPB”) endorsed WP256
rev.01 on 25 May 2018. These Recommendations repeal and replace WP264, while in substance building on it.

4.

These recommendations are meant to:

-

Provide a standard form for the application for approval of BCR for controllers (hereinafter “BCR-C”);

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA Member States”.
Adopted - version for public consultation

3

-

Clarify the necessary content of BCR-C as stated in Article 47 GDPR;

- Make a distinction between what must be included in BCR-C and what must be presented to the BCR Lead supervisory authority (hereinafter “BCR

Lead”)2 in the BCR application; and
Provide explanations and comments on the requirements.

-

5.

6.

7.

BCR-C are suitable for framing transfers of personal data from controllers covered by the geographical scope of the GDPR pursuant to Article 3 GDPR3 to other
controllers or to processors (established outside the EEA) within the same Group, whereas BCR for processors (hereinafter “BCR-P”) apply to data received
from a controller that is not a member of the Group, and which are then processed by the concerned Group members as processors and/or sub-processors.
Hence, the obligations set out in BCR-C apply in relation to entities within the same Group acting as controllers and to entities acting as ‘internal’ processors.
As for this very last case, it is worth recalling that, in addition to the BCR-C, a contract or other legal act under Union or Member State law, binding on the
processor with regard to the controller and which comprises all requirements as set out in Article 28(3) GDPR, must be signed by each controller acting as
data exporter with all internal processors4. Indeed, the obligations set forth in BCR-C apply to entities of the Group receiving personal data as (‘internal’)
processors to the extent that this does not lead to a contradiction with the contract or other legal act entered into under Article 28(3) GDPR (i.e., the processors
members of the Group processing on behalf of controllers members of the Group should primarily abide by this contract).

EU data protection legislation applicable to members of the Group must be complied with and cannot be overruled by provisions in the BCR-C, unless the BCR-
C voluntarily provide for a higher level of protection.

Pursuant to Article 46(2)(b) GDPR, BCR are appropriate safeguards for transfers of personal data to third countries. BCR create enforceable rights and set out
commitments in order to create, for the personal data transferred under the BCR, a level of protection essentially equivalent to the one provided by the GDPR.
Therefore, it is not sufficient for the BCR-C to only make reference to provisions of the GDPR, and BCR-C applicants should rather expressly formulate the
requirements within their BCR-C.

2 See WP29 Working Document setting forth a co-operation procedure for the approval of “Binding Corporate Rules” for controllers and processors under the GDPR, WP263
rev.01, adopted on 11 April 2018, endorsed by the EDPB. Available at https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/general-guidance/endorsed-wp29-guidelines_en.
3 Please note that at least one group member in the EEA is required (see Chapter 3, Section 1.4 of these Recommendations).
4 Article 28(3) GDPR requires, among others, for each controller-to-processor relationship a specification, by way of contract or other legal act, of the subject-matter, the
duration, the nature and purposes of the processing, the type of personal data and categories of data subjects and the obligations and rights of the controller. A generic
description included in a BCR-C regarding the categories of data, data subjects etc. would not be sufficient in this regard.
Adopted - version for public consultation

4

8.

9.

BCR are subject to approval5 by the BCR Lead. In this respect, it is worth highlighting the difference between the BCR Lead – which is competent for issuing
the approval of the BCR - and the SA that is competent for a specific transfer carried out by a certain controller under that BCR-C6.

The draft approval decision of the BCR Lead is subject to an opinion by the EDPB7. The approval confirms that the requirements set out in Article 47 GDPR are
met, and therefore, that the commitments included in the BCR will provide for appropriate safeguards in the sense of Article 46 GDPR.

10.

However, the approval does not include an assessment of whether each processing is in line with all requirements of the GDPR and the BCR. For instance,
each data exporter needs to ensure that the requirements set out in Article 6 GDPR (Lawfulness of processing) and Article 28 GDPR (for transfers to processors)
or any additional formalities specified by the national law of a Member State, if any, are met for each transfer. Furthermore, it is, for instance, the responsibility
of each data exporter to assess, for each transfer, on a case-by-case basis, whether there is a need to implement supplementary measures in order to provide
for a level of protection essentially equivalent to the one provided by the GDPR8. Such supplementary measures are in the responsibility of the data exporter,
and as such, are not assessed by supervisory authorities (hereinafter “SAs”) as part of the process of approval of BCR.
The BCR approval only covers transfers of personal data to third countries. However, Groups may design BCR to be used as their global data protection policy.
However, the scope of the approval of the BCR by the BCR Lead is always limited to transfers of personal data from entities under the scope of application of
the GDPR9 to third countries and their onward transfers to other Group members that are bound by the BCR (hereinafter “BCR member(s)”) outside the EEA.
12. Once approved, BCR can be used for transfers from all relevant Member States, and the SA competent for the data exporter will also be competent to assess

11.

the respect of the BCR by the data importer in the third country in relation to the relevant transfers.

13.

The EDPB expects all BCR-C holders to bring their BCR-C in line with the requirements set out below. This includes BCR-C that have been approved before the
publication of these Recommendations. Such changes will have to be done in compliance with the commitments taken in their BCR-C in accordance with
Section 5.1 below.

5 In accordance with Article 47(1) GDPR.
6 Throughout these Recommendations, the term “Competent SA(s)” refers to the data protection SA(s) competent for the data exporter(s) of the specific transfer.
7 In accordance with Article 46(4), Article 64(1)(f) and Article 64(3) GDPR.
8 See Chapter 3 of these Recommendations, Section 5.4.1, and EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with the
EU  level  of  protection  of  personal  data,  available  at https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/recommendations-012020-measures-
supplement-transfer_en.
9 Please note that at least one group member in the EEA is required (see Chapter 3, Section 1.4 of these Recommendations).
Adopted - version for public consultation

5

APPLICATION FORM

General Instructions for Applicants:


Only a single copy of the form need be filled out and submitted to the Supervisory Authority (‘SA’) you consider to be the BCR Lead in accordance with
Articles 47(1) and 64 GDPR and the WP263; this form may be used in all EEA Member States.
In case of application for both BCR-C and BCR-P, separate forms need to be filled out for each BCR.
Please fill out all entries of Part I of the application form and submit the form to the SA you consider to be the BCR-C Lead. As soon as a decision on the
BCR Lead has been made (see WP263), the BCR Lead will determine when it will invite you to fill out and submit Part II of the application form including
its Annexes.
You may attach additional pages or annexes if there is insufficient space to complete your responses.
You may indicate any responses or materials that is in your opinion commercially sensitive and should be kept confidential but, in any case, be aware
that the relevant document will be shared among the concerned SAs and the EDPB which, under Article 64 GDPR, has to issue its opinion on the approval
draft decision of your BCR-C. Requests by third parties for disclosure of such information, will, however, be handled by each SA involved in accordance
with national legislation.
The next steps of the procedure are described in WP263.









Instructions for Filling In Part 1 (applicant information):

Section 1: Structure and Contact Details of the Applicant and of the Group
If the Group has its headquarters in the EEA the form should be filled out and submitted by that EEA entity.
If the Group has its headquarters outside the EEA, then the Group should appoint a Group entity located inside the EEA - as the Group member with
“delegated data protection responsibilities”. This is the entity which should then submit the application on behalf of the Group.
Contact details for queries:






o Please indicate a contact to whom queries may be addressed concerning the application.

o This contact does not need to be located in the EEA, although this might be advisable for practical reasons.

o You may indicate a function rather than a specific person.

Adopted - version for public consultation

6

Section 2: Short description of data flows



The applicant should also give a brief description of the scope and nature of the data flows to third countries for which approval is sought.

Section 3: Determination of the BCR Lead



In accordance with Article 64 GDPR, the BCR Lead is the authority in charge of coordinating the approval of your BCR-C, which then could be considered
appropriate safeguards for transfers of personal data by Group members to third countries, without requiring any specific authorisation for the use
of the BCR-C from the other SAs concerned.

o Before you approach one SA as the presumptive BCR Lead, you should examine the factors listed in Section 1 of WP263. Based on these factors
you should explain in Part 1.3 of the Application Form which SA should be the BCR Lead. The SAs are not obligated to accept the choice that
you make if they believe that another SA is more suitable to be BCR Lead, in particular if it would be worth for speeding up the procedure (e.g.
taking into account the workload of the originally requested SA).

Adopted - version for public consultation

7

Application Form for Approval of Controller Binding Corporate Rules (“BCR-C”)

PART 1: APPLICANT INFORMATION

1. STRUCTURE AND CONTACT DETAILS OF THE GROUP OF UNDERTAKINGS OR GROUP OF ENTERPRISES ENGAGED IN A JOINT ECONOMIC

ACTIVITY (THE GROUP)

Name of the Group and location of its headquarters:

Does the Group have its headquarters in the EEA?

Yes
No

Name and location of the applicant:

Identification number (if any):
Legal nature of the applicant (corporation, partnership, etc.):

Description of position of the applicant within the Group:
(e.g. headquarters of the Group in the EEA, or, if the Group does not have its headquarters in the EEA, the member of the Group inside the EEA with delegated data
protection responsibilities)

Name and/or function of contact person (note: the contact person may change, you may indicate a function rather than the name of a specific person):

Address:

Country:
Phone number:

EEA Member States from which the BCR-C will be used:

Adopted - version for public consultation

E-Mail:

8

Please, indicate the following:
-

Nature of the data covered by the BCR-C, and in particular, if they apply to one category of data or to more than one category, the type of processing and its
purposes, the types of data subjects affected (for instance, data related to employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties as part of their respective regular
business activities,…)

2. SHORT DESCRIPTION OF PROCESSING AND DATA FLOWS10

-

-

-

Do the BCR-C only apply to transfers from the EEA, or do they apply to all transfers between members of the group?

Please specify from which country most of the data are transferred outside the EEA:

Extent of the transfers within the Group that are covered by the BCR-C; including a description and the contact details of any Group members in the EEA or outside
the EEA to which personal data may be transferred

3. DETERMINATION OF THE LEAD SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY (‘BCR LEAD’)11

Please explain which should be the BCR Lead, based on the following criteria:
-

Location of the Group’s EEA Headquarters

-

If the Group is not headquartered in the EEA, the location in the EEA of the Group entity with delegated data protection responsibilities

10 See Article 47(2)( a) and (b) GDPR.
11 See Part 1, WP 263.
Adopted - version for public consultation

9

-

-

-

The location of the company which is best placed (in terms of management function, administrative burden, etc.) to deal with the application and to enforce the BCR-
C in the Group

The country where most of the decisions in terms of the purposes and the means of the data processing are taken

EEA Member States from which most of the transfers outside the EEA will take place

We acknowledge on behalf of each member of the Group that

4. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

-the approval does not include an assessment of whether each processing is in line with all requirements of the GDPR and the BCR as applicable, and that each BCR member
needs to ensure that all requirements set out in GDPR and BCR, as applicable, are met for each transfer (e.g., in relation to lawfulness, Article 28 requirements, DPIA where
needed, etc.)

-before carrying out any transfer of personal data on the basis of the approved BCR-C to one of the members of the Group, it is the responsibility of any data exporter, if
needed with the help of the data importer, to assess whether the legislation of the third country of destination does not prevent the recipient from complying with the BCR-C,
including with regard to onward transfer situations. This assessment has to be conducted in order to determine whether any legislation or practices of the third country,
applicable to the to-be-transferred data go beyond what is necessary in a democratic society to safeguard important public interest objectives, in particular criminal law
enforcement and national security and may impinge on the data importer’s and/or the data exporter’s ability to comply with their commitments taken in the BCR-C, taking
into account the circumstances surrounding the transfer. In case of such possible impingement, the data exporter in an EEA Member State, if needed with the help of the data
importer, should assess whether it can provide supplementary measures in order to exclude such impingement and therefore to nevertheless ensure, for the envisaged transfer
at hand, an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU. Deploying such supplementary measures is the responsibility of the data exporter and remains its
responsibility even after approval of the BCR-C, and as such, they are not assessed by the Supervisory Authorities as part of the approval process of the BCR-C;

-in any case, where the data exporter is not able to implement supplementary measures necessary to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU,
personal data cannot be lawfully transferred to a third country under the BCR-C. In the same vein, where the data exporter is made aware of any changes in the relevant third
country legislation that undermine the level of data protection required by EU law, the data exporter is required to suspend or end the transfer of personal data at stake to the
concerned third countries.

Adopted - version for public consultation

10

Date, Signature of the applicant (Board level)

PART 2: BACKGROUND PAPER

5. BINDING NATURE OF THE BCR-C

Binding within the entities of the Group

How are the BCR-C made binding upon the members of the Group?

Intra Group Agreement
Unilateral Declaration (hereinafter: UD) if the requirements set out in Section 1.2 of the “Elements and principles” part (= Chapter 3) of these EDPB Recommendations
are met
Other means (only if the Group demonstrates how the binding character of the BCR-C is achieved), please specify

Please attach the draft Intra Group Agreement / UD / “other means”. Please note that these documents will have to be signed at Board level after the BCR-C approval has been
obtained.

Please explain the legal basis enabling the member(s) of the Group with delegated data protection responsibility to enforce the BCR-C obligations of other members of the
Group (e.g. rights of a parent company residing in corporate law):

Does the internally binding effect of your BCR-C extend to the whole Group? (If some Group members should be exempted, specify how and why)

Adopted - version for public consultation

11

Your Group may take some or all of the following steps to ensure that the BCR-C are binding on employees, but there may be other steps. Please, give details below.

Binding upon the employees

Individual and separate agreement(s) / undertaking with sanctions;

Clause in employment contract with a description of applicable sanctions;

Collective agreements with sanctions;

Internal policies with sanctions (but the Group must properly explain how the BCR-C are made binding on employees);

Other means (but the Group must properly explain how the BCR-C are made binding on employees)

Please provide a summary, supported by extracts as appropriate, to explain how the BCR-C are binding upon employees.

Adopted - version for public consultation

12

Please confirm that the liable BCR-C member(s) established on the territory of an EEA Member State (e.g. the European headquarters of the Group, or the member of the
Group with delegated data protection responsibilities in the EEA) has made appropriate arrangements to enable itself payment of compensation for any damages resulting from
the breach of the BCR-C by BCR members outside the EEA, and explain how this is ensured.

Assets

Adopted - version for public consultation

13

6. EFFECTIVENESS

It is important to show how the BCRs in place within your organization are brought to life in practise, in particular in non EEA countries where data will be transferred on the
basis of the BCRs, as this will be significant in assessing the adequacy of the safeguards. Please provide information on the elements below.

Training and awareness raising (employees)

- Special training programs

- Employees are tested on BCRs and data protection

- BCRs are communicated to all employees on paper or online

- Review and approval by senior officers of the company

- How are employees trained to identify the data protection implications of their work, i.e. to identify that the relevant privacy policies are applicable to their activities and to
react accordingly? (This applies whether these employees are or not based in the EEA)

Network of data protection officers (DPO) or appropriate staff

Please confirm that a network of DPOs or appropriate staff (such as a network of privacy officers) is appointed with top management support to oversee and ensure
compliance with the BCR for Processors:

Adopted - version for public consultation

14

Please explain how your network of DPOs or privacy officers functions:

- Internal structure:

- Role and responsibilities:

Date, Signature of the applicant (Board level)
(please also indicate name, position, and contact details)

Adopted - version for public consultation

15

ANNEX 1:

COPY OF THE BCR-C

Please attach a copy of your BCR-C to your application. Please note that all mandatory content needs to be included in the BCR documents (in the core document(s) or its
annexes), while “supporting documents” (i.e. documents that are not part of the BCR) may only be submitted for reasons of further explanation12.

COPY OF THE FILLED-OUT TABLE “ELEMENTS AND PRINCIPLES

TO BE FOUND IN BCR-C”

ANNEX 2:

Please fill out the table “Elements and Principles to be found in BCR-C” and attach it to your application.

12 Please note that any documents that are submitted may be subject to access requests based on freedom of information legislation, as applicable.
Adopted - version for public consultation

16

ELEMENTS AND PRINCIPLES TO BE FOUND IN BCR-C

Criteria for BCR-C approval

In

BCR-C

In

application

form

Reference

Comments

References to BCR-C,

application form BCR-C, and /
or supporting documents13

1 - BINDING NATURE
Internally
1.1 Duty to respect the BCR-C

1.2  Explanation  of  how  the
BCR-C  are  internally15 made
binding  on  the  BCR members,
and on their employees

YES

NO

NO

YES

Article  47(1)(a)
and
(2)(c)
GDPR14
Article 47(1)(a)
and (2)(c) GDPR

The  BCR-C must  be  legally  binding  and should
contain a clear duty for each BCR member, including
their employees, to respect the BCR-C.
The Group will have to explain in its application form
how the BCR-C are made binding:
i.

For each BCR member, by one or more of the
following:
a) Intra-group agreement;
b) Unilateral Declaration (hereinafter “UD”), if

the following requirements are met:

13 To be completed by the applicant by inserting references to the paragraphs/sections/parts of the BCR documents and, if necessary, any supporting documents, that address
the respective requirement. Please note that all mandatory content needs to be included in the BCR documents (in the core document(s) or its annexes), while “supporting
documents” (i.e. documents that are not part of the BCR) may only be submitted for reasons of further explanation. Furthermore, it is not necessary to “copy & paste” text
from the BCR documents, but it suffices mentioning the relevant sections of the documents as such. Examples: “Section 4.1 of the BCR document and paragraph 2.1 of Annex
I (intra-group agreement); Part 2, Section 4 of the Application”, “Section 2.1 of the BCR document and paragraph 3 of Annex 2 (Audit concept)”.
14 References in this paper to GDPR provisions do not imply that GDPR applies directly to the BCR members acting as data importers, but should rather be understood as the
threshold for commitments that need to be made in a BCR. If the BCR make reference to GDPR provisions, possible wording to indicate this might e.g. be “in line with Article
X of the GDPR”, “… as those provided for by Article X of the GDPR”.
15 Please note than beside having internal binding nature (i.e. binding effect on the BCR members and their employees) the BCR-C must also have an external binding effect
in the sense of providing legal enforceability (of certain parts of the BCR-C) for the data subjects by creating third-party beneficiary rights. See Section 1.3 below as regards
this external binding effect.
Adopted - version for public consultation

17

-

-

-

-

-

in  a 

located 

The entity/entities taking  responsibility
and  liability (see  Section  1.4  below)
is/are 
in a  Member  State
recognising UDs as binding;
The  entity/entities  taking  responsibility
and  liability (see  Section  1.4 below)
is/are legally able to bind the other BCR
members, and this is expressly provided
for,  e.g. 
separate  written
commitment from that entity;
The BCR-C state the principle that all the
entities identified in the UD are bound by
the BCR-C;
The law applicable to the UD is the law of
the country of the entity/entities taking
responsibility and  liability (see  Section
1.4  below).  The  applicable 
law is
expressly stated in the UD; and
It is the Group’s responsibility to verify
that any additional requirements of the
applicable  law  for  bindingness  are  met
(such as publication of the UD, …).

if 

c) Other  means 

(only 

the  Group
demonstrates how the binding character of
the  BCR-C is  achieved).  The  BCR  Lead  can
require corresponding documentation that
demonstrates the binding character.16

16 The most straightforward instrument in this regard is a contractual arrangement (i.e., an intra-group agreement), since contractual arrangements can be legally enforced
by third parties as beneficiaries under private law in all Member States.
Adopted - version for public consultation

18

ii. On employees by one or more of:

a) Individual  and  separate  agreement(s) /

undertaking with sanctions;

b) Clause 

in  employment  contract  with  a

description of applicable sanctions;

c) Collective agreements with sanctions;
d) Internal policies with sanctions; or
e) Other means.

Regarding d)  and  e)  above, the  Group should
properly demonstrate how those means make the
BCR-C binding on the employees.
The  BCR 
corresponding
documentation  that  demonstrates  the  binding
character.

request

Lead 

can

Externally
1.3.1 Creation  of  third-party
beneficiary 
that  are
enforceable by data subjects

rights 

YES

NO

Article  47(1)(b),
(2)(c)  and 
(e)
GDPR

The  BCR-C must expressly confer  rights  to  data
subjects  to  enforce  the BCR-C as  third-party
beneficiaries,  at  least  as  regards  the  following
elements of the BCR-C:
- Data  protection  principles, 

lawfulness  of
processing, security  and  personal  data  breach
notifications, restrictions  on  onward  transfers
(see  Article  47(2)(d)  GDPR,  and Sections 5.1.1,
5.1.2, 5.1.3 second paragraph 3rd indent [“duty
to notify without undue delay to data subjects
where the personal data breach is likely to result

Adopted - version for public consultation

19

in a high risk to their rights and freedoms”], and
5.1.4 below);

- Transparency and easy access to the BCR-C (see
Article 47(2)(g) GDPR, and Sections 1.7 and 5.1.1
below);

restriction, notification 

- Rights  of  information,  access,  rectification,
regarding
erasure, 
rectification or erasure or restriction, objection
to  processing,  right  not  to  be  subject  to
based 
decisions 
automated
processing, 
including  profiling (see  Article
47(2)(e), Articles 15 to 19, 21 and 22 GDPR, and
Section 5.2 below);

solely 

on 

- Obligations in case of local laws and practices
affecting compliance with the BCR-C and in case
of  government  access  requests
(see  Article
47(2)(m)  GDPR,  and  Section 5.4.1  and  5.4.2
below);

- Right to complain through the Group’s internal
complaint process (see  Article  47(1)(i)  GDPR,
and Section 3.2 below);

relating 

- Cooperation  duties  with Competent  SAs (see
Article 47(2)(j), (k), and (l) GDPR, and Section 4.1
below)
to  compliance  obligations
covered by this third party beneficiary clause;
Jurisdiction and liability provisions (see Article
47(2)(e) and (f) GDPR, and Sections 1.3.2 and 1.4
below);

-

Adopted - version for public consultation

20

- Duty  to  inform  the  data  subjects  about  any
update  of  the  BCR-C and  of  the  list  of BCR
members (see Section 8.1 below);

- Third-party beneficiary clause itself (see present

Section 1.3.1);

- Right 

to 

judicial 

remedies,

redress  and

compensation (see Section 1.3.2 below)

1.3.2 Right to judicial remedies,
redress  and  compensation for
data subjects

YES

NO

Article
47(2)(e)
and Articles 77 to
82 GDPR

to 

pertaining 

These rights do not extend to those elements of the
BCR-C
internal  mechanisms
implemented  within  entities, such  as  details of
training,  audit  programme,  compliance  network,
and mechanism for updating the BCR-C.
The  Group needs  to  make  sure  that  third-party
beneficiary  rights  are  effectively  created to  make
those commitments binding (see Section 1.2 below).
The BCR-C shall expressly confer on data subjects the
right  to  judicial  remedies  and  the  right  to  obtain
redress  and,  where  appropriate,  compensation  in
case  of  any  breach  of  one  of  the  enforceable
elements  of the  BCR-C as  enumerated  in  Section
1.3.1  above.  The  BCR members  accept  that  data
subjects  may  be  represented  by  a  not-for-profit
body,  organisation  or  association  under 
the
conditions set out in Article 80(1) GDPR (see Articles
77 – 82 GDPR).
The BCR members should make sure that all those
rights  are  covered  by  the  third-party  beneficiary
clause  of  the  BCR-C,  for  example, by making
reference to the clauses, sections, and/or parts of

Adopted - version for public consultation

21

YES

NO

Article 
GDPR

47(2)(f)

the BCR-C where those rights are regulated, or by
listing  them  in  the  said  third-party  beneficiary
clause.
The BCR-C must confer on data subjects the right to
lodge a complaint (by including a direct reference to
such right in the relevant BCR-C documents that are
binding and published):

- with a SA, in particular in the Member State of
the  data  subject’s  habitual  residence,  place  of
work or place of the alleged infringement; and

- before  the  competent  court  of  the  Member
States where the controller or processor has an
establishment,  or  where  the  data  subject  has
their habitual residence.

The  BCR-C must  contain  a  duty  that,  at  any  given
time,  one  BCR member 
in  the  EEA  accepts
responsibility for and agrees to take the necessary
actions to remedy the acts of other BCR members
outside of the EEA, and to pay compensation for any
material or non-material damages resulting from the
violation  of  the  BCR-C  by  such  BCR members
(“centralised responsibility and liability regime”).
SAs  may  also,  on  a  case-by-case  basis,  accept
solutions where several BCR members established in
the  EEA  have  such  responsibility  and  liability,  and
where  sufficient  and  adequate assurances are
provided  by  the  applicant.  Where  an  alternative
mechanism to  the  centralised  responsibility  and
liability  regime is  used, the  applicant  should show
that  data  subjects  will  be  transparently  informed,

1.4  One  or  more  BCR
in  the  EEA with
member(s)
delegated
data  protection
responsibility accept 
liability
for  paying  compensation to
data  subjects and  remedying
BCR-C
breaches 
(hereinafter 
BCR
Member(s)”)

the 
“Liable

of 

Adopted - version for public consultation

22

their 

in  exercising 

rights  and  not
assisted 
disadvantaged or unduly inhibited in any way by the
use of such alternative mechanism.
The BCR-C should also state that, if a BCR member
outside  the  EEA  violates  the  BCR-C,  the  courts  or
other  judicial  authorities  in  the  EEA  will  have
jurisdiction,  and  data  subjects  will  have  the  rights
and remedies against the Liable BCR member as if
the violation had been caused by the latter in the
Member State in which it is based, instead of the BCR
member outside the EEA.
The application form should contain a confirmation
that the Liable BCR member(s) has sufficient assets,
or  has  made  appropriate  arrangements  to  enable
itself  to  pay  compensation  for  damages  resulting
from a breach of the BCR-C.
Such  confirmation should be  renewed  at  the
occasion  of  every  annual  update  (see  Section 8.1
below).
The BCR-C must contain the commitment that where
data  subjects  can  demonstrate  that  they  have
suffered damage and establish facts which show it is
likely that the damage has occurred because of the
breach  of  the  BCR-C,  it  will  be  for  the Liable BCR
member to prove that the BCR member outside of
the EEA was not responsible for the breach of the
BCR-C giving rise to those damages, or that no such
breach took place.
The  BCR-C  must  contain  the  commitment  that  all
data subjects should be provided with information

1.5 The Liable BCR  member(s)
has sufficient assets

NO

YES

Article 
GDPR

70(1)(i)

1.6  The  burden  of  proof  lies
with the Liable BCR member(s)

YES

NO

Article 
GDPR

47(2)(f)

1.7 Easy access to the BCR-C for
data subjects

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(g)
GDPR

Adopted - version for public consultation

23

contain 

the  BCR-C  must 

on their third-party beneficiary rights, with regard to
the  processing  of  their  personal  data,  and  on  the
means to exercise those rights.
the
Furthermore, 
commitment that data subjects will be provided at
least with the description of the scope of the BCR-C
(see  Section 2 below),  the  clause  relating  to  the
Group’s liability (see Section 1.4 above), the clauses
relating  to  the  data  protection  principles (see
Section  5.1.1  below),  to  the  lawfulness  of  the
processing (see Section 5.1.2 below), to security and
personal data breach notifications (see Section 5.1.3
below),  to restrictions  on  onward  transfers (see
Section 5.1.4 below), and the clauses relating to the
rights of the data subjects (see Section 5.2 below).
This 
information  should  be  up-to-date,  and
presented to data subjects in a clear, intelligible, and
transparent  way.  This 
information  should  be
provided in full, hence a summary hereof will not be
sufficient.
Moreover,  the  BCR-C  must  illustrate  the  way in
which  such 
information  will  be  provided.  For
instance, the BCR-C may state that at least the parts
of the BCR-C on which information to data subjects
is  mandatory 
in  the  previous
paragraphs) will be published on the internet or on
the intranet (when data subjects are only the Group
staff having access to the intranet).
In case the Group plans to not publish the BCR-C as
a whole, but only certain parts or a specific version
aimed at informing data subjects, the Group should

(as  described 

Adopted - version for public consultation

24

expressly  provide  in  the  BCR-C  the  list  of  the
elements that it will include in that public version.
In  such  situation,  the  description  of  the  material
scope of the BCR-C17 should always be part of the
information on the BCR-C that is publicly available.
The list of definitions (see Section 9.1 below) and, if
applicable,  of  abbreviations  which  are  used  in  the
BCR-C, should in any case be included in the parts of
the  BCR-C  which  are  published.  The  BCR-C should
contain an express commitment in this regard.
The BCR-C must use clear and plain language so that
employees  and  any  other  person  in  charge  with
applying  the  BCR-C  can  sufficiently  understand
them. The same applies to any parts/version of the
BCR-C  that will  be  published with the  aim  of
providing access to the BCR-C for data subjects.

In order to be transparent as to the scope of the BCR-
C, the BCR-C must specify their material scope, and
therefore contain a description of the transfers.
The BCR-C must, in particular, specify per transfer or
set of transfers18 (for example, by means of a table):

-

the categories of personal data;

2 - SCOPE OF THE BCR
2.1 Description of the material
scope of the BCR-C

YES

YES

Article  47(2)(b)
GDPR

17 See Section 2.1 below.
18 The information on the transfers must be exhaustive in that every transfer or set of transfers must be described. This does not mean that the information must be provided
with a high degree of specificity or granularity. Where the description provided by the applicant is too broad, general or vague, the applicant should be able to explain why it
is not in a position to provide more detailed information. If and to the extent that any of the elements provided in the transfers’ description changes in the future, the process
for BCR-C updates applies, i.e., information on the amendments to the BCR-C must be provided in the annual BCR-C update notified to the BCR Lead (see Section 8.1 below).
Adopted - version for public consultation

25

2.2  List  of  BCR  members,  and
description of the geographical
scope of the BCR-C

YES

YES

Article  47(2)(a)
GDPR

-

-

-

the type of processing and their purposes;

the  categories  of  data  subjects  (e.g.  data
related to employees, customers, suppliers
and other third parties as part of the Group’s
respective regular business activities); and

the third country or countries.

As to the data subjects covered, BCR-C will apply to
all  data  subjects  whose  personal  data  are
transferred within the scope of the BCR-C from an
entity under the scope of application of Chapter V
GDPR.  Therefore,  the  scope  of  the  BCR-C  may,  in
particular,  not  be  limited  to  “EEA  citizens  or  EEA
residents”.
The  BCR-C  shall  specify  the  structure  and  contact
details of the Group and of each of its BCR members
(contact  details  of  the  BCR  members – such  as
address  and  company  registration  number,  where
available – should  be  inserted  in  the  list  of  BCR
members that is part of the BCR-C, for example an
annex thereof, that has to be published along with
the BCR-C).
The BCR-C should indicate that they at least apply to
all  personal  data  transferred  to  BCR  members
outside the EEA, and onward transfers to other BCR
members outside the EEA.

3 - EFFECTIVENESS
3.1
Suitable 
programme

training

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(n)
GDPR

The  BCR-C must  state  that  appropriate  and  up-to-
date training on the BCR-C is provided to personnel

Adopted - version for public consultation

26

3.2 Complaint handling process
for the BCR-C

YES

NO

Article 
47(2)(i)
and Article 12(3)
GDPR

that have permanent or regular access to personal
data, who are involved in the collection of data or in
the development of tools used to process personal
data.
The training programme, including its materials, has
to be developed to a sufficiently elaborate degree
before the BCR-C are approved.
Training intervals should be specified in the BCR-C.
Training should cover, among others, procedures of
managing  requests  for  access  to  personal  data  by
public authorities.
The SAs evaluating the BCR-C may ask for examples
and explanations of the training programme during
the application procedure.
An internal complaint handling process must be set
up  in  the  BCR-C  to  ensure  that  any  data  subject
should be able to exercise their rights and complain
about any BCR member.
The BCR-C (or, depending on the case, the parts of
the BCR-C that will be published for the attention of
data subjects, see Section 1.7 above) will include the
point(s)  of  contact  where  data  subjects  can  lodge
any  complaints  related  to  the  processing  of  their
personal data covered by the BCR-C. A single point
of  contact  or  a  number  of  points  of  contact  are
possible. In this regard, a physical address should be
provided. Additionally, further contact options may
be provided, e.g. a generic e-mail address and/or a
phone number.

Adopted - version for public consultation

27

While  data  subjects  are  encouraged  to  use  the
point(s) of contact indicated, this is not mandatory.
The BCR-C must contain the duty for the controller
to  provide  information  on  actions  taken  to  the
complainant without undue delay, and in any event
within one month, by a clearly identified department
or person with an appropriate level of independence
in the exercise of their functions. Taking into account
the  complexity  and  number  of  the  requests,  that
one-month period may be extended at maximum by
two further months, in which case the complainant
should be informed accordingly.
The BCR-C (or, depending on the case, the parts of
the BCR-C that will be published for the attention of
data subjects, see Section 1.7 above) should include
information  about  the  practical  steps  of  the
complaint process, in particular:
- Where  to  complain  (point(s)  of  contact;  see

above);

-

In what form;

- Consequences of delays  for  the  reply  to  the

complaint;

- Consequences 

complaint;

in  case  of  rejection  of  the

- Consequences 

in  case 
considered as justified; and

the  complaint 

is

- Consequences if the data subject is not satisfied
by the reply, i.e., right to lodge a claim before the

Adopted - version for public consultation

28

3.3 Audit programme covering
the BCR-C

YES

NO

(l), 

47(2)(j)
and
38(3)

Article 
and 
Article 
GDPR

competent  court  and  a  complaint  before a SA
(see  Section  1.3.2  above),  while  clarifying  that
such right is not dependent on the data subject
having  used  the  complaint  handling  process
beforehand.

The BCR-C must create a duty for the Group to have
data protection audits on a regular basis (by either
internal and/or external accredited auditors) and if
there  are  indications of  non-compliance  to  ensure
verification of compliance with the BCR-C.
The audit frequency envisaged should be specified in
the BCR-C. The frequency needs to be determined
on the basis of the risk(s) posed by the processing
activities  covered  by  the  BCR-C  to  the  rights  and
freedoms of data subjects.
In addition to the regular audits, specific audits (ad
hoc audits) may be requested by the Privacy officer
or  Function (see  Section 3.4  below), or  any  other
competent function in the organisation.
If audits will be carried out by external auditors, the
BCR-C should specify  the  conditions  under  which
such auditors may be entrusted.
The  BCR-C should state  which  entity  (department
within 
the  audit
plan/programme, and which entity will conduct the
audit. Data  protection  officers should  not  be  the
ones in charge of auditing compliance with the BCR-
C, if such situation can result in a conflict of interests.
Functions  that  may  possibly  be  entrusted  with
deciding on the audit plan/programme and/or with

the Group)  decides  on 

Adopted - version for public consultation

29

instance,  Audit
conducting  audits 
Departments, but other appropriate solutions may
be acceptable too provided that:

include,  for 

-

-

in 

charge  are  guaranteed
the  persons 
independence  as  to  the  performance  of  their
duties related to these audits; and

the BCR-C include an explicit commitment in this
regard.

The BCR-C should state that the audit programme
covers  all  aspects  of  the  BCR-C (for  instance,
applications,  IT  systems,  databases  that  process
personal data, or onward transfers, decisions taken
as regards mandatory requirements under national
laws  that  conflict  with  the  BCR-C,  review  of  the
contractual terms used for the transfers out of the
Group  to  controllers  or  processors  of  data,
corrective  actions,  etc.),  including  methods  and
action  plans  ensuring  that  corrective  actions  have
been implemented.
It is not mandatory to monitor all aspects of the BCR-
C each time a BCR member is audited, as long as all
aspects of the BCR-C are monitored at appropriate
regular intervals for that BCR member.
Moreover, the BCR-C should state that the results
will be communicated:

-

-

to the Privacy officer or Function (see Section 3.4
below);
to the board of the Liable BCR member; and

Adopted - version for public consultation

30

3.4 Creation  of  a  network  of
data protection officers (DPOs)
or 
for
monitoring  compliance  with
the BCR-C

appropriate 

staff 

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(h)
and Article 38(3)
GDPR

- where appropriate, also to the Group’s ultimate

parent's board.

The BCR-C must state that Competent SAs can have
access to the results of the audit upon request.
Since SAs are  already  bound  by  an  obligation  of
confidentiality in the course of exercising their public
office (see in particular Article 54(2) GDPR), the BCR-
C should not  contain  wording  aimed  at  restricting
the  duty of  all  BCR members  to communicate  the
results  of  the  audit(s)  to  the SAs on  grounds  of
confidentiality,  e.g.  related  to  the  protection  of
business secrets.
The BCR-C must contain a commitment to designate
a DPO, where required in line with Article 37 GDPR,
or any other person or entity (such as a chief privacy
officer)  with  responsibility  to  monitor  compliance
with the BCR-C, enjoying the highest management
support for the fulfilling of this task.
The DPO or the other privacy professionals can be
assisted by a team, a network of local DPOs or local
contacts,  as  appropriate (hereinafter  “Privacy
officer or Function”).
The  DPO  shall  directly  report  to  the  highest
management level. In addition, the DPO can inform
the  highest  management  level  if  any  questions  or
problems  arise  during  the  performance  of  their
duties.
The BCR-C should include a brief description of the
internal  structure,  role,  position  and  tasks  of  the
DPO or similar function and the network created to

Adopted - version for public consultation

31

SAs’ 

ensure  compliance  with  the BCR-C.  For  example,
that  the  DPO  or  chief  privacy  officer  informs  and
advises  the  highest  management,  deals  with
Competent
investigations,  monitors  and
annually reports on compliance at a global level, and
that local DPOs or local contacts can be in charge of
local  complaints  from  data  subjects,
handling 
reporting  major  privacy 
issues  to  the  DPO,
monitoring training and compliance at a local level.
The DPO should not have any tasks that could result
in  conflict  of interests.  The  DPO  should  not  be  in
charge  of  carrying  out  data  protection  impact
assessments,  neither  should  they  be  in  charge  of
carrying out the BCR-C audits if such situations can
result in a conflict of interests. However, the DPO
can play a very important and useful role in assisting
the BCR members, and the advice of the DPO should
be sought for such tasks.
The  BCR-C should  specify  that the DPO  or  other
privacy professionals may be directly contacted. The
BCR-C should include a commitment to publish their
contact details.

4 - COOPERATION DUTY
4.1 Duty  to  cooperate  with
Competent SAs

YES

NO

Article
47(2)(l)
GDPR and Article
31 GDPR

The  BCR-C should  contain  a  clear  duty  for  all  BCR
members:
to cooperate with, to accept to be audited and to be
inspected, including where necessary, on-site, by the
competent SAs,

-

to take into account their advice, and

Adopted - version for public consultation

32

-

to abide by decisions of these SAs

on any issue related to the BCR-C.
The BCR-C shall include the obligation to provide the
Competent SAs, upon request, with any information
about the processing  operations  covered  by  the
BCR-C.
Since SAs are  already  bound  by  an  obligation  of
confidentiality in the course of exercising their public
office (see in particular Article 54(2) GDPR), the BCR-
C may not contain wording aimed at restricting the
duty  of  all  BCR  members  to  cooperate  with  the
Competent SAs, to take into account their advice, to
abide by their decisions or to accept to be audited
and  to  be  inspected  by  them  including,  where
necessary, on-site, or to accept audits by them on
grounds  of  confidentiality,  e.g.  related  to  the
protection of business secrets.
The BCR-C can neither limit the duty to cooperate
with Competent SAs  nor  limit  their  powers,  in
particular  in  relation  to the  practical  modalities of
the audits conducted by these SAs (e.g., not limited
to business hours).
The BCR-C need to include a commitment that any
dispute  related  to  the Competent SAs’ exercise of
supervision  of  compliance  with  the  BCR-C will be
resolved by the courts of the Member State of that
SA, 
in  accordance  with  that  Member  State’s
procedural law. The BCR members agree to submit
themselves to the jurisdiction of these courts.

Adopted - version for public consultation

33

5 - DATA PROTECTION SAFEGUARDS
YES
5.1.1  Description  of  the  data
protection principles

NO

Article  47(2)(d)
GDPR and Article
5 GDPR

The BCR-C should explicitly include and describe the
following  principles  to  be  observed  by  the  BCR
members.
The  BCR-C  need  to  establish  those  principles  in  a
sufficiently  elaborated manner  that  is  in  line  with
the content of the principles as provided for in the
GDPR provisions.
The BCR-C should not include general limitations to
the application of these principles (e.g., pre-defined
lists of overriding interests), which limitations can
only be applied on a case-by case basis, and, where
applicable,  in  accordance  with  the  transparency
requirements.

i. Transparency,  fairness  and  lawfulness (see
Section 5.1.2 below) for processing of personal
data,  special  categories  of  data,  and  data
relating  to  criminal  convictions  and  offences
(see  Article  5(1)(a),  and  Articles  6,  9,  and  10
GDPR);

ii. Purpose limitation (see Article 5(1)(b) GDPR);
iii. Data  minimisation  and  accuracy (see  Article

5(1)(c) and (d) GDPR);

iv. Limited  storage  periods (see  Article  5(1)(e)

GDPR);

v. Security (integrity  and  confidentiality,  see
Section 5.1.3 below, and Article 5(1)(f) GDPR);
and

Adopted - version for public consultation

34

5.1.2 Lawfulness of processing YES

NO

Article  47(2)(d),
Article 
5(1)(a),
and Articles  6
and 9 GDPR

5.1.3 Security  and  personal
data breach notifications

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(d)
and Articles 32 to
34 GDPR

vi. Onward transfers (see Section 5.1.4 below and

Chapter V GDPR).

The  BCR-C  should  contain  an  exhaustive  list  of  all
legal basis for processing which the BCR members
intend to rely on. Only legal basis as those stipulated
in Article 6(1) and (3) GDPR, or in other legal basis
laid  down  in  Union  or  Member  state  law,  as
permitted by the GDPR, can be used19.
In addition, special categories of personal data may
only  be  processed 
if  exemptions  as  the  ones
envisaged  by  Article  9(2)  GDPR apply.  The  BCR-C
should  contain  an  exhaustive 
list  of  all  such
exemptions.
Processing  of  personal  data  relating  to  criminal
convictions and offences shall be prohibited, unless
the  same  exemptions  as  the  ones  envisaged  by
Article 10 GDPR apply.
The  BCR-C  should 
include  a  commitment  to
implement appropriate technical and organisational
measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to
the  risk(s)  for  the  rights  and  freedoms  of natural
persons (see Article 5(f) and Article 32 GDPR). It is
not mandatory to  copy-paste  the  wording of  such
GDPR provisions. However, the BCR-C need to create
those obligations in a sufficiently elaborated manner
that is in line with the content of these provisions.
The BCR-C should include a duty to notify:

19 As regards possible conflicts with third country legal obligations, see Section 5.4.1 below.
Adopted - version for public consultation

35

- without  undue  delay,  any  personal  data
breaches to the Liable BCR member and the
relevant Privacy officer or Function, as well
as to the BCR member acting as a controller
when a BCR member acting as a processor
becomes aware of a data breach;

- without  undue  delay,  and,  where  feasible,
not later than 72 hours after having become
aware  of  the  personal  data  breach  to  the
Competent  SA,  unless  the  personal  data
breach  is  unlikely  to  result  in  a  risk  to  the
rights and freedoms of natural persons;

- without undue delay to data subjects, where
the personal data breach is likely to result in
a high risk to their rights and freedoms.

Furthermore,  any  personal  data  breach  should  be
documented  (comprising  the  facts  relating  to  the
personal data breach, its effects, and the remedial
action  taken),  and  the  documentation  should  be
made available to the Competent SA upon request
(see Articles 33 and 34 GDPR).
BCR-C should contain the commitment that personal
data that have been transferred under the BCR may
only  be  onward  transferred  outside  the  EEA to
processors and controllers which are not bound by
the BCR-C20 if the conditions for transfers laid down
in  Articles  44  to  46  GDPR  are  applied  in  order  to
ensure that the level of protection of natural persons
guaranteed  by  GDPR  is  not  undermined.  In  the

5.1.4  Restrictions  on  onward
transfers

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(d)
GDPR and Article
44 GDPR

20 For onward transfers to other BCR members outside the EEA, see Section 2.2 above.
Adopted - version for public consultation

36

5.2 Rights of data subjects

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(e),
Articles 12 to 19
and 21 to 22
GDPR

5.3 Accountability  and  other
tools

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(d),
and Articles 30,
35-36 GDPR

absence  of  an  adequacy  decision  or  appropriate
safeguards, BCR-C  may include  a  provision that
onward transfers may exceptionally take place if a
derogation applies in line with Article 49 GDPR.
The  BCR-C should  provide  data  subjects with  the
rights of information, access, rectification, erasure,
restriction,  notification  regarding  rectification  or
erasure or restriction, objection to processing, right
not  to  be  subject  to  decisions  based  solely  on
automated  processing,  including  profiling,
in the
same way as these rights are provided for by Articles
12 to 19, and Articles 21 and 22 GDPR.
It is not mandatory to copy-paste the wording of the
above-mentioned  GDPR  provisions.  However,  the
BCR-C need to  create those  rights  in  a sufficiently
elaborated manner that is in line with the content of
these provisions.
Every  BCR  member  acting  as  controller  shall  be
responsible for and able to demonstrate compliance
with the BCR-C (see Article 5(2) and Article 24 GDPR).
The BCR-C need to contain a commitment to enter
into  contracts  with all
internal  and  external
contractors/processors and must specify the content
of such contracts, as set out in Article 28(3) GDPR,
including  the  duty  to  follow  the  controller’s
instructions  and  implement  appropriate  technical
and organisational measures.
The BCR-C should contain  a  commitment  that,  in
order  to  demonstrate  compliance,  BCR  members
have to  maintain  a  record  of  all  categories  of

Adopted - version for public consultation

37

processing  activities  carried  out  on  personal  data
transferred  under  these  BCR-C.  The  BCR-C  must
specify the content of the record, in line with what is
required by Article 30(1) (for controllers) and Article
30(2)
(for  processors).  This  record  should  be
maintained in writing, including in electronic form,
and should be made available to the Competent SA
on request.
The BCR-C should contain the commitment that data
protection impact assessments should be carried out
for  processing  operations  on  personal  data
transferred  under  these  BCR-C that  are  likely  to
result  in  a  high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of
natural persons (see Article 35 GDPR).
Where  a  data  protection 
impact  assessment
indicates that the processing would result in a high
risk  in  the  absence  of  measures  taken  by  the
controller  to  mitigate  the  risk,  the BCR  member
acting  as  a  controller  should,  prior  to  processing,
consult the Competent SA (see Article 36 GDPR).
The  BCR-C  should  envisage  that  appropriate
technical and organisational measures designed to
implement  data  protection  principles  and  to
facilitate  compliance,
the
requirements  set  up  by  the  BCR-C,  should  be
implemented (data  protection  by  design  and  by
default – see Article 25 GDPR).

in  practice, with 

Adopted - version for public consultation

38

5.4.1  Local  laws  and  practices
affecting  compliance  with  the
BCR-C21

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(m)
GDPR

The  BCR-C shall contain  a  clear  commitment  that
BCR  members  will  use  the  BCR-C  as  a  tool  for
transfers only where they have assessed that the law
and  practices  in  the  third  country  of  destination
applicable to the processing of the personal data by
the BCR member acting as data importer, including
any  requirements  to  disclose  personal  data  or
measures  authorising  access  by  public  authorities,
do not prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under
these BCR-C.
The BCR-C should further specify that this is based
on the understanding that laws and practices that
respect the essence of the fundamental rights and
freedoms, and do not exceed what is necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard
one of the objectives listed in Article 23(1) GDPR, are
not in contradiction with the BCR-C.
The BCR-C should also contain a commitment that,
in  assessing  the  laws  and  practices  of  the  third
country  which  may  affect  the  respect  of  the
commitments  contained  in  the  BCR-C,  the  BCR
members have taken due account, in particular, of
the following elements:
i. The specific circumstances of the transfers or set
of  transfers,  and  of  any  envisaged onward
transfers within  the  same  third  country  or  to
another third country, including:

21 For further details, see EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal
data, available at https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/recommendations/recommendations-012020-measures-supplement-transfer_en.
Adopted - version for public consultation

39

-

-

-

-

-

-

purposes for which the data are transferred
and processed (e.g. marketing, HR, storage,
IT support, clinical trials);
types of entities involved in the processing
(the data importer and any further recipient
of any onward transfer);

economic sector in which the transfer or set
of transfers occur;
categories and format of the personal data
transferred;

location  of 
storage; and

the  processing,

including

transmission channels used.

ii. The  laws  and  practices  of  the  third  country  of
destination relevant in light of the circumstances
of  the  transfer22,  including  those  requiring  to
disclose data to public authorities or authorising
access  by  such  authorities and those  providing
for  access  to  these  data  during  the  transit
between  the  country  of  the data exporter  and
the country of the data importer, as well as the
applicable limitations and safeguards.

iii. Any 

relevant 

technical 
or
organisational  safeguards  put 
in  place  to
supplement  the  safeguards  under  the  BCR-C,

contractual, 

22 As regards the assessment of the impact of the laws and practices of the third countries, please see EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer
tools to ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal data.

Adopted - version for public consultation

40

the
including  measures 
transmission  and  to  the  processing  of  the
personal data in the country of destination.

applied 

during

The BCR-C should also contain a commitment that
where any safeguards in addition to those envisaged
under the BCR-C should be put in place, the Liable
BCR member(s), and the relevant Privacy officer or
Function will  be  informed  and  involved  in such
assessment.
The BCR-C should contain also an obligation for the
BCR  members  to  document  appropriately  such
assessment, as well as the supplementary measures
selected and implemented. They should make such
documentation available to the competent SAs upon
request.
The BCR-C should oblige any BCR member acting as
data importer to promptly notify the data exporter
if, when using these BCR-C as a tool for transfers, and
for  the  duration  of  the BCR membership,  it  has
reasons to believe that it is or has become subject to
laws or practices that would prevent it from fulfilling
its obligations under the BCR-C, including following
a  change  in  the  laws  in  the  third  country  or  a
measure  (such  as  a  disclosure  request).  This
information  should  also  be  provided  to  the Liable
BCR member(s).
Upon  verification  of  such  notification,  the  BCR
member  acting  as  data  exporter,  along  with  the
Liable BCR  member(s) and  the  relevant Privacy
officer  or  Function, should commit  to  promptly
identify supplementary measures (e.g. technical or

Adopted - version for public consultation

41

organisational  measures  to  ensure  security  and
confidentiality) to be adopted by the BCR member
acting  as data exporter  and/or data importer, in
order to enable them to fulfil their obligations under
the BCR-C. The same applies if a BCR member acting
as data exporter has reasons to believe that a BCR
member acting as its data importer can no longer
fulfil its obligations under this BCR-C.
Where  the  BCR  member  acting  as  data  exporter,
along  with  the Liable BCR  member(s) and  the
relevant Privacy  officer  or  Function, assesses  that
the BCR-C – even if accompanied by supplementary
measures – cannot be complied with for a transfer
or set of transfers, or if instructed by the Competent
SAs,  it  commits  to  suspend the  transfer  or  set  of
transfers at stake, as well as all transfers for which
the same assessment and reasoning would lead to a
similar result, until compliance is again ensured or
the transfer is ended.
The  BCR-C should contain  a  commitment  that
following such a suspension, the BCR member acting
as  data  exporter  has  to end  the  transfer or  set of
transfers if the BCR-C cannot be complied with and
compliance with the BCR is not restored within one
month of suspension. In this case, personal data that
have been transferred prior to the suspension, and
any copies thereof, should, at the choice of the BCR
member acting as data exporter, be returned to it or
destroyed in their entirety.
The  BCR-C should contain  a  commitment  that  the
liable BCR  member(s) and  the  relevant Privacy

Adopted - version for public consultation

42

5.4.2  Obligations  of  the  data
importer in case of government
access requests

YES

NO

Article  47(2)(m)
GDPR

so  that  the 

inform  all  other  BCR
officer  or  Function will 
members of the assessment carried out and of its
results,
identified  supplementary
measures will be applied in case the same type of
transfers is carried out by any other BCR member or,
where effective supplementary measures could not
be put in place, the transfers at stake are suspended
or ended.
The BCR-C needs to include a duty for data exporters
to  monitor,  on  an  ongoing  basis,  and  where
appropriate  in  collaboration  with  data  importers,
developments  in  the  third  countries  to  which  the
data exporters have transferred personal data that
could  affect  the  initial  assessment  of  the  level  of
protection  and  the  decisions  taken  accordingly  on
such transfers.
Without  prejudice  to  the  obligation  of  the  BCR
member acting as data importer to inform the data
exporter  of 
inability  to  comply  with  the
commitments contained in the BCR-C (see Section
5.4.1  above),  the  BCR-C should also  include  the
following commitments:
i.

its 

The BCR member acting as data importer will
promptly notify the data exporter and, where
possible, the data subject (if necessary with
the help of the data exporter) if it:
a) receives  a  legally  binding  request  by  a
public  authority  under  the  laws  of the
country  of  destination, or  of  an  another
third  country, for  disclosure  of  personal
data  transferred  pursuant  to  the  BCR-C;

Adopted - version for public consultation

43

such notification will include information
about  the  personal  data  requested,  the
requesting  authority,  the  legal  basis  for
the request and the response provided;

b) becomes  aware  of  any  direct  access  by
public  authorities 
to  personal  data
transferred  pursuant  to  the  BCR-C in
accordance with the laws of the country of
destination; such notification will include
all 
information  available  to  the data
importer.

If prohibited from notifying the data exporter
and / or the data subject, the data importer
will use its best efforts to obtain a waiver of
such prohibition, with a view to communicate
as much information as possible and as soon
as possible, and will document its best efforts
in order to be able to demonstrate them upon
request of the data exporter.
The data  importer will  provide  the  BCR
member acting  as data exporter,  at  regular
intervals, with as much relevant information
as  possible  on  the  requests  received  (in
particular, number of requests, type of data
requested, 
or
authorities,  whether  requests  have  been
challenged  and 
the  outcome  of  such
challenges,  etc.).  If the  data  importer  is or
becomes  partially  or completely  prohibited
from  providing  the  data  exporter  with  the
aforementioned information, it will, without

requesting 

authority 

ii.

iii.

Adopted - version for public consultation

44

importer will  preserve 

inform  the  data  exporter

undue  delay,
accordingly.
The data 
the
abovementioned  information  for  as  long  as
the personal data  are  subject  to  the
safeguards provided by the BCR-C, and shall
make it available to the Competent SAs upon
request.
The data importer will review the legality of
the  request  for  disclosure, 
in  particular
it  remains  within  the  powers
whether 
granted  to the  requesting  public  authority,
and will challenge the request if, after careful
assessment, 
it  concludes  that  there  are
reasonable  grounds  to  consider  that  the
request  is  unlawful  under  the  laws  of  the
country of destination, applicable obligations
under international  law, and  principles  of
international comity.
The data  importer will,  under  the  same
conditions, pursue possibilities of appeal.
When  challenging  a  request,  the data
importer will seek  interim  measures  with  a
view to suspending the effects of the request
until  the  competent  judicial  authority  has
decided on its merits. It will not disclose the
personal data requested until required to do
so under the applicable procedural rules.
The  data  importer will  document  its  legal
assessment and any challenge to the request

iv.

v.

vi.

Adopted - version for public consultation

45

vii.

for disclosure and, to the extent permissible
under the laws of the country of destination,
make  the  documentation  available  to  the
data exporter. It will also make it available to
the Competent SAs upon request.
The data importer will provide the minimum
amount  of  information  permissible when
responding to a request for disclosure, based
on a reasonable interpretation of the request.
In any case, the BCR-C should state that transfers of
personal  data  by  a  BCR  member  to  any  public
authority cannot be massive, disproportionate and
indiscriminate  in  a  manner  that  would  go  beyond
what is necessary in a democratic society (as to the
consequences  of 
Section
5.4.1above).

cases, 

such 

see 

6 - TERMINATION
6.1 Termination

YES

NO

Article
GDPR

70(1)(i)

The BCR-C should specify that a BCR member acting
as data importer, which ceases to be bound by the
BCR-C may keep, return, or delete the personal data
received under the BCR-C.
If the data exporter and data importer agree that the
data may be kept by the data importer, protection
must be maintained in accordance with Chapter V
GDPR.

7 – NON-COMPLIANCE

7.1. Non-Compliance

YES

NO

Article 
GDPR

70(1)(i)

The  BCR-C  should  contain  commitments  as  to  the
following obligations:

Adopted - version for public consultation

46

i.

ii.

No transfer is made to a BCR member unless
the BCR member is effectively bound by the
BCR-C and can deliver compliance.

The data importer should promptly inform
the data exporter if it is unable to comply
with  the  BCR-C,  for  whatever  reason,
including  the  situations  further  described
under Section 5.4.1 above.

iii. Where the data importer is in breach of the
BCR-C or unable to comply with them, the
data exporter should suspend the transfer.

iv.

The data importer should, at the choice of
the  data  exporter,  immediately  return  or
delete  the  personal  data  that  has  been
transferred under the BCR-C in its entirety,
where:

-

-

-

the  data  exporter  has  suspended  the
transfer, and compliance with this BCR-
C  is  not  restored  within  a  reasonable
time, and in any event within one month
of suspension; or

the  data  importer  is  in  substantial  or
persistent breach of the BCR-C; or

the data importer fails to comply with a
binding decision of a competent court or
Competent SA regarding its obligations
under the BCR-C.

Adopted - version for public consultation

47

8 - MECHANISMS FOR REPORTING AND RECORDING CHANGES
8.1 Process for updating the
BCR-C

Article  47(2)(k)
GDPR

YES

NO

The same commitments should apply to any copies
of  the  data.  The  data  importer  should  certify  the
deletion of the data to the data exporter.
Until  the  data  is  deleted  or  returned,  the  data
importer should continue to ensure compliance with
the BCR-C.
In case of local laws applicable to the data importer
that 
deletion
of the transferred personal data, the data importer
should  warrant  that  it  will  continue  to  ensure
compliance with the BCR-C, and will only process the
data to the extent and for as long as required under
that local law.
laws  and/or
For  cases  were  applicable 
practices  affect  compliance  with  the  BCR-C,  see
Section 5.4.1 above.

prohibit 

return 

local 

the 

or 

The BCR-C have to be kept up-to-date in order to
reflect  the  current  situation  (for  instance  to  take
into  account  modifications  of  the  regulatory
environment,  these  EDPB  Recommendations,  or
changes to the scope of the BCR-C).
The BCR-C should impose a duty to report changes,
including to the list of BCR members, without undue
delay, to all BCR members.
The  BCR-C 
identify  a  person  or
team/department that keeps a fully updated list of
the BCR members, keeps record of any updates to
the BCR-C, and provides the necessary information

should 

Adopted - version for public consultation

48

to data subjects, and, upon request, to Competent
SAs.
Where a modification to the BCR-C would possibly
be detrimental to the level of the protection offered
by  the  BCR-C  or  significantly  affect  them  (e.g.
changes  to  the  binding  character,  change  of  the
Liable BCR member(s)), it must be communicated in
advance to the SAs, via the BCR Lead, with a brief
explanation  of  the  reasons  for  the  update.  In  this
case, the SAs will also assess whether the changes
made require a new approval.
Any other changes to the BCR-C or to the list of BCR
members should be notified once a year to the SAs,
via  the  BCR  Lead,  with  a  brief  explanation  of  the
reasons  for  the  update. This  includes  any  changes
made in order to align the BCR-C with any updated
version of these EDPB Recommendations.
It remains the responsibility of the BCR-C holder to
keep it up-to-date and in compliance with Article 47
GDPR and these EDPB Recommendations.

The applicant should include a list of definitions in
the BCR-C. The list should include the most relevant
terms.  To  the  extent  the  BCR-C  contain  terms
defined in the GDPR, the definitions provided should
not vary from the GDPR. For better readability, these
definitions should be replicated in the list.

9 - DEFINITIONS

9.1 List of definitions

YES

NO

Article 
GDPR

70(1)(i)

Adopted - version for public consultation

49

If the terms “data exporter” and “data importer” are
used, they must be defined. The applicant may find
it useful to add further terms and their definitions.
If  the  term  “Competent  SA(s)”  is  used  by  the
applicant,  it  should  be  defined  as  referring  to  the
EEA  data  protection  SA  competent  for  the  data
exporter.
Where the term “applicable law” is used, it should
be  clarified,  in  each  case,  whether  it  refers  to
national/local law of a third country as applicable to
the BCR members. In any case, BCR members must
comply  with  the  requirements  set  out  under
Sections 5.4.1 and 5.4.2 above.
References to GDPR provisions should generally be
avoided. However, if there is a need for reference to
a  particular  provision  of  the  GDPR,  it  should  be
quoted in full in the BCR-C.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted - version for public consultation

50

