1/12

Litigation Chamber

 

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019

 

 

 

File number: DOS-2018-06502

 

Subject: Complaint against a candidate in the municipal elections for non-compliance with the

principle of finality in the context of the sending of electoral propaganda letters

 

 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke

Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Y. Poullet and C. Boeraeve, members, who takes up the case in

this composition;

 

 Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the

free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the

Data Protection), hereinafter GDPR;

 

Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority (hereinafter LCA);

 

Having regard to the internal rules of the Data Protection Authority as approved by the

Chamber of Representatives on December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

 

Considering the documents in the file;

 

Made the following decision regarding:

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 2/12

 

 

I.

Feedback from the procedure

Having regard to the complaint filed on October 21, 2018 by X with the Data Protection Authority;

 

Having regard to the decision of November 29, 2018 of the Frontline Service of the Authority for the Protection of

data declaring the complaint admissible and its transmission to the Litigation Chamber at this

same date;

  

Having regard to the decision taken by the Litigation Chamber during its session of December 19, 2018 to request

an investigation by the inspection service pursuant to Articles 63.2° and 94, 1° LCA;

 

Having regard to the referral from the Inspector General on the same date;

 

Having regard to the report and minutes of the Inspector General's investigation sent to the Chamber on April 4, 2019

Litigation whose findings are reproduced in this decision (see point III);

 

Having regard to the decision taken by the Litigation Chamber during its meeting of May 15, 2019 to consider that

the case was ready for substantive processing under Articles 95 § 1, 1° and 98 LCA;

 

Having regard to the communication, on May 20, 2019, of the report and minutes of the investigation by the Inspector General

to the parties and the invitation of the Litigation Chamber to the parties to put forward their arguments according to

an established schedule;

 

Considering the conclusions of the complainant, Mr. X, received on June 12, 2019;

 

II.

The facts and the subject of the complaint

The plaintiff, Mr. X, is a resident of the municipality of ….

 

Mr. Y is, at the material time, a candidate for the municipal elections of 2018 in …. He is an alderman

outgoing for 12 years and veterinarian.

 

In his complaint, Mr. X states that he received an electoral propaganda letter from

Mr. Y, letter addressed to him at the address he lived at when he was a customer at this

last in his capacity as a veterinarian. This letter mentions in particular the following:

“Dear customer, dear customer, madam, sir,

 

 

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 3/12

 

As six years ago, on the eve of the municipal elections, I am writing to ask you

to put your trust in me. With the help of the college, I think I obtained a very

positive in my aldermen.

 

(…)

 

Health: all the sterilization campaigns for stray cats in our municipality, this

campaign is beginning to bear fruit. Premiums for sterilization and identification of

domestic cats (you can still benefit from it). Connecting physicians with a

fixed price medical structure. My approach is leading to the creation of a center

medical at...

 

Thank you for your trust.

Dr Y, veterinarian, alderman at … for 12 years

 

Mr. X complains about the reuse by Mr. Y of his client file for electoral purposes. It

wants as proof that the address to which said mail is addressed to him is the one at which he resided from

time when she went to Mr. Y as a veterinarian. He says he has another address.

since and no longer been a client of Monsieur Y for more than 10 years.

 

III.

The Inspector General's investigation report and minutes

According to his investigation report and minutes, the Inspector General makes the following observations:

 

Finding 1: "In his reply letter [either in response to a request for information

of the Inspector General], Mr Y mentions that the register of electors and the list emanating from his

client file were used to send personalized campaign letters to clients and

other people. He writes "A posteriori, I recognize that I could not use my listing

“customer” given the GDPR which was put in place a few weeks before the mail “”.

 

Finding 2: "The listing from Mr Y's customer file mentions with regard to the address

of the complainant “…” while the register of electors indicates “….”.

.

 

 

 

 

 

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 4/12

 

IV.

As for the competence of the APD, in particular of the Litigation Chamber

As to the competence of the Data Protection Authority, in particular the

Litigation Chamber

 

Pursuant to Article 4 § 1 of the LCA, the Data Protection Authority is responsible for the

control of compliance with the fundamental principles of the protection of personal data,

under the Law of 3 December 2017 creating the Data Protection Authority

(LCA) and laws containing provisions relating to the protection of the processing of personal data.

personal character.

 

Pursuant to Article 33 §1 of the LCA, the Litigation Chamber is the litigation body

administration of the Authority. It is seized of the complaints that the Service de première ligne forwards to it in

application of Article 62 § 1 LCA, i.e. admissible complaints provided that in accordance with Article

60 paragraph 2 LCA, these complaints are written in one of the national languages; contain a statement

of the facts and the indications necessary to identify the processing of personal data

to which they relate and fall within the jurisdiction of the Data Protection Authority.

 

In a judgment of October 23, 20191, the Court of Markets confirms in this respect that:

“De bevoegdheid van de GBA strekt zich enkel uit tot het oordelen over eencorrect naleving van de

AVG en de Belgische privacywetgeving zoals duidelijk omschreven in de GBA-wet”.

[Translation: The competence of the DPA is limited only to pronouncing on the correct compliance with the

GDPR and Belgian privacy legislation, as clearly specified in the APD law]2.

 

Consequently, the Data Protection Authority is not competent to rule on

a possible violation of the internal rules of the Municipal Council (article 75-17) which would not be

does not constitute a breach of data protection rules or the validity of a

decision of inadmissibility of a request for citizen interpellation submitted by the complainant, two

grievances invoked by the complainant under the conclusions he filed which do not relate to the

compliance with the fundamental principles of the protection of personal data with regard to

processing of personal data identified and as defined in Article 4 1) and 2) of the Regulation

general on data protection (GDPR).

 

 

                                                

1 Hof van Beroep Brussel, sectie Marktenhof, 19de kamer A, kamer voor marktzaken, arrest dd. October 23, 2019.

 

2 Free translation carried out by the Secretariat of the Data Protection Authority in the absence of an official translation.

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 5/12

 

v.

On the reasons for the decision

On the breach of the obligation to process the data in a manner compatible with the

purposes for which they were collected

 

In his capacity as data controller, Mr. Y is required to respect the principles of

data protection and must be able to demonstrate that these are respected (principle of

liability – section 5.2. GDPR). He must also implement all the measures

necessary for this purpose (Article 24 of the GDPR).

 

The purpose principle is a cornerstone of data protection. Dedicated since 1981 to

Article 5 b) of the Convention for the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of

personal data of the Council of Europe (ETS 108), it is set out in Article 6 § 1 b) of

Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection

natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and to the free

circulation of this data as well as Article 4 § 1, 2° of the Law of 8 December 1992 relating to the

protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data. When

consecration of the right to data protection as a fundamental right by the Charter of

fundamental rights in 2000, it was enunciated as a key element of this right. This principle has, in all

logical, has been included in Article 5.1.b) of the GDPR under the Principles relating to the processing of data

of a personal nature (Chapter II).

 

Article 5 § 1 b) of the GDPR thus provides that:

“1. Personal data must be: (…) b) collected for the purposes

determined, explicit and legitimate, and not to be further processed in a manner

incompatible with these purposes; further processing for archival purposes in the interest

public, for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes is not

considered in accordance with Article 89 paragraph 1, as incompatible with the purposes

initials” (limitation of purposes).

 

In other words, this principle requires that data be collected for specific purposes,

explicit and legitimate, and not further processed in a manner inconsistent with these

purposes. Further processing of personal data for purposes other than the one(s)

for which this data was initially collected is only permitted if this

further processing is compatible with the purposes for which the personal data

were initially collected, taking into account the link between the purposes for which they were

collected and the purposes of the subsequent processing envisaged, the framework in which the personal data

personal have been collected, of the possible consequences of the further processing envisaged for the

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 6/12

data subject and the existence of appropriate safeguards. A compatible purpose is by

example a purpose which the data subject can foresee or which can be considered as

compatible under a legal provision (see article 6.4. of the GDPR).

 

In its "Elections" note published in the early 2000s on its website and updated

following the entry into force of the GDPR3, the Data Protection Authority mentions that:

“However, political parties and their candidates in an election may be tempted to have

use of personal data collected in the context of other processing

whose primary purpose had nothing to do with electoral propaganda. It is also worth

for data extracted from public sector files (such as the National Registry,

civil service personnel file data, a list of people assisted by

a CPAS, data obtained in the exercise of an alderman's mandate, ...) that

for data from files in the private sector (customer file of a company, list of

members of an association, etc.)

 

The note goes on to state:

“With this in mind, it is therefore not permitted to reuse personal data

recorded in the aforementioned files for the purpose of electoral propaganda. Such treatment

is incompatible with the purposes for which this data was initially collected,

which is punishable under Article 83.5 GDPR”.

  

Any further incompatible use is prohibited except for two exceptions provided for in Article 6.4. from

GDPR. Where the data subject has given consent to further processing for a

distinct purpose or where the processing is based on a legal provision which constitutes a measure

necessary and proportionate in a democratic society, in particular for the guarantee of purposes

important in the public interest, the controller still has the possibility of processing

subsequently such personal data for other purposes, whether compatible

or not with the initial purposes.

 

The Litigation Chamber specifies in this respect that the consent of the person concerned must

relate to further processing for a distinct purpose and not constitute, where applicable, the basis

legitimacy of the first treatment. In other words, it matters little in this regard whether the processing of

                                                
3 Processing of personal data for the purpose of personalized mailings of electoral propaganda and respect for life

privacy of citizens: fundamental principles,

https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/Note_elections_RGPD.pdf

 

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 7/12

initial data is itself based on consent. Either way, care must be taken that the

data subject is informed of such other purposes and of his or her rights.4

 

According to the reply letter he sent to the Inspector General (letter received on March 13, 2018

by the latter), Mr. Y does not dispute having used the personal data of the customer file

that he maintains in his capacity as a veterinarian to address to these clients (list of 654 people in total)

a letter inviting them to vote for him in the municipal elections of October 2018. The Chamber

Contentious takes note in this regard of the written statements it made by letter received on March 13, 2019

during the Inspection as well as the terms used in the litigious electoral mail which begins

by "Dear customer" and end with a signature that states his status as a veterinarian. the

report of the Inspector General of April 4, 2019 also mentions this.

As the Litigation Chamber decided in its decision 4/2019 of May 28, 20195, this use

subsequent processing of personal data is incompatible with the primary purpose of the processing, i.e. the

maintenance of a customer file, and is not permitted by the GDPR.

In conclusion, it follows from the above that by using a professional file constituted at the start

personal data of clients the consultant as a veterinarian to send to these clients

a letter in the context of the October municipal elections intended to invite them to vote for him,

Mr. Y has processed the said personal data in a manner incompatible with the purpose

initial collection of such data - even if it was lawful - and this, in disregard of Articles 5

§ 1 b) and 6.4. of the GDPR.

The Litigation Chamber generally recalls that any processing of personal data

personal – including the initial collection but also the storage of the data collected

in particular – must be based on one of the bases of lawfulness provided for in Article 6 of the GDPR. Rights,

information, in particular, of the data subject as provided for in Chapter III of the GDPR must

also be respected.

In addition, the data cannot, pursuant to Article 5 § 1 e) of the GDPR, be stored under

a form allowing the identification of the persons concerned for a period not exceeding

that necessary with regard to the purposes for which they are processed.

                                                
4 Processing of personal data for the purpose of personalized mailings of electoral propaganda and respect for life

privacy of citizens: fundamental principles:

https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/Note_elections_RGPD.pdf

 

5 This decision has been published: https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/sites/privacycommission/files/documents/BETG04-
2019ANO_FR.pdf

 

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 8/12

 

VI.

On corrective measures and sanctions

Under the terms of Article 100 LCA, the Litigation Chamber has the power to:

1. 1° close the complaint without further action;
2. 2° order the dismissal;
3. 3° order a suspension of the pronouncement;

4° to propose a transaction;

5° issue warnings or reprimands;

6° order to comply with requests from the data subject to exercise these rights;

(7) order that the person concerned be informed of the security problem;

8° order the freezing, limitation or temporary or permanent prohibition of processing;

9° order the processing to be brought into conformity;

10° order the rectification, restriction or erasure of the data and the notification thereof

data recipients;

11° order the withdrawal of accreditation from certification bodies;

12° to issue periodic penalty payments;

13° to impose administrative fines;

14° order the suspension of cross-border data flows to another State or an organization

international;

15° forward the file to the public prosecutor's office in Brussels, who informs it of the follow-up

data on file;

16° decide on a case-by-case basis to publish its decisions on the website of the Authority for the protection of

data.

 

As for the administrative fine that may be imposed pursuant to Articles 83 of the GDPR and the

articles 100, 13° and 101 LCA, article 83 of the GDPR provides:

“Article 83 GDPR

1.

Each supervisory authority shall ensure that the administrative fines imposed in

under this article for breaches of this Regulation, referred to in paragraphs 4,

5 and 6 are, in each case, effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

 

2.

Depending on the specific characteristics of each case, the administrative fines are

imposed in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in point (2) of Article 58

a) to h), and j). To decide whether to impose an administrative fine and to decide

of the amount of the administrative fine, due account shall be taken, in each case,

of the following elements:

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 9/12

(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the nature, scope or

the purpose of the processing concerned, as well as the number of data subjects affected

and the level of damage they suffered;

b) whether the breach was committed willfully or negligently;

c) any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate the

damage suffered by the persons concerned;

d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account

the technical and organizational measures they have implemented pursuant to Articles

25 and 32;

e) any relevant breach previously committed by the controller or the

subcontracting;

f) the degree of cooperation established with the supervisory authority with a view to remedying the breach

and to mitigate any negative effects;

(g) the categories of personal data affected by the breach;

h) how the supervisory authority became aware of the breach, including whether, and

the extent to which the controller or processor notified the breach;

(i) where measures referred to in Article 58(2) have previously been ordered

against the controller or processor concerned for the same purpose,

compliance with these measures;

(j) the application of codes of conduct approved under Article 40 or mechanisms

certificates approved under section 42; and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance applicable to the circumstances of

the species, such as the financial advantages obtained or the losses avoided, directly or

indirectly, as a result of the violation.

 

As for the nature of the violation (article 83.2.a) of the GDPR), the Litigation Chamber recalled that the

compliance with the purpose principle is an essential and founding principle of data protection. This

principle, enshrined in Article 5 of the GDPR (Chapter II – Principles; Article 5 - principles relating to the

processing of personal data) applies not only from the entry

in application of the GDPR on May 24, 2018 but since the entry into force in 1993 of the Law of

8 December 1992 relating to the processing of personal data which preceded it. The no-

compliance with this fundamental principle is, according to the Litigation Chamber, constituting a breach

serious.

 

The Litigation Chamber notes that Mr. Y makes amends while indicating that the GDPR

was set up a few weeks before it was sent. This last element, however, does not stand up to

analysis. At the time of the events, compliance with the principle of finality had applied for more than 25

years already.

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 10/12

 

As for the intention on the part of Mr. Y, this is proven. He did not act negligently but

deliberately used the list of his clients in his capacity as a veterinarian to contact them in

the context of the municipal elections of October 2018 in …

  

As for the purpose of the processing (art. 83.2.a) of the GDPR), the Litigation Chamber notes that it

is to encourage mail recipients to vote for a particular candidate. If this is good

given the purpose of any election campaign, respect for the laws in the context of it is

particularly important. In this regard, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) has

recently recalled the importance of data protection rules in the electoral context by

these terms: "compliance with data protection rules, including in the context of

electoral activities and campaigns, is essential to the protection of democracy. It is also a

means of preserving the confidence of citizens and the integrity of elections”6.

 

The quality of alderman of Mr. Y since 2006 would have, as underlined by the Litigation Chamber

in its decision 04/2019 of 28 May 2019 already cited7, moreover had to be accompanied by a

exemplary behavior with regard to compliance with legislation, including that of the protection

data, especially in the electoral context. This quality of public representative already

at the time of the facts is retained by the Litigation Chamber in the assessment of the seriousness of the

breach. Mr. Y having also been elected since October 2018 as a councilor

council, the Litigation Chamber also takes this element into account in the assessment of the

effectiveness that any sanction must have under Article 83 of the GDPR.

 

The Litigation Chamber also considers that if the categories of personal data

processed, (article 83.2. g) of the GDPR), (surname, first name and postal address) are not likely to carry

an irreparable breach of the privacy and protection of the data of the recipients of these letters,

on the other hand, in the electoral context and having regard to the purpose of the processing already mentioned, the number

                                                
6 See. European Data Protection Board (EDPB), Statement 2/2019 on the use of personal data in the course of political

campaigns (13 March 2019): “Compliance with data protection rules, including in the context of electoral activities and political

campaigns, is essential to protect democracy. It is also a means to preserve the trust and confidence of citizens and the integrity

of elections”.

7 Decision of the Disputes Chamber 04/2019 of 28 May 2019 states in this regard the following: “This [read respect for

rules set by the GDPR] applies to any data controller and a fortiori to the holder of a public office such as a

mayor. The citizen must have the certainty that the data which he entrusts to the holder of a public mandate in the exercise of

its functions will not be used for other purposes, in violation of the law. What is more, this is a use for

personal purposes of the holder of this mandate. We must be able to expect a mayor to be aware of the obligations

arising from the GDPR or that he properly informs himself about it. The fact that the media are very attentive to the application of the

GDPR also matters. The Litigation Chamber considers that a mayor must lead by example when it comes to

to obey the law”.

 

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 11/12

of people concerned (654) - all the more so given the number of potential voters in a municipality

like that of … - is not negligible.

 

Finally, the Litigation Chamber wonders about the explicit reference in the litigious letter to a

bonus for the sterilization and identification of cats whose clients of Mr. Y could always

benefit and which would invite, even indirectly, to a visit to the veterinarian which he could therefore

withdraw a financial advantage (article 83.2.k) of the GDPR) .

The Litigation Chamber specifies that the other criteria listed in Article 83.2. of the GDPR are, in

this case, not likely to lead to an administrative fine of an amount other than that

which it fixes under the terms of this decision.

In conclusion, in view of the elements developed above specific to this case, the Chamber

Litigation considers that the facts found and the breach established in Articles 5 § 1 b) and 6.4.

of the GDPR, justify that as an effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanction as provided for in

Article 83 of the GDPR and taking into account the assessment factors listed in Article 83.2. of the GDPR, a

reprimand (article 100 § 1, 5° LCA), accompanied by an administrative fine of 5000

euros (article 100 § 1, 13 and 101 LCA) be pronounced against Mr Y.

For all the aforementioned reasons, and in order to remind all public officials of the right

applicable to the protection of personal data and the prohibition on the use of data files

citizens for purposes other and incompatible with the purposes for which they were

initially collected, the Litigation Chamber considers it essential to make its decision public

on the basis of article 100 § 1, 16° LCA, however omitting all the data that allow

the direct identification of the parties. In doing so, the Data Protection Authority acts in accordance

at the wish of the legislator provided for in Article 7, 2° of the Law of 5 May 2019 amending the Code of instruction

Criminal Code and the Judicial Cde with regard to the publication of judgments and judgments, anticipating

thus the entry into force of this provision (M.B. 16 May 2019).

FOR THESE REASONS,

 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation, to:

-

Issue a reprimand to Mr. Y on the basis of Article 100 § 1, 5°

ACL;

 

-

Impose against Mr. Y an administrative fine in the amount of 5000

euros pursuant to Articles 100 § 1, 13° and 101 LCA;

 

 

...

Decision on the merits 11/2019 of 25/11/2019- 12/12

- Make its decision public on the basis of Article 100 § 1, 16° LCA by publishing it on its

website https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/ omitting however any element

allowing the direct identification of the parties.

 

Under Article 108, § 1 LCA, this decision may be appealed to the Court of

markets within 30 days of its notification, with the Authority for the protection of

given as a defendant.

 

 

 

 

Hielke Hijmans

President of the Litigation Chamber

 

