1/21

 Procedure No.: PS/00066/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant), dated 09/28/2019, filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency against Don B.B.B., with
NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed).

The reasons on which he bases his claim are that "he was accepted as a person
to a voluntary bankruptcy, XXX/2019, and “The claimed party has sent
emails to various addresses of officials and positions of the work center of the
claimant, ***AGENCY.1, and has filed on ***DATE.2 a brief on behalf
of it through the electronic headquarters,” to email addresses
   "of
Councilors, personnel section, treasury area and even to the citizen's mailbox,
to which various officials have access revealing all the information of the process
court of its voluntary competition and requiring the City Council to adopt all the
precise measures so that the affected party does not receive any remuneration without the request
of the bankruptcy administration.” The claimant requested the City Council to
2***DATE.4 delivery of a copy of the aforementioned documents.

 

 
 The claimant has filed various complaints and reports before the College of
Lawyers of ***LOCALIDAD.2, Police, and in the Court his recusal. Provide copies.

It ends by indicating that "as a consequence of this harassment suffered, it has caused

 
medical sick leave." Provide a copy of medical leave ***DATE.1 estimated duration 34 days.

It also provides the following documentation:

1) -Copy of edict of 06/20/2019 of the court of 1st instance number 3 of
*** LOCATION.1, (hereinafter the Court) in compliance with the provisions of the
article 23 of the Bankruptcy Law 22/2003 of 9/07, in which it is announced:

- In relation to the bankruptcy proceedings of the claimant, XXX/2019,
declared by order of ***DATE.5, the name and surname data are listed and
full address and location of the claimant.

- “That it retains powers of administration and disposition of its assets
subject to the intervention of the insolvency administrator who is appointed” (the
claimed, including your data).

- “That the creditors of the bankrupt must direct the administration
insolvency the existence of their credits in the form and with the data expressed in the
art 85 of the L.C. For these purposes, it is reported that the designated bankruptcy administration
has been D. B.B.B., with professional address at ***ADDRESS.1, telephone … and mail
***EMAIL.1- The deadline for this communication is one month from

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/21

the last publication of the announcements that have been ordered to be published in the Official Gazette
of the State.”

- “That the creditors and interested parties who wish to appear in the proceeding
They must do so through an Attorney and the assistance of a Lawyer (article 184.3
LC).”

SECOND: On 10/3/2019, the claimant provides further information by providing:

1) A written copy of the documentation delivered by the personnel section of the
***BODY.1 on 10/2/2019 “REPORT OF THE PERSONNEL SECTION OF THE
CITY COUNCIL” of two pages, with the following details:

a. It is reported on a page, that through the electronic headquarters of the City Council
***DATE.2, registration number that identifies, has a written entry in the terms
give us an email, stating as interested Mrs. "A.A.A." Y
as a representative, identifies the claimed party, attaching the order of the court of first instance
stantia number 3 of ***LOCALIDAD.1 for which he is appointed bankruptcy administrator
and stating the conversation held by C.C.C.”, “attaching a copy of the
documents received in this City Council to which this section has had access
of personal".

b. The other page contains a reproduction copy of the document received on ***FE-
CHA.3, in the personnel section, email address personal@ORGA-
NISMO.1 and with a copy to hacienda@ORGANISMO.1, treasury@ORGANISMO.1 and bu-
zonciudadadano@ORGANISMO.1, addressed to the Mayor, Chief of Staff, Chief of Service
treasury, and chief treasury service. The origin of the mail indicates ***EMAIL.2 and
contains 5 attachments. In the subject there is “insolvency proceedings” name and surname
two of the claimant”.

It is reported in the mail that the claimant "has suspended the powers of
administration and management of its assets, the exclusive exercise corresponding to the ad-
insolvency minister appointed by the court and must immediately take
measures necessary to prevent the bankrupt company from receiving on account of its remuneration
salaries or any other rights that any person may have in that City Council.
any quantity or commercial economic patrimonial right”, pointing out as documents
Associated items in the mail:

a-declaration of insolvency and modification documents.

b- credential of the insolvency administrator of the trial court of

06/20/2019.

c- BOE publication.

d- RPC publication.

2) Copy of the letter from the bankruptcy administrator addressed to the mayor, in which he states:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/21

 “as a continuation of our email today”...” and the telephonic conversation
phonic with C.C.C., of the personnel legal office”, also identifies the claimant
with the social security number. The literal of the writing is the same as that of the mail
electronically, and attach the documentation outlined in a) to d) and the email of ***DATE.3.

3)

In another letter also with entry of 3/10, the claimant provides the aforementioned

documents, consisting of:

 

a) Order of the Court, of correction of omission and defect noticed in the
 ***DATE.4 in which it corrects that of Y/YY/ definitively determining
Y/YY, dated
states that: “the bankrupt is suspended in his faculties of administration and
position on its assets, the exercise of these being subject to the intervention
of the insolvency administrators by means of authorization or conformity until the
conclusion of the contest", it is also omitted that it was missing that "the liquidation phase is opened-
tion”.

In the lower part of the order, it is indicated “The dissemination of the text of this resolution
tion to parties not interested in the process in which it has been issued may only carry
carried out prior dissociation of the personal data that they contain.
they saw and with full respect for the right to privacy, the rights of people
that require a special duty of protection or the guarantee of anonymity of the victims or
harmed where appropriate. The personal data included in this resolution does not
may be transferred or communicated for purposes contrary to the law.”

a) Copy of the aforementioned order, dated ***DATE.5, on the request for insolvency

voluntary for insolvency of the claimant in which it is contained that:

“It is ordered to announce the declaration of the contest in the Official Gazette of the
State for the urgent procedure and in the bankruptcy public registry”, makes an appeal
creditors to inform the bankruptcy administration
existence of their credits and the existence of the process is notified to the Tax Agency
the General Treasury of the Social Security”. In point 7 “Appeal to creditors
it is indicated that "agreeing as publicity for this declaration the publication
free publication in the BOE of an extract of the declaration, collecting the data
essential for the identification of the bankrupt, the patrimonial regime in the
that its faculties remain, the competent court, the number of cars, the number
of the procedure, the date of declaration, the term for the communication of
credits and full identification of the bankruptcy administration”

b) Copy of BOE of ***DATE.6 of the court of first instance and instruc-
***LOCALIDAD.1 that publishes the edict stating the number of the procedure
ment and data of the claimant with her address, which has been declared insolvent
volunteer by order of ***DATE.5 and the data of the bankruptcy administrator.

THIRD: In view of the facts, on 01/30/2019 the claim was transferred to the
claimed to analyze the claim and within a maximum period of one month, from
receipt, send:

1.

The decision adopted regarding the claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/21

Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the

two.
claim.

Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring

3.
similar, dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify their effectiveness.

Four.

Any other that you consider relevant.

FOURTH: On 12/4/2019, a new document is received from the claimant in which
provides record of declaration of preliminary proceedings of the court instruction number one
of ***LOCALITY.1 made on ***DATE.7 for the complaint filed by the
facts. It is a statement given by the claimant before the instructor, the
***DATE.7, at the National Police station, stating a series of
manifestations for the denounced facts. The instructor pointed out that it is in
in relation to the preliminary proceedings RRRR/2019, trial court one of
***LOCATION.1.

FIFTH: On 12/18/2019, a response was received from the respondent, stating:

1) Your treatment responds to the legal obligations established in the law
bankruptcy, considering that the processing of personal data of the
claimant is carried out within a judicial proceeding whose exercise is
jurisdiction of the aforementioned judicial body. The debtor had all the powers of
disposition and administration of his patrimony suspended and, he could not dispose
autonomously of any amount of money that was not delivered by the
bankruptcy administration, or by the court. Sending the message and documentation
attached to the Hon. ***ORGANISM.1, was made to several email accounts
of the City Council itself, due to the urgent need to prevent the debtor from
harm the interests of the creditors, and the obligation of the administration
bankruptcy to pay creditors with the money obtained from the compensation
salaries paid by the City Council, reducing the money allocated to the payment of
their credits, for the refusal, reluctance, and obstruction carried out by the complainant to the
bankruptcy administration, preventing knowledge of the competent body to direct the
communication from the court, and/or the responsible person to contact.

As evidence, I attach briefs presented in the judicial proceeding:

E1. Brief of 08/28/19, addressed to the Court “recalling the obligation of the debtor
dor to appear before the court and before the bankruptcy administration, as well as the
collaborate and inform in everything necessary or convenient for the interest of the contest
informs the court, how he knows in a letter that he sent on August 23, 2019
and accompanying documents, which the bankrupt refuses to provide to the administration.
bankruptcy tion the necessary funds for the interest of the bankruptcy.”

 In point 3 “it is indicated that, for the fulfillment of the obligations, it has been
tendered, requested and required to the bankrupt to inform and deliver various information
information and documentation in relation to their relations with the Association for Helping the
Family Indebtedness, the monetary dispositions what do you do of your bank accounts?
carias etc., however, the bankrupt has not complied, preventing the work of the
bankruptcy administration”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/21

E2, written on 09/26/19, addressed to the Court requesting that the bankrupt
to proceed to the delivery and deposit of the vehicle to avoid harming the mass
bankruptcy and creditors.

E3. Written communication of 10/18/19, reiterating to the court that it take notice of
the refusal of the bankrupt to provide the information and documentation requested, to
in order to be reminded of the obligation to collaborate with the administration of the contest,
requiring it for the delivery of all the information and documentation necessary to
the good end of the contest, and for the fulfillment of the obligations of the same with all
two your creditors, warning you of the consequences in case of default, and
warning him of the sanctions that could be imposed.

1) It adds that the claim presented was, immediately after the
briefs presented in court denouncing the lack of collaboration of the
complainant, and also, just after claiming in court the relationship/
existing relationship between the debtor, the ***ASOCIATION.1 and the Lawyer Ms. D.D.D.,
and that both the complainant and the AEF Association and its Lawyer, tried by all
the media "get rid" of the current bankruptcy administration, in the procedure
Notarized Extrajudicial Payment Agreement (AEP) for which he was appointed

  The

Attached document E6, which deals with an email received, from the
AEF Association, stating at the bottom of the copy of the email the literal AEF EXPERTS
BANKRUPTCY.
the direction
***ASOCIACION.1@gmail.com, to ***EMAIL.1, on 10/14/2019, and refers to the
bankrupt: “She told us that you keep calling her. I think it's left
verified that we are your Lawyers… I spoke with the lawyer of the court last
Friday and we agree that the moment you resign we will withdraw
application for removal from office.

ships from

mail

 

2) It ends by indicating that “he is a professional natural person who has double
condition economist and lawyer with office located in a small office of the
city of ***LOCALIDAD.2, without having any worker or collaborator on behalf
someone else's, or their own, at their expense.

As a consequence of the person in charge working only as an administrator
insolvency proceedings, the means available to it are very limited in terms of the capacity
capacity to carry out greater or more extensive actions than those currently carried out
in the processing of personal data.

And finally, its economic and financial capacity is at the same level as

the one indicated with respect to the professional tasks performed.”

SIXTH: On 02/17/2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agrees to accept the claim for processing.

SEVENTH: On 04/16/2020, the PUBLIC REGISTRY is accessed on the web
BANKRUPTCY,
 https://www.publicidadconcursal.es/concursal-web/, appearing as
entry:

Welcome to the Public Bankruptcy Registry

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/21

The Public Bankruptcy Registry is configured as a tool available
of the various creditors of the bankrupt and also of the Administration of Justice,
that facilitates the communication of the resolutions adopted by the Mercantile Courts.
edge to the different public registries, knowledge of other insolvency situations
them with which it can maintain connection and of the negotiation files of the
extrajudicial payment agreements.

All this contributes to the improvement of legal certainty with regard to
insolvency proceedings or their preventive procedures and greater agility
procedural.

Through this Portal, grouped under the insolvent debtor, it is made available
decision of the creditors the different procedural, bankruptcy and/or
extrajudicial agreements ordered by date of publication.

The content of the Public Bankruptcy Registry is structured in three sections,

as established in article 198 of the Bankruptcy Law.

The first section will give the publicity corresponding to the proposed resolutions.
dismissal issued during the bankruptcy process and to which publicity must be given
according to the law. This section also includes those resolutions that or-
decided by the Judge under the provisions of article 23.2 of the Bankruptcy Law.

The second section contains the registry resolutions noted in the dis-
red public records, including those that declare the guilt of the bankrupt and
those that appoint or disqualify the insolvency administrators.

The third section, relating to out-of-court settlements, contains the information
precise information on the initiation and completion of the procedures to achieve the
extrajudicial payment agreements regulated in Title X of the Bankruptcy Law, as well as
such as the forecasts of edictal publicity of the process of judicial homologation of the
refinancing agreements of the fourth additional provision of the Bankruptcy Law.

The Public Bankruptcy Registry depends on the Ministry of Justice, which finds
amend its management to the College of Property, Mercantile and Property Registrars.
Movable Property of Spain.

With regard to the operation of the Public Bankruptcy Registry, they are the
Courts, Attorneys, Mercantile Registrars, Notaries and other public registries.
cos those who provide the information of the different contests and files of
extrajudicial agreement that must be incorporated into the Public Bankruptcy Registry.”

Both Entering the NIF of the claimant and the name and surnames appear
the same. If name and surnames are entered, the NIF is seen; and if the NIF is entered
names and surnames appear. It is consigned as informative literal

"CAVEAT:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/21

It is noted that the data and documents that are processed and published on this portal,
have been published directly by the Commercial Courts, Attorneys,
Commercial Registrars, Notaries, Bankruptcy Administrators, Chambers of
Commerce and by the public registries of persons in which the entries are made
provided for in the Bankruptcy Law.

The College of Property, Mercantile and Movable Property Registrars
of Spain provides its technological services for the correct management of the portal, not
providing or modifying data or documents at any time, therefore, DO NOT
CAN GUARANTEE THE INTEGRITY OF THE INFORMATION PUBLISHED since
this depends on the fulfillment of the obligations of third parties outside the College of
Registrars.

For all of the above, in case of finding any discrepancy in the
published information, or no information was found that was legal or
regulations should be published, please contact the person who sent or
should have sent the information to the Public Bankruptcy Registry (if applicable, to the Courts
of the Mercantile, Attorneys, Mercantile Registrars, Notaries and the registries
seats of people in which the seats provided for in the Law are made
Bankruptcy).

Clicking on the name opens a new informative tab showing, the

mark in “debtor” and:

“We inform you that the personal data that is processed and published in
this portal, have been published directly by the Commercial Courts, the
Commercial Registrars, Notaries, Bankruptcy Administrators, Chambers
of Commerce and by the public registries in which the planned entries are made
in the Bankruptcy Law, being the person in charge of the Public Bankruptcy Registry the
Ministry of Justice. Likewise, we inform you that the College of Registrars of the
Property, Mercantile and Movable Assets of Spain acts as the person in charge of the
treatment of the Ministry of Justice in the terms provided in the policy of
privacy of the portal, mainly providing its technological services for the
correct management of the portal, not providing or modifying data or documents in it
portal at any time, being the purpose and use of the data incorporated into the
Public Bankruptcy Registry those provided for in the Bankruptcy Law and other regulations
applicable, without being used for a different purpose.

For all of the above, in case of finding any discrepancy in the
published information, please contact in the first place the person who sent the
information published in the Public Bankruptcy Registry (if applicable, to the Courts
of the Mercantile, the Mercantile Registrars, the Notaries and the public registries in
which the entries provided for in the Bankruptcy Law are made).

Below "list of publications" appearing two, in section III

called “out of court settlements”

In a figure such as resolution type "appointment bankruptcy mediator" and the
file number. In the other also the "adoption or not of the extrajudicial agreement
of payments” (can be downloaded in pdf)”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/21

If you click on “insolvency mediator appointment” the personal data will appear
of the claimant, the data of the insolvency mediator, including the email
***EMAIL.1. The screen shows the date of last update Thursday 02/28/2019. It can
download in pdf.

In "Agreement or not of extrajudicial payment agreement" the data is reproduced
of the claimant, showing the date of resolution 02/11/2019, adoption of the
agreement “is not adopted” and in the operative part: “An agreement has not been reached
extrajudicial payment and proceeds to the closing of the notarial deed. The mediator
named insolvency will decide, where appropriate, the application for the insolvency
creditors.” The screen shows the date of last update Thursday 05/09/2019. I know
you can download in pdf.

It is incorporated into the procedure with literal 04/16/20 accesses two

pdfs.

EIGHTH: On 04/20/2020, a query is made in the application that manages
sanctions and the claimed appears without prior records.

NINTH: On 06/08/2020 the director agreed:

“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE of WARNING to B.B.B.,
with NIF ***NIF.1, for the alleged infringement of 5.1.a) of the RGPD, in accordance with the
articles 83.5 a) and 58.2.b) of the RGPD.”

TENTH: The notification to the respondent resulted in "unsuccessful" as far as I know
I include in the Official State Gazette, single edictal board of 07/16/2020. I don't know
receive claims.

ELEVEN: On 01/20/2021, the claimant submits a document in this AEPD in
who provides a copy of a letter from the City Council that he addressed to the Court, dated
11/23/2020, in which it answers the request for a “report on the existence of the
mail sent by the claimed to the platform of the local Corporation about the
claimant” specifying the content and the number of users who had access to the
Documentation submitted.

On 02/10/2021, the claimant requests information on the procedure by adding
the request for “The cancellation of said information in the Hon. ***ORGANISM.1,
administration of which I am an employee and to date there is still all the
information available to the users indicated in the town hall report and in
the administration." He does not provide a copy of the document that presumes that he has requested the
aforementioned cancellation before the Town Hall.

TWELFTH: On January 28, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, considering that the content of the referred matter reported to
the preliminary proceedings is connected with the affectation to the right of the claimed to the
intimacy due to facts related to this procedure; appreciating
sufficient indications that there could be identity between the subjects, and the presumed
administrative infraction that motivated the initiation of the sanctioning procedure, and the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/21

subjects and the subject matter of the Preliminary Proceedings initiated, agreed to suspend
of this procedure.

THIRTEENTH: Dated July 12, 2021, has entry in this Agency
writ from Investigating Court 1 of ***LOCALITY.1, preliminary proceedings
SSSS/2019, and signed on June 29, 2021, in which it reports that the resolution
relapse is firm. Accompanying the order TTT / 2021 of 06/7/2021 that resolves the appeal
in the Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.2 in which it is indicated they were instructed
proceedings against the defendant for the alleged crime of coercion and discovery and
revelation of secrets, and, on January 5, 2021, the dismissal was agreed
provisional of what has been done.

An appeal was filed by the reform claimant, dismissed by order of 11
January 2021, admitting the subsidiary appeal.

The order states in the first legal basis that: "the appellant understands that the
claimed disclosed personal information about you indiscriminately in the
***ORGANISM.1 in which he works, which has caused him damage (...).”

In the SECOND legal foundation it is indicated: “the appeal cannot prosper and
This is due to the correct arguments that are given by the instructor both in the order of
dismissal as the one that resolves the appeal for reform.

The Chamber starts that the accusation has been circumscribed, and this is stated by the
accusation in his appeal for reform, to the crime of discovery and disclosure of
secrets, thus abandoning the other behaviors that from the beginning of the
procedure were imputed to the defendant…”

“The respondent did not reveal that the complainant was in bankruptcy proceedings or
disclosed it, but as bankruptcy administrator addressed the payer of the
claimant, the City Council, so that he knew the limitations to the availability
that the claimant had due to the contest, in addition to requesting the information that the claimant
bankrupt did not facilitate (statement of the investigated).

On the other hand, he shares the Court's assessment of the trial judge in the sense
that the bankruptcy situation cannot be classified as secret.

Precisely one of the consequences of the bankruptcy declaration is the
necessary publicity for the call to the procedure of the creditors and for that reason
produced and is produced in accordance with articles 21.1.5 and 23 of the Bankruptcy Law, the
publication in the BOE of an extract containing the identification of the bankrupt, the
patrimonial regime in which their faculties remain, the competent court, etc.

When this information has been published in the BOE, it is clear that it is not a secret
On the other hand, there is evidence that the challenge of the defendant has been attempted and must be in
that area in which, in your case, your performance is analyzed, since it does not exist in this
criminal jurisdiction any indication of the commission of a crime”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/21

FOURTEENTH: On July 19, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection agrees to lift the suspension of this procedure
sanctioning party, notifying the defendant of this Agreement.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The claimant renders services in the ***ORGANISM.1.

SECOND: The claimant pleaded, by order of ***DATE.5, of the Court of 1st
instance, no. 3 of ***LOCALITY.1, in voluntary bankruptcy proceeding
XXX/2019, and in an edict of ***DATE.6 the person claimed is designated as administrator
insolvency practitioner, including, among others, your email address: ***EMAIL.2. Initially it
declared that he retained the powers of administration and disposition of his assets.
but subject to the intervention of the bankruptcy administration, although
order of ***DATE.4 of the same Court, the scope of the condition of the
bankrupt in the sense that:

“It is suspended in its powers of administration and disposition over its
heritage, the exercise of these being subject to the intervention of the
bankruptcy administrators by authorization or consent until the conclusion
of the contest", it also omits that it was missing that "the liquidation phase opens".

THIRD: The ***BODY.1 informed the claimant and she contributed in her claim-
tion, a letter from the City Council, in which it is appreciated that it receives, on September 12,
December 2019, at the email address domain ***ORGANISMO.1, a co-
electronic address of origin ***EMAIL.2 to the addresses of personal@, hacienda-
da@, treasury@ and mailboxcitizen@ with five attachments.

In the matter there is "bankruptcy creditors" name and surname of the claimant, category
labor registry, social security number, NIF and other jobs of the aforementioned addresses.
, identifying himself as the insolvency administrator and is informed that "he has suspension
given the faculties of administration and management of its patrimony, corresponding to the
exclusive exercise to the insolvency administrator appointed by the court and must all
immediately take the necessary measures to prevent the bankrupt from receiving
on account of their salary payments or any other rights they have in that
City Hall any amount or economic, commercial, financial patrimonial right
certain, or commercial, without the express request of this bankruptcy administration. I communicated them
The only thing is that, for the official purposes of the judicial procedure, we will present this same
written by the SARA electronic network”, attaching as associated documents in the
mail:

a-declaration of insolvency and modification documents.

b- credential of the insolvency administrator of the court of instruction of June 20,
2019.

c- BOE publication.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/21

d- Publication of the Public Bankruptcy Registry (RPC).

FOURTH: Similar document, signed on September 12, 2019, in the electronic office
of the ***ORGANISM.1 addressed to the Mayor, was presented by the respondent, “as con-
continuation to today's email” explaining the facts, and including the data of the
claimant In the letter, he informs him of the account where the payment must continue to be made.
payment of wages, and that if they carry out embargoes or withholdings they suspend them, communicate
reporting these circumstances to the bankruptcy administration or to the Court of ***LOCALI-
DAD.1. There is no legal reference in the document that covers addressing said ad-
ministry and communicate the aforementioned situation.

FIFTH: The claimant appeared before the lawyer of the administration of Justice of the
Court of First Instance 3 of ***LOCATION.1 on ***DATE.8, to put in your
awareness of the dissemination to non-interested parties of the bidding process, affecting their
privacy. He also reported the facts to the police on ***DATE.1.

SIXTH: The Investigating Court 1 of ***LOCALITY.1, informs that the resolution
relapse is firm; accompanying the order TTT/2021 of June 7, 2021, which resolves
the appeal in the Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.2 in which it is indicated that
instructed proceedings against the defendant for the alleged crime of coercion and
discovery and disclosure of secrets, and, dated January 5, 2021, it was agreed
provisional dismissal of the proceedings.

An appeal was filed by the reform claimant, dismissed by order of 11
January 2021, admitting the subsidiary appeal.

The order states in the first legal basis that: "the appellant understands that the
claimed disclosed personal information about you indiscriminately in the
***ORGANISM.1 in which he works, which has caused him damage (...).”

In the SECOND legal foundation it is indicated: “the appeal cannot prosper and
This is due to the correct arguments that are given by the instructor both in the order of
dismissal as the one that resolves the appeal for reform.

The Chamber starts that the accusation has been circumscribed, and this is stated by the
accusation in his appeal for reform, to the crime of discovery and disclosure of
secrets, thus abandoning the other behaviors that from the beginning of the
procedure were imputed to the defendant…”

“The respondent did not reveal that the complainant was in bankruptcy proceedings or
disclosed it, but as bankruptcy administrator addressed the payer of the
claimant, the City Council, so that he knew the limitations to the availability
that the claimant had due to the contest, in addition to requesting the information that the claimant
bankrupt did not facilitate (statement of the investigated).

On the other hand, he shares the Court's assessment of the trial judge in the sense
that the bankruptcy situation cannot be classified as secret.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/21

Precisely one of the consequences of the bankruptcy declaration is the
necessary publicity for the call to the procedure of the creditors and for that reason
produced and is produced in accordance with articles 21.1.5 and 23 of the Bankruptcy Law, the
publication in the BOE of an extract containing the identification of the bankrupt, the
patrimonial regime in which their faculties remain, the competent court, etc.

When this information has been published in the BOE, it is clear that it is not a secret
On the other hand, there is evidence that the challenge of the defendant has been attempted and must be in
that area in which, in your case, your performance is analyzed, since it does not exist in this
criminal jurisdiction any indication of the commission of a crime.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each Authori-
Control Authority, and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: «The procedures processed by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency shall be governed by the provisions of the Regulations
to (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions
dictated in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, on a subsidiary basis, by
the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The facts consisting of communication by transmission to
third parties of the claimant's data, associated with their status as an incursed person
in a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding. They are considered as third parties, the
public employees and officials who work and manage input writings of the
City Council through the electronic headquarters, in the areas to which the
emails dated September 12, 2019 (Treasury, Treasury, head of
personal, citizen mailbox).

The RGPD indicates in its article 4.2 that it is data processing:

“any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Although the insolvency administrator may process the data of the natural person to whom
management of the contest is entrusted, it must be carried out within the framework of the functions
attributed in the bankruptcy law, and respecting the principles that govern the matter of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/21

Data Protection.

It must refer to the regulations in force at the time of the events, Law
22/2003, of July 9, bankruptcy (hereinafter LC), repealed, almost in its entirety
Except for some articles, by the sole transitory provision 1 of the Royal Decree
Legislative number 1/2020, of May 5, Consolidated Text of the Bankruptcy Law BOE, 7
May 2020.

The specific regime granted to the Public Bankruptcy Registry (hereinafter
RPC), which is contained in the Bankruptcy Law, allows establishing that through the same
the registration advertising contained therein, only refers to the appropriate data and
necessary to prove the legal-procedural status of the person declared in
contest, which entails, consequently. be aware of your situation
patrimonial, guaranteeing the identity of purposes between the collection of the data and its
possible disclosure to third parties that imposes on whoever accesses said registry the obligation
that its claim to know can only have as its object, the legal situation
specifically for the purposes described.

The RPC is an organized set of data that ultimately refers to
people, and therefore, a database subject to the fundamental right to
Data Protection.

The RPC establishes nothing about the need to express any interest and less
qualified to access their seats, so much so, that their access is spoken of without further
and free of charge.

The personal data included in the RPC may only be used, and this is
extends to its possible assignments to third parties, that is, to its accessibility to third parties,
fully subject to the purposes that justify the existence of the institution
registry, which is to publicize the information of bankruptcy resolutions
referred to the debtor, and that its purpose is determined, explicit and legitimate.

The mandatory RPC assumes that the data entered does not depend on the
voluntariness of the bankrupt, then his consent has not been lacking.

In other words, the joint application of the Bankruptcy and Data Protection Law establishes
the regime in the transfer of data to third parties and that presupposes knowing; that these data
for the interested party enter the RPC and can be disclosed to third parties through
said database; and that this revelation seeks to achieve the same ends as
justified their collection, and that correspond to those of the institution
registration, being subject to the transfer of data to third parties limited to the content itself
of the RPC.

But it is that, in addition, the RPC intends to attend to the judgment of proportionality of the
effective publicity of the data, since these data turn out to be adequate, pertinent and
not excessive in relation to the scope and purposes pursued with obtaining them.
Then, certainly, article 23 of the bankruptcy law established:

"1. The publicity of the declaration of insolvency, as well as of the rest
notifications, communications and procedures of the procedure, it will be carried out

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/14

preferably by telematic, computerized and electronic means, in the way that
determined by regulation, guaranteeing the security and integrity of the
communications.

The extract from the declaration of insolvency will be published, with the utmost urgency and
free of charge, in the "Official State Gazette", and will contain only the data
essential for the identification of the bankrupt, including its Number of
Fiscal Identification, the competent court, the number of cars and the Number of
General identification of the procedure, the date of the declaration of insolvency order,
the term established for the communication of the credits, the identity of the
bankruptcy administrators, the postal address and the electronic address indicated
so that the creditors, at their choice, carry out the communication of credits of
in accordance with article 85, the system of suspension or intervention of faculties
of the bankrupt and the electronic address of the Public Bankruptcy Registry where the
they will publish the resolutions that bring cause of the contest.

2. In the same insolvency declaration order or in a subsequent resolution, the
judge, ex officio or at the request of the interested party, may agree on any publicity
that it considers essential for the effective dissemination of the acts of the
contest.

3. The transfer of the offices with the edicts will be carried out preferably by

telematics from the court to the corresponding advertising media.

Exceptionally, and if the provisions of the preceding paragraph were not possible, the
official letters with the edicts will be delivered to the solicitor of the contest applicant,
who must send them immediately to the corresponding advertising media.

If the applicant for the contest was a public Administration that acted
represented and defended by its legal services, the transfer of the official letter will be carried out
directly by the Court Clerk to the advertising media.

4. The other resolutions that, in accordance with this Law, must be published by
means of edicts, they will be in the Public Bankruptcy Registry and on the bulletin board
of the court.

5. The declaration of bankruptcy, as well as the rest of the resolutions
insolvency proceedings that, in accordance with the provisions of this Law, must be subject to
publicity, will be inserted in the Public Bankruptcy Registry in accordance with the procedure
that is established by law.

And article 24:

"1. If the debtor is a natural person, they will preferably be registered, for
telematic means, in the Civil Registry the declaration of insolvency, with indication of
its date, the intervention or, where appropriate, the suspension of its powers of
administration and disposition, as well as the appointment of administrators
bankruptcy…

4. If the debtor has assets or rights registered in public registries,
they will register in the folio corresponding to each one of them the declaration of insolvency,
indicating its date, the intervention or, where appropriate, the suspension of its
powers of administration and disposition, as well as the appointment of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/21

bankruptcy administrators.

Practiced the preventive annotation or the inscription will not be able to be annotated with respect to
of those assets or rights plus embargoes or seizures subsequent to the
declaration of insolvency than those agreed by the judge thereof, except as established in
article 55.1.

5. The seats referred to in the previous sections will be made in
by virtue of a warrant issued by the court clerk. In the commandment
will state whether the corresponding resolution is firm or not. In any case, the
preventive annotations that must be extended in the public registries of persons
or assets due to lack of finality of the resolution will expire four years from the
date of the entry itself and will be canceled ex officio or at the request of any
interested. The court clerk may order the extension thereof for four
More years.

6. The transfer of the necessary documentation for the practice of the seats
It will preferably be carried out electronically from the court to the records
corresponding.
Exceptionally, and if the provisions of the preceding paragraph were not possible, the trades
with the edicts will be delivered to the solicitor of the contest applicant, with the
commandments necessary for the immediate practice of registration entries
provided in this article.
If the applicant for the contest was a public Administration that acted
represented and defended by its legal services, the ex officio transfer will be carried out
directly by the court to the corresponding records.

7. Coordination mechanisms may be established by regulation
between the various public registries in which, in accordance with the provisions of the
previous sections, the auto de declaration and the other
contest vicissitudes.

The preamble of Royal Decree 892/2013 of November 15, which regulates the RPC
indicates "The publicity of insolvency proceedings is a necessary consequence
of the universal nature of the effects of bankruptcy, which requires that the
knowledge of your declaration and the details of its processing reaches everyone
possible interested parties” That is why Law 22/2003, of 9/07, bankruptcy, has
paid special attention to advertising the creditors' meeting, which must
allow these to know not only the existence of a competition that affects them, but also
also that of all the resolutions that are approved throughout the bankruptcy process
and the annotations that must be made in the legal public registries of
people and goods.

Thus, in the data processing scenario, on the one hand, there is the data of the
RPC, on the other, the actions of the judge who manages the voluntary competition, one of
them is the designation of the insolvency administrator, deriving the present
procedure for the facts derived from the use of data made by this person in the
within the procedure, which is framed in functions and competences
established in the rule that regulates the contest.

 III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/21

In this case, the Judge decided, in contrast to the general rule in the event of voluntary bankruptcy
(which is that the debtor will retain the powers of administration and disposal over
their patrimony, being subject to the exercise of these to the intervention of the
bankruptcy administrators, through their authorization or consent, art. 40.1 CL)
that, in this specific case, the exercise by the debtor of the powers
of administration and disposition on its patrimony, being replaced by the
bankruptcy administrators, art. 40.2 CL.

That is, in the present case, the powers of administration and disposition of the
bankrupt debtor on his assets are suspended, not merely
intervened, being therefore the insolvency administrator who decides during the duration of the
suspension as the powers of administration and disposition must be exercised
about your heritage. Therefore, the administrator in the exercise of said powers
of administration, as if it were the debtor himself, can adopt the decisions that
deems appropriate in favor of the contest (art. 43 LC) subject only to
supervision by the contest judge (art. 35.4 LC). These powers of
suspension refer of course to the powers of administration and disposition
on rights and obligations that must be included in the competition (art. 40.6 LC).

On the other hand, the LC shows that in this specific case the administrators
bankruptcy do not have an exhaustive list of powers that can or should carry out
but its powers are described in the law by open wording.
Thus, in art. 40.2 LC corresponds to the bankruptcy administration to “replace” the
powers of administration and disposition of crude over its assets. I don't know
establishes a closed list of faculties, which is expressly confirmed
by art. 33.1.b).12º LC (which refers to the necessary contest but which is applicable
in this case since the judge inverted the general rule and began to consider that the
debtor instead of having his powers of administration and disposition intervened,
these should become suspended, and therefore, replaced by the administrator
bankruptcy) since when referring to the expression "in particular", said powers that
established in said 12th section cannot be considered exhaustive but
merely illustrative or by way of example, corresponding therefore to the
bankruptcy administrator (not the debtor -art. 44.3 LC) all those faculties
necessary to continue the professional or business activity of the debtor
insolvent (art. 44.3 LC), which is not interrupted (art. 44.1 LC). must be valued
also, that by way of example, it would even be possible to request that the salary be
deposited by the employer -in this case the City Council- into an account other than the
of the debtor thus depriving him of said income if the administrator so decides
bankruptcy in exercise of its powers of substitution (which it has not done) with the
sole limit of obtaining alimony by the bankrupt -if he were in a situation
of need, and as long as there are enough goods in the workforce to meet
their needs- (art. 47.1 LC), food that the bankrupt, in this case of
suspension, you must request the judge (art. 47.1, second paragraph LC).
Through publication in the BOE (for this specific case in the BOE of June 29
of 2019) of the bankruptcy situation, specifically, of the voluntary bankruptcy of the debtor
bankrupt, it is also presumed for the Employer City Council that it has had
knowledge of this, without the action of the bankruptcy administration adding anything to
said advertising.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

17/21

The claimant informs the police, the court and the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The Agency initiated sanctioning proceedings against the insolvency administrator for the
processing of the claimant's data infringing the principle of legality and fairness, and
may have violated article 5.1.a) of the RGPD.

Upon learning that the same facts were being prosecuted in court, he
proceeded to suspend this sanctioning procedure.

Article 31.1 of Law 40/2015, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (RJSP)
which establishes: “Acts that have been criminal or
administratively, in cases where the identity of the subject, fact and
basis"

The non bis in idem principle is a constitutionalized principle and included
indirectly in article 25 of our Constitution. It constitutes a manifestation
of the principle of legality and is related to the effect of res judicata.

The non bis in idem principle is a guarantee principle of rights that prohibits the
duplication of sanctions, that is, it prevents the same act from being sanctioned twice
times when there is identity of subject, fact and legal basis. It prevents, therefore,
that a person be punished twice for the same acts, for example, in the
administrative and criminal jurisdiction.

Although this is not a principle explicitly included in our
Constitution of 1978, from the first moments of life of the Magna Carta, the
doctrine of the Constitutional Court enshrined the formulation of the principle. Specific,
in its judgment 21/1981 of January 30, in which it declared its validity in the
field of criminal law, proclaiming that it was a principle
constitutionalized for understanding that it was implicit in the principle of legality
contained in article 25 of the Constitution, which prevents a simultaneous typification
of the same behavior, but with different sanctioning effects.

This principle requires the concurrence of two requirements for its application. For
hand, a triple identity of subject, fact and legal basis. Secondly,
the absence of a special relationship of subjection between the offending subject and the
Public Administration in relation to the infringing act, because otherwise, if there is
this special relationship, a compatibility of sanctions could be justified
administrative and criminal.

Traditionally, the principle can be analyzed from two perspectives: one from
material or substantive character, according to which it is prevented from imposing a double
punishment for the same act and basis (prohibition of multiple punishment) and, the other,
of procedural order, through which it is prohibited to submit to more than one process a
same subject for the same facts and grounds, after a final judicial decision,
Whether or not it is condemnatory, it is the negative effect of res judicata (prohibition of judgment).
multiple lie).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/21

The interpretive work carried out by the Constitutional Court has been significant
not only to give constitutional support to the principle, but has also contributed
buido in its dogmatic construction. Said Court has indicated that the non bis in
idem is implicit in various constitutional provisions. Also, it has
argued that it is an essential principle of any democratic system, which
assumes that no one can be tried and/or punished twice for the same act,
constituting a double restriction for the sentencer, on the one hand, one of character
procedural and, on the other, of a material or substantive nature. In addition, he specified that
for its concurrence, a coincidence of subjects, facts and foundations will be necessary.
unto

Regarding its constitutional basis, the Constitutional Court states that “[…]
derives from personal dignity and respect for the essential rights that emanate from
human nature, a quality that is universally recognized. his transgression
constitutes, therefore, an abuse of the bases of the institutional framework, as well as of the
guarantees of a rational and fair procedure and investigation, enshrined in the
chapter on equal protection of the law in the exercise of rights.

Regarding the constitutional provisions that support the non bis in idem, the Tri-
bunal indicates that it would be implicit in the principles of legality and typicity, since
that these establish the limits that must be observed by the administrative authorities
in the exercise of jus puniendi. Likewise, it would be strictly linked to the
principle of proportionality, since it demands the establishment and rational application
tional sanctioning measures, proscribing their duplicity.

In short, the principle has broad constitutional recognition, although
with an implicit and indirect character elaborated from the interpretation of diverse
provisions contained in our Fundamental Charter and in international treaties
those who consecrate it. In this way, the requirement imposed by the Court is fulfilled.
Constitutional in order that it is one of those constitutional principles
of the criminal order that can be extrapolated to the sanctioning administrative sphere,

As for its foundation, it would be closely linked to the principles of legality.
character and typicity, prohibiting someone from being sentenced twice for the same
mo fact and legal basis. It is a principle that seeks to limit the ius pu-
niendi of the State, even reaching the point of constituting, for some, a general principle of
Law (applicable to various areas) of an essential nature, which seeks to protect the dignity
human ity. In addition, the legal system must give each one what they provide.
tionally corresponds to it, so that a multiplicity of procedures and sanctions
tions would affect the idea of “justice” pursued by the Law. In this way, it is
a principle that, both for the criminal and sanctioning administrative spheres, presents
the same content and characteristics, having an application as a general rule in
the latter legal system.

When there is identity of the subject: if it is a natural person, there are no greater
complexities since it is required that it be the same natural person (convicted or acquitted)
loose); regardless of the form (individual or joint and several) and the title of guilt.
used against her (fraud, negligence, breach of a duty of care, among
others).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/21

Regarding the objective Identity, in fact, or factual: the effective configuration matters
or practice of an action or omission capable of being pigeonholed in a description
typical law. Indeed, not every fact or omission will constitute an illegal act, only
those that import a condition to interests and legal assets of special importance
stay for the law. The possibility that the same fact can give rise to discrepancies
inks infractions with various procedures, the authority empowered to resolve the
particular case should pay special attention to the relationship between these
facts and the legal goods that are sought to protect, from which it will be able to determine
determine if there is indeed an affectation at the beginning and, where appropriate, at the beginning
of proportionality.

Finally: identity of punitive basis. In simple terms, this identity seeks
ca determine whether or not the concurrent rules protect the same legal right. In general
In general, the norms do not establish in a categorical way the legal rights that
tegen, for which it will be necessary to verify if there is indeed a double
protection. Therefore, it will be again the judge or the Administration who will have
to seek, in the respective precepts, the legal right that is intended to be protected,
in such a way that, if the goods affected are heterogeneous, there will be diversity of foundations
while, if they are homogeneous, in their general statements, it will not proceed
double punishment, although the rules violated are different. Otherwise, the anti-
legality of an illegal act could be totally or partially absorbed in the respective
penalty or sanction in those cases in which there is a certain concurrence of legal interests.
despite the fact that their protection in both provisions are not identically analogous.
ga

On the other hand, it would result in the prevalence of criminal proceedings over administrative proceedings in
in the event that the facts constitute a crime and administrative infraction and in the
need, in such a case, to paralyze the sanctioning administrative procedure until
that the penalty be resolved. This rule is not really derived from the principle itself, but
constitutes an instrument to guarantee it, enjoying a solid foundation
constitutional,

v

In the alleged object of this sanctioning procedure, it is initiated at
understand that the respondent has not processed the claimant's data in accordance with the
principles collected in article 5 of the RGPD, since it sent emails to various
addresses of officials and positions of the claimant's workplace,
presenting a document on her behalf through the electronic headquarters, to
email addresses of Councilors, staff section, area of
treasury and even the citizen's mailbox, to which various officials have access
disclosing all the information of the judicial process of its voluntary contest and
requiring the City Council to adopt all the necessary measures so that the
affected does not receive any remuneration without the express request of the administration
bankruptcy.

As has been pointed out, the same facts were denounced in court. The
Provincial Court of ***LOCALIDAD.2 has ruled on the same facts
filing the proceedings and indicating that the respondent did not reveal that the complainant
was in a bankruptcy situation nor did he disclose it, but as an administrator

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/21

bankruptcy went to the payer of the claimant, the City Council, so that
knew the limitations to the availability that due to the contest had the
claimant, in addition to requesting the information that the bankrupt party did not provide
(statement of the investigated).

It adds that the bankruptcy situation cannot be classified as secret; one of the
consequences of the declaration of insolvency is the publicity necessary for the
call to the procedure of the creditors and for that reason it took place and it takes place,
in accordance with articles 21.1.5 and 23 of the Bankruptcy Law, the publication in the BOE of
an extract that contains the identification of the bankrupt, the patrimonial regime in the
that their faculties remain, the competent court, etc.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE the sanctioning procedure instructed against Don B.B.B., by
having filed the procedure in criminal proceedings for the same facts.

 SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/21

938-131120

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

