




Ban on the teacher pillory by the state data protection officer: AfD bows to the order








No.20190924
|
09/24/2019
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

The state association of the AfD has complied with the measures ordered by the state data protection officer for the "Information Portal Neutral School" in a timely manner, but is continuing to take legal action against them. For his part, the state data protection officer is examining whether further measures need to be taken against the state association of the AfD.
With the information portal “Neutral School”, the AfD state association in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania called on schoolchildren to report teachers who made negative comments about the AfD. This prompted the state data protection officer to act. "The times when a party persecuted teachers because of their political convictions are over. We must do everything we can to protect freedom of expression. In accordance with their educational mandate, teachers must, without fear of reprisals, encourage students to engage in political debate and think independently,” says State Data Protection Officer Heinz Müller.
The state data protection officer had forbidden the AfD state association to use the portal to report teachers who were critical of the AfD. The ban is based on the European General Data Protection Regulation, which has been in force since last year. This has clear rules for the processing of particularly sensitive data, which also includes political opinions. The state association of the AfD in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania did not stick to this. "In the event of illegal data processing, we must take action, as required by the General Data Protection Regulation," explains Heinz Müller.
“The case makes it clear: data protection is not just a bureaucratic monster, but protects elementary fundamental rights. This includes, in particular, the right to free personal development and freedom of expression,” concluded Heinz Müller.









                Back to overview









