Principal Information Governance Officer 
 
 
Corporate Information Governance Team 
The Council of the City of Wakefield (Wakefield Council) 
 
County Hall 
 
Bond Street 
 
Wakefield 
 
West Yorkshire WF1 2QW 
 

By email only to: infosec@wakefield.gov.uk 
 

22 September 2022 
 

Dear  

ICO Case Reference Number: INV/0113/2022  

 
I write to inform you that the ICO has now completed its investigation into the 
 
breach which was reported to the ICO by Wakefield Council (the Council) on 10 
  
March 2022. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
In summary, on 3 March 2022 the Council sent papers prepared as a Court 
 
 
bundle, in relation to Child Protection Legal Proceedings, to the parents of the 
 
child in question. The Court documents contained a Child Protection Medical 
 
Report which included the home address of the mother and her two children. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
This case has been considered under the United Kingdom General Data Protection 
Regulation (the UK GDPR) due to the nature of the processing involved. 

 

 

 

 

 
Our consideration of this case 

 
I have investigated whether the Council has complied with the requirements of 
 
the data protection legislation. 

 

 

 

 

 
In the course of my investigation, I have noted that the mother is fearful of the 
 
father due to a history of ongoing domestic violence and a break in to a previous 
 
accommodation. Therefore, the father did not and should not know the mothers 
 
home address. As a result of the breach, the mother and her children had to be 
 
 
moved into emergency alternative accommodation on the same day of the 
  
breach. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Council’s internal investigation determined that the cause of the breach was 
a failure by the Social Worker to identify that the mothers address was included 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

in the Child Protection Medical Report. The Social Worker sent the documents to 
 
the Team Manager, who subsequently sent them to the Legal department. The 
Legal department then filed the documents to all parties of the proceedings, 
 
which included the father. 
 
 
We have also considered and welcome the remedial steps taken by the Council in 
 
 
light of this incident. In particular that on 17 May 2022 the Council created a 
guide for workers which provides guidance to staff on how to use the ‘hide’ 
 
function and redact confidential addresses on the Children’s Services system. It 
is also noted that a new mandatory question was added to the system on 17 May 
 
2022 which asks Team Managers to check that confidential information has been 
redacted from forms. 
 
However, after careful consideration and based on the information provided, we 
have decided to issue the Council with a reprimand in accordance with Article 58 
 
of the UK GDPR. 
 
 
Details of reprimand 
 
 
 
The reprimand has been issued to the Council in respect of the following 
 
infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
•  Article 5 (1) (f) which states: 
 

 

 
 
“1. Personal data shall be: 
 
 
(f) processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of personal data, 
 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against 
 
accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or 
 
organisational measures (‘integrity and confidentiality).” 

 

 

 

 
•  Article 24 (1) which states: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

“1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as 
 
well as the risks of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of 
 
natural persons, the controller shall implement appropriate technical and 
 
organisational measures to ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing 
 
is performed in accordance with this Regulation. Those measures shall be 
 
reviewed and updated where necessary.” 
 
 
In particular the Council has failed to ensure an appropriate level of security of 
 
personal data, resulting in the inappropriate disclosure of personal data relating 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

to three Data Subjects. It is also noted that prior to the breach, the Council did 
 
not have any documented policies, procedures or guidance in place for Social 
 
Workers on how to prepare Court documents or redact confidential addresses on 
 
the Children’s Services system using the ‘hide’ function. 
 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
 
The Commissioner recommends that the Council could take certain steps to 
 
improve its compliance with UK GDPR. In particular: 
 

 
1.  Review and update your Data Protection training documentation to ensure 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that it refers to the UK GDPR. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2.  Review applicable policies and procedures in accordance with Article 24 of 
 
the UK GDPR, to ensure that prominent and sufficient practical guidance is 
 
provided to staff regarding the need to redact confidential information from 
 
Court documents and how to do this. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3.  Demonstrate compliance with the requirements of accountability in 

 

 

 

 

 

 
accordance with Article 5 (2) of the UK GDPR. In particular, it is advisable 
 
to monitor the compliance of staff with existing procedures or policies by 
 
regular assurance testing and auditing. Further information about 
 
accountability can be found at the following link: 
 
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-
 
general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr/accountability-and-governance/ 
 

 

 

 

 
4.  Ensure the learning from any breach report analysis is shared across the 
 
organisation, not just the departments where breaches have occurred, to 
 
embed lessons learnt from any breach incidents. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Whilst the above measures are suggestions, I would like to point out that if 
 
further information relating to this subject comes to light, or if any further 
 
incidents or complaints are reported to us, we will revisit this matter and further 
  
formal regulatory action may be considered as a result. 
 
It is also noted that the ICO carried out a data protection audit of the Council 
with its consent in 2021 and that a follow up with the Council is currently planned 
  
for November 2022. 
 
 
Further information about compliance with the data protection legislation which is 
 
relevant to this case can be found at the following link: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
https://ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/  
 
We actively publicise our regulatory activity and outcomes, as this helps us to 
 
achieve our strategic aims in upholding information rights in the public interest. 
 
We may publish information about cases reported to us, for example where we 
 
 
think there is an opportunity for other organisations to learn or where the case 
highlights a risk or novel issue. 
 
 
 
Therefore, we may publish the outcome of this investigation to publicise our 
regulatory authority and new powers under the UK GDPR. We will publish 
 
information in accordance with our Communicating Regulatory and Enforcement 
 
Activity Policy, which is available online at the following link: 
 
 
https://ico.org.uk/media/about-the-
ico/policiesandprocedures/1890/ico  enforcement  communications  policy.pdf 
  
 
 
Please let us know if you have any concerns about this. 
 
 
Thank you for your co-operation and assistance during the course of our 
investigation. 
 
 
We now consider the matter closed. 
 
 
Yours sincerely, 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
Lead Case Officer - Civil Investigations 
 
Regulatory Supervision Service 
 
The Information Commissioner’s Office 
Direct Dial: 
 
 
Please note that we are often asked for copies of the correspondence we exchange with 
third parties. We are subject to all of the laws we deal with, including the United 
 
Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act 2018 and the 
 
Freedom of Information Act 2000. You can read about these on our website 
 
(www.ico.org.uk). 
  
 
The ICO publishes basic details about the complaints, investigations and self-reported 
data breaches it handles. These details include the name of the organisation concerned, 
 
the dates that we opened and closed the case, and the outcome. Examples of published 
 
data sets can be found at this link (https://ico.org.uk/about-the-ico/our-
information/complaints-and-concerns-data-sets/). 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

We do not include personal data in the published datasets and will anonymise the names 
 
of sole traders etc prior to publication. We also do not publish cases concerning domestic 
 
 
CCTV complaints and may not publish certain other cases if we feel it is not appropriate 
to do so in the circumstances. 
  
 
If you wish to raise an objection to us publishing a case in the datasets, whether or not 
we have published it yet, please contact us explaining your reasons for this at 
icoaccessinformation@ico.org.uk . 
   
 
Please say whether you consider any of the information you send us is confidential. You 
 
should also say why so that we can take that into consideration. However, please note 
 
that we will only withhold information where there is good reason to do so. 
 
 
For information about what we do with personal data see our privacy notice at 
www.ico.org.uk/privacy-notice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

