1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00504/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 19, 2020, it had entry in this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter, the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed
on the street ***ADDRESS.1, there are indications of a possible breach of the
provided in the personal data protection regulations.

The claim is based on the claimant having installed a video camera in the
terrace of the upper floor of his house, which focuses directly on the house of the
claimant, and to the gardens and swimming pools of both his house and several neighboring houses.

Attach photographic report of the location of the cameras.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

THIRD: On December 18, 2020, a reply is received from the claimant
indicating that the video surveillance installation was carried out by the company Prosegur,
providing a copy of the installation contract.

Attach photographs of the capture made by the interior cameras of your home.

It also attaches another photograph of the capture of the exterior camera, where it appears
its swimming pool, the gardens of the two adjoining houses on both sides, the street, throughout
its width and length its facade and that of the adjoining house, as well as the
opposite buildings.

FOURTH: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 29
December 2020.

FIFTH: On February 16, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SIXTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, it stated that "(...) being true that they are seen

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

part of two more gardens, in neither case does the camera focus directly on his house,
but it focuses on the garden of mine and because of its quality, the images so
distant, they are not sharp or clear, understanding that at no time are they
violating any rights to privacy.”

However, given that the cameras had been installed by the company Prosegur,
has contacted it to check the capture perimeter of the
video surveillance system.

SEVENTH: On April 13, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice of tests, taking for reproduced, for purposes
evidence of the claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data and allegations presented by the respondent.

EIGHTH: On April 13, 2021, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that a warning be addressed to the defendant, for an infraction of the
article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD. In this proposal,
granted a period of 10 days for the respondent to be able to allege
be considered in his defense as well as to present the documents and information that
considered pertinent, in accordance with article 89.2 of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP).

NINTH: On April 12, 2021, the respondent submitted a brief of allegations,
received by the instructor once the Resolution Proposal was sent, in which
provides a copy of the email sent by Prosegur, in which it is indicated that

“In this sense, the technical team of PROSEGUR, makes a visit in an
immediately to the address of the claimed, in order to verify the collection perimeter
of the camera, and if necessary, reorient it, so that, in no case
record images that are not the property of the claimed party. Finally, how is it
accredited in the image that is provided as evidence to this writing, the
installation is correctly carried out, complying with the regulations
in force in terms of Data Protection, since the perimeter of capturing data
images does not allow the capture of public roads, as well as homes
adjoining, preserving the right to intimacy and privacy of the
claimant.”

The defendant has provided a photograph in which the swimming pool of his home is observed
and a minimal strip of the two adjoining houses on both sides and the street.

TENTH: On June 1, 2021, the respondent submitted allegations to the
Motion for a Resolution indicating that the modifications had already been made
requests for camera reorientation.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

FACTS

FIRST: On October 19, 2020, it entered this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document that shows that the claimed party has
installed a video surveillance camera that focuses directly on the house of the
claimant, and to the gardens and swimming pools both of his house and of several neighboring houses

Attach photographic report of the location of the camera.

SECOND: The person in charge of the video surveillance system is B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1.

THIRD: The respondent has proceeded to relocate the camera.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The defendant is charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, regarding the principles of treatment, which provides that the data
Personal information will be “adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to
the purposes for which they are processed (“data minimization”)”.

III

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD, in its
art. 58.2 b) provides for the possibility of directing a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

IV

When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount, in each case
individual will take into account the aggravating and mitigating factors indicated

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

in art. 83.2 of the RGPD, as well as any other that may be applicable to the
circumstances of the case.

The infractions are typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; […]”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, those indicated in paragraph
above are considered very serious and prescribe after three years, in accordance with article
72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

[…] b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

c) Failure to comply with the requirements of Article 7 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 for the validity of consent […]”

The art. 22 section 2 of the LOPDGDD provides:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is
essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture public roads to the extent that it is
essential to guarantee the security of strategic goods or installations or of
infrastructures linked to transport, without in any case implying the
capturing images of the interior of a private home”.

Examined the file as a whole, although it is true that at the time of the start
of this sanctioning procedure the camera installed on the property of the
claimed captured images outside his property, during the period of
allegations, the respondent has stated that he has proceeded to relocate the
camera towards his private space, providing a photograph in which his
property and a minimum strip of the two adjoining houses on both sides and the
street.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

v

In accordance with the foregoing, having examined the modifications of the installed system, the
itself is considered adjusted to the right, capturing the camera the minimum essential
for their home protection work.

Full collaboration with this body is taken into account when carrying out the
precise corrections to avoid affecting the right of third parties, being the necessary ones
to preserve the security of the property and its inhabitants.

The parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake and must avoid
instrumentalize institutions in matters beyond their competence,
having to adjust the relationships between them to the minimum requirements of the
good neighbor rules

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, once the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, and taking into account
account that the relocation of the camera has occurred during the processing of the
present procedure, it is maintained to direct a warning, since during a
time the camera overrecorded areas outside his property, although it was not
require complementary measures to have been adopted.

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS A WARNING to B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for a
infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-131120

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

