
This week, the Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with HUP, Regional Office in Osijek, organized free workshops on the topic "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)?" for about a hundred micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs . The workshops held in Slavonski Brod, Vukovar, Osijek and Virovitica are part of the activities of the EU ARC project - Campaign to raise awareness of data protection for small and medium-sized enterprises, co-financed by the "Program on Rights, Equality and Citizenship" of the European Union.
"It is important that everyone who processes personal data be well informed about their obligations, coordinate their operations and thus avoid situations in which they may find themselves in the role of violators of the General Data Protection Regulation. Our wish is to make it easier for small, micro and medium-sized entrepreneurs to apply the Regulation and to prevent possible sanctions that would occur due to non-compliance with it, therefore the Agency helps in this with these kinds of activities," said director Vukić during his welcoming speech and wished all participants good luck in their future work. .
Agency officials introduced the workshop attendees to the key terms and provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, given that entrepreneurs are often not familiar with basic terms and do not know who is the data controller and who is the processor. Therefore, in order to properly process personal data as data controllers, entrepreneurs had the opportunity to learn what are the legal bases for processing personal data and why consent is not required for each processing, which is often applied when it is not required.
The workshop also discussed the processing of personal data through the video surveillance system, popular cookies, but also the technical and organizational measures that need to be taken. Namely, all data processors who dispose of the personal data of individuals, including craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (Articles 24, 25 and 35), are obliged to take all appropriate technical and organizational measures measures in order to adequately protect the personal data of their employees, users, clients, in short individuals, and reduce the risk of personal data violations and abuse to a minimum. However, if there is a breach of personal data, the entrepreneurs learned how to proceed at the workshop.
These workshops are a continuation of the activities within the European project ARC, in which trainings have been held for over 5,000 entrepreneurs and data protection officers, manuals and guidelines have been created, as well as a website with interactive materials and tools to help with compliance with the Regulation. Considering that craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, unlike large ones, usually do not have enough financial and human resources necessary to comply with data protection regulations, the Agency provides full support in order to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation . You can find more about the project, as well as educational materials, here.










Slavonski Brod







Slavonski Brod_2







Vukovar







Osijek







Osijek_Director of the Agency Zdravko Vukić







Osijek_Director of Regional Center Osijek HUP Ivan Sarić







Osijek_ARC







Virovitica







Virovitica_2







Virovitica_3







Vukovar-ARC workshop







Vukovar - Arc workshop


