
Brussels, January 18 - European Commission Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders participated in the plenary session. He presented to the Committee the draft Decision on the Adequacy of the Data Protection Framework between the EU and the USA and exchanged opinions with its members. The committee is currently working on its opinion on the draft decision, which will be finalized in the coming weeks.
The European Data Protection Board has adopted a report on the findings of its first coordinated enforcement measure, which focused on the use of cloud services in the public sector. The European Data Protection Board emphasizes the need for public authorities to act in full compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation and includes recommendations for the public sector when using cloud products or services. In addition, a list of measures already taken by data protection authorities in the field of cloud computing is available.
Andrea Jelinek, President of the European Data Protection Board, said: “The Coordinated Enforcement Framework (CEF) calls for deeper methods of cooperation between data protection authorities to achieve better efficiency and consistency. Across Europe, public sector organizations are turning to cloud computing services and facing difficulties in obtaining GDPR-compliant services and products. Personal data processed by public services must be handled with the utmost care, especially when processed by a third party. The European Data Protection Board's CEF 2022 report provides a useful benchmark for this and I believe it will become an important reference point for public bodies involved in procuring GDPR-compliant cloud services.”
During 2022, 22 data protection authorities across the EEA (including the EDPS) launched coordinated investigations into the use of cloud services in the public sector.
Across the EEA, including the European institutions, a total of around 100 public bodies covering a wide range of sectors (such as health, finance, tax, education, customers and IT service providers) are covered.
The CEF is a key measure of the European Data Protection Board as part of its strategy for the period 2021-2023, which aims to simplify implementation and cooperation between supervisory authorities. The operation of the CEF in 2023 will refer to the appointment and role of the Data Protection Officer (DPO).
In addition, the European Data Protection Board adopted a report on the work of the working group on the design of cookies acceptance/rejection banners (pop-up windows), which was established in September 2021 to coordinate responses to complaints made by the NGO NOYB to several bodies for data protection from the EEA. The working group sought to promote cooperation, information sharing and best practices among data protection authorities, which was essential to ensure consistent access to cookie banners across the EEA. In the report, data protection authorities agreed on a common denominator in their interpretation of the applicable provisions of the ePrivacy Directive and the General Data Protection Regulation on issues such as opt-out buttons, pre-ticked fields, banner design or opt-out icons.
