THE STATE OFFICER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 April 30, 2021

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 LfDI opens Mastodon instance for public bodies

Public bodies can now access the Mastodon instance

the state commissioner for data protection and information

set up your own account. With that opened

the state commissioner a possibility for the data protection

compliant and digital direct communication with citizens

and citizens. On the bawu.social instance, the LfDI

own server and the account @LfDI@bawu.social

at https://bawu.social/@lfdi.

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: "Public authorities are still struggling

to offer privacy-compliant solutions for citizens

th. With the opening of our Mastodon instance, we offer public

public offices in Baden-Württemberg now a possibility

for data protection-compliant and digital communication.

We will continue to do our utmost to promote

Provision of urgently needed data protection-compliant offers

use for public bodies.”

 

In addition to ministries and local governments can also

other public bodies such as universities, chambers of commerce

 

- 2 -

and others set up an account. For private individuals

the instance cannot be opened. You can

count at one of the many other public masto

create don instances. It is also possible without registration

to read on Mastodon news on the platform -

either directly in the browser or as an RSS feed. The link to

RSS feed from the LfDI account reads:

https://bawu.social/@lfdi.rss

 

Digital communication is taken for granted today, says

Brink. “Citizens want to communicate digitally.

We want that too. Data protection and digitization belong

and work together. Citizens must

do not use your personal data for advertising purposes

hand it in if they want to use social media.”

 

The first public bodies have already set up an account

directs; the opening of the instance is currently in the pipeline

solder phase. Interested public bodies can contact

State officials report when they are on the instance

https://bawu.social want to set up your own account.

 

Further information

LfDI Stefan Brink has been running his own for almost 5 months

Social media instance on Mastodon. The account of the LfDI is

available at https://bawu.social/@lfdi.

 

The microblogging platform Mastodon is a privacy

friendly, decentralized and distributed alternative to Twitter.

Short messages that are called “tweets” on Twitter are called on

Mastodon "Toots" (German: "Tröts"). The maximum length of

a message is 500 characters. Pictures and videos can

also be shown here. You can use other users with

address it directly with an @ sign and use hashtags (#) to

keep tagged. The platform is decentralized –

basically like an e-mail service: anyone can create their own

operate an instance or join an existing instance

 

- 3 -

shut down. Communication is beyond the borders of

punching possible.

 

The Mastodon info page features selected instances,

many more can be found e.g. B. in this Mastodon instance-

List. There it is also possible e.g. B. after German-speaking

Search or otherwise filter instances.

 

The use of social networks offers numerous data

protection challenges. After a judgment of

European Court of Justice are, for example, authorities that

have a social media page, together with the provider

responsible for the processing of personal data

literally. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and the

Freedom of information Baden-Württemberg (LfDI) has therefore in

January 2020 deleted his Twitter account.

 

 

