1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00242/2021

RESOLUTION
 

 OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTARY

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against Vodafone
Services, S.L.U. with NIF B87539284, S.L.U. with NIF B87539284 that below
is transcribed:

<<Procedure no.: PS/00242/2021

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant party) dated February 8,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against Vodafone Servicios, S.L.U. with NIF B87539284 (in
hereafter, the party claimed).

The claimant states that she has been receiving notices of availability of
bills and charges in your bank account in payment for some Vodafone services whose
Ownership belongs to a third party. Likewise, the claimant states that she has been
receiving calls from the collection entity Bureau Veritas, requesting
the payment of a debt generated by the return of the receipts loaded in your
bank account and that belong to the services registered with Vodafone and not
recognized by the claimant.

Provide the following documentation:

- Claim made before the respondent on November 17, 2020 and
burofax dated February 3, 2021.

-Invoices issued by the claimed party from June 8, 2020 to June 9
January 2021 for two mobile lines and fees for two terminals.

- Screen print of the application of your banking entity that reflects the transfer of
the said invoices. As well as their return.

- Complaint filed with the National Police station in Cádiz dated
October 20, 2020 for the aforementioned events.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed party on March 9, 2021, in accordance with the
established in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter,
LOPDGDD), in the actions with reference E/02727/2021. The notification is
performed electronically, and is delivered on March 15, 2021.

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 65.2 of the Organic Law
3/2018, on Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), in
On May 17, 2021, the agreement for admission to processing of the application was signed.
claim.

FOURTH: When transferring the claim to the claimed party, he/she submitted a written document on the 25th
June 2021, stating that it proceeded to investigate the reported facts and
declared the claimed incident as fraudulent, finding, at present,
canceled the debt and having adopted security measures the ID of the party
claimant to prevent further invoices and claims for payment from being generated
of debt in the name of the claimant.

On the other hand, they state that they have proceeded to send a letter to the claimant
informing you about the steps taken and apologize for the facts
facts. Attach as document number 1, a copy of the letter sent to the party
claimant.

They add that they have been able to verify that there is no customer ID in the systems
of Vodafone under the ownership of the complaining party or linked to its N.I.F. No
However, they have been able to verify that your bank account and email
were included in the contracts formalized on May 27 and 29, 2020 by
a third Vodafone customer and in the customer ID regenerated as a result of the
execution of the same. Both contracts are attached as document number 2, as well
as the purchase summary.

On the other hand, they state that they have blocked the affected client ID. Also, it has
removed the email address of the complaining party as the email address
contact of said customer ID and have deleted your bank details. In this sense it has
replaced in the affected client ID the payment by direct debit for the payment by
transfer in order to assure the claimant that she cannot receive any charges in
the future in your bank account or any notification of notice of invoices. By last,
has proceeded to cancel the debt claimed from the claimant and has
verified that the claimant is not registered in any solvency file
negative equity.

They provide as document number 3, the security measures applied by the
claimed, being its last modification carried out on November 21, 2019.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

The exposed facts may imply, on the part of the claimed party, the
Commission of an infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD that establishes the assumptions that
allow the processing of personal data to be considered lawful.

Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the

assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

                 "one. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
terms:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"one. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it carried out the treatment of the
personal data of the complaining party without having any legitimacy to
it.

 The personal data of the complaining party were incorporated into the systems
information of the company, without proving that it had contracted
legitimately, had legitimacy for the collection and subsequent treatment of
your personal data, or there is any other cause that makes the treatment lawful
effected.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, it remains in
questioned the diligence used by the respondent to identify the
person who made the contract on behalf of the complaining party.

Well, it is accredited as recognized by the defendant in his
written response to this Agency dated June 25, 2021, which was produced
fraudulent hiring.

It has been verified that the contracts formalized on the dates 27 and 29
of May 2020, in the billing data section, the data of the
claimant party, that is: DNI, name, surnames, email and your account
banking. However, they are not signed.

Thus, the respondent did not verify the identity of the alleged contracting party,

took the necessary precautions so that these events did not occur.

According to the evidence currently available
procedural and without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the procedure, it is estimated
that the conduct of the complained party could violate article 6.1 of the RGPD
being able to constitute the infraction typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned
Regulation 2016/679.

   In short, the respondent has not provided a document or evidence
one that shows that the entity, in such a situation, would have deployed the
minimum diligence required to verify that your interlocutor was indeed the one
claimed to hold

 Respect for the principle of legality that is in the essence of the fundamental right
of protection of personal data requires that it be accredited that the
responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that
extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

         “(40) For the processing to be lawful, the personal data must be processed
with the consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established
in accordance with Law, either in these Regulations or by virtue of another Law
of the Union or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation,
including the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the person responsible for the
treatment or the need to execute a contract in which the interested party is a party or
in order to take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the
conclusion of a contract.”

III

The determination of the sanction to be imposed in this case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the RGPD, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:

"one. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to pa-

allocate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the

infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
cular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infraction and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to
the same matter, compliance with said measures;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

j) adherence to codes of conduct under Article 40 or to certification mechanisms

fication approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, direct or indirect.
straight, through the infraction.”

  Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled
“Sanctions and corrective measures”:

"one. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are disputes between them and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate,
of the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose on the claimed entity as responsible for an infraction typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD, in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

As mitigating factors:

- Immediately proceeded to cancel the debt and block the customer ID

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

affected, delete the email of the complaining party as address of
contact of said customer ID and deleted their bank details (article 83.2.c,
GDPR).

As aggravating factors:

-

-

That the facts object of the claim are attributable to a lack of diligence
of the claimed party (article 83.2.b, RGPD).

The evident link between the business activity of the respondent and the
processing of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
RGPD in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD)

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the claimed party and set it at the amount of

€50,000 for the infringement of article 83.5 a) RGPD and 72.1b) of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the

Spanish Data Protection Agency.

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START A PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SERVICIOS,
S.L.U. with NIF B87539284, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1) typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT D. B.B.B. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be for the violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, the corresponding sanction would be a
fine for an amount of 50,000 euros (fifty thousand euros) without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A80907397 granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% for the sanction to be imposed
in this proceeding, equivalent in this case to ten thousand euros (€10,000).
With the application of this reduction, the amount of the sanction would be established in
forty thousand euros (€40,000), resolving the procedure with the imposition of
this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction,
in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a
reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to ten thousand
euros (€10,000), for the imputed infraction. With the application of this reduction, the
The amount of the sanction would be established at forty thousand euros (€40,000) and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure.
The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at thirty thousand euros (€30,000).
In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.
In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, 40,000 euros or 30,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears
in the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
is welcomed.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency>>

SECOND: It is stated that the Start Agreement was notified on September 13, 2021,
proceeded on September 30, 2021 to pay the penalties in the amount of
40,000 euros making use of the reduction provided for in the Start Agreement,
stating: “That Vodafone has ordered the payment of €40,000 corresponding to the
initially foreseen infraction, less 20% for the reduction of the amount when paying
in the voluntary period and in this act desists and waives any action or resource
in administrative proceedings in relation to this assumption of fact, in accordance with the
established in art. 85 of the LPACAP”.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Home Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"one. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00242/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE SERVICIOS, S.L.U.
with NIF B87539284.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD, P.O. the Deputy Director General for Data Inspection, Olga
Pérez Sanjuán, Resolution 4/10/2021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

