DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 
 

 

 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

 

 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 

To:  Simply Connecting Ltd 

 

 

 

Of:  15 Eskbank Tanhouse, Skelmersdale, England, WN8 6EQ 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to 
 
issue Simply Connecting Ltd (“SCL”) with an enforcement notice under 
 
section 40 of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The notice is being 
issued because of a serious contravention of Regulation 22 of the 
Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 
(“PECR”). 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal framework 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

SCL, whose registered office is given above (Companies House 
 
Registration Number: 12285087) is the organisation stated in this 
notice to have transmitted or instigated the transmission of unsolicited 
communications by means of electronic mail to individual subscribers 
for the purposes of direct marketing contrary to regulation 22 of PECR. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation 22 of PECR states: 

 

 

 

1 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

“(1) This regulation applies to the transmission of unsolicited 
  
 
communications by means of electronic mail to individual 
 
subscribers. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 

   

(2)  Except in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (3), a person 
 
shall neither transmit, nor instigate the transmission of, unsolicited 
 
communications for the purposes of direct marketing by means of 
 
electronic mail unless the recipient of the electronic mail has 
 
previously notified the sender that he consents for the time being 
 
 
to such communications being sent by, or at the instigation of, the 
 
 
sender. 
  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3)  A person may send or instigate the sending of electronic mail for 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the purposes of direct marketing where— 
  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) that person has obtained the contact details of the recipient 
 

 
of that electronic mail in the course of the sale or 
 
negotiations for the sale of a product or service to that 
 
recipient; 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) the direct marketing is in respect of that person’s similar 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
products and services only; and 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

(c)  the recipient has been given a simple means of refusing 
 
 

(free of charge except for the costs of the transmission of 
 
the refusal) the use of his contact details for the purposes 
 
of such direct marketing, at the time that the details were 
 
initially collected, and, where he did not initially refuse the 
 
use of the details, at the time of each subsequent 
 
communication. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(4)  A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention of 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph (2).” 
 

 

 

 

2 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
5. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

Section 122(5) of the Data Protection Act 2018 “DPA18” defines direct 
 
marketing as “the communication (by whatever means) of advertising 
 
or marketing material which is directed to particular individuals”. This 
 
definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) 
 
PECR and paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule 19 of the DPA18). 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. 
 

7. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

   
 

 
 
   
 

Consent in PECR, between 29 March 2019 and 31 December 2020, was 
 
defined by reference to the concept of consent in Regulation 2016/679 
 
(“the GDPR”): regulation 8(2) of the Data Protection, Privacy and 
 
Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 
 
2019. Article 4(11) of the GDPR sets out the following definition: 
 
“‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, specific, 
 
informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by 
 
which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, 
 
signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him 
 
 
or her”. 
  
 
From 1 January 2021, consent in PECR  has been defined by reference 
 
to the concept of consent in the UK GDPR as defined in section 3(10) of 
 
 
the DPA 2018[1]: see regulation 2(1) of PECR, as amended by Part 3 of 
 
 
Schedule 3, paragraph 44 of The Data Protection, Privacy and 
 
Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 
 
2019/419. Article 4(11) of the UK GDPR sets out the following 
 
definition: “‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, 
 
specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 
 
wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative 
 
action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating 
 
to him or her”. 
 

   
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[1] The UK GDPR is therein defined as Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
 
April 2016 (“GDPR”)  as it forms part of the  law  of England and  Wales, Scotland  and  Northern Ireland  by virtue 
 
  
of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

8. 
 

9. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
Recital 32 of the UK GDPR materially states that “When the processing 
 
has multiple purposes, consent should be given for all of them”. Recital 
 
 
42 materially provides that “For consent to be informed, the data 
 
subject should be aware at least of the identity of the controller”. 
 
Recital 43 materially states that “Consent is presumed not to be freely 
 
 
given if it does not allow separate consent to be given to different 
 
personal data processing operations despite it being appropriate in the 
 
individual case”. 
 
 
“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 
 

     
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
10.  A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 
   
 

 
a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 
 
 
communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 
 
“Electronic mail” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “any text, 
 
voice, sound or image message sent over a public electronic 
 
communications network which can be stored in the network or in the 
 
 
recipient’s terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 
 
 
includes messages sent using a short message service”. 
 

 
   
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11. 
 

 
12.  The DPA contains enforcement provisions at Part V which are 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercisable by the Commissioner. Those provisions are modified and 
 
 
extended for the purposes of PECR by Schedule 1 PECR. 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.  Section 40(1)(a) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

   

provides that if the Commissioner is satisfied that a person has 
 
contravened or is contravening any of the requirements of the 
 
Regulations, he may serve him with an Enforcement Notice requiring 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

4 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

him to take within such time as may be specified in the Notice, or to 
 
refrain from taking after such time as may be so specified, such steps 
 
as are so specified. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 
 

 
privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 
 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 
 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 
 
overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
 
rights. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The contravention 
 
 

16.  The Commissioner finds that SCL contravened regulation 22 of PECR. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18.  The Commissioner finds that between 9 December 2020 and 9 March 
 
2022 there were 441,830 direct marketing SMS messages received by 
 
subscribers. The Commissioner finds that SCL transmitted or instigated 
 
the transmission of the direct marketing messages sent, contrary to 
 
 
regulation 22 of PECR. 
 

 
 
 

   

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
19.  SCL, as the sender or instigator of the direct marketing, is required to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ensure that it is acting in compliance with the requirements of 
 
regulation 22 of PECR, and to ensure that valid consent to send those 
 
 
messages had been acquired. 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

5 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20.  The Commissioner’s direct marketing guidance says “organisations 
 
need to be aware that indirect consent will not be enough for texts, 
 
emails or automated calls. This is because the rules on electronic 
 
marketing are stricter, to reflect the more intrusive nature of electronic 
 
messages.” 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21.  However, it does go on to say that indirect consent may be valid, but 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

     
 

only if it is clear and specific enough. If categories of organisations are 
 
referred to then those categories must be tightly defined and the 
 
organisation wanting to use the consent must clearly fall within the 
 
description. Consent is not likely to be valid where an individual is 
 
presented with a long, seemingly exhaustive list of categories of 
 
   
organisations. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
 

22.  For consent to be valid it is required to be “freely given”, by which it 
   
follows that if consent to marketing is a condition of subscribing to a 
   
service, the organisation will have to demonstrate how the consent can 
 
 
be said to have been given freely. 
 

   
 
 

 
   

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23.  Consent is also required to be “specific” as to the type of marketing 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

communication to be received, and the organisation, or specific type of 
 
organisation, that will be sending it. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24.  Consent will not be “informed” if individuals do not understand what 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
   

they are consenting to. Organisations should therefore always ensure 
 
that the language used is clear, easy to understand, and not hidden 
 
away in a privacy policy or small print.  Consent will not be valid if 
   
individuals are asked to agree to receive marketing from “similar 
 
organisations”, “partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar 
 
generic description. 
  

 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
25.  The Commissioner has considered the evidence provided by SCL. SCL 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

asserted that it purchased data relating to individuals who had recently 
 
applied for loans and who had consented to receiving SMS, email 
 
and/or telephone communications about third party products or 
 
services. However, it failed to provide any evidence that the individuals 
 
who received the messages had provided valid consent for  SMS 
 
 
messages sent by or at the instigation of SCL. 
  
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

26.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied from the evidence he has seen 
 

 
that SCL did not have the necessary valid consent for the 441,830 
 
direct marketing messages received by subscribers. 
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
27.  The Commissioner has considered, as he is required to do under 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 
 

section 40(2) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) when 
 
 
deciding whether to serve an Enforcement Notice, whether any 
 
contravention has caused or is likely to cause any person damage. The 
 
 
Commissioner has decided that it is unlikely that damage has been 
 
caused in this instance. 
 
 
In view of the matters referred to above the Commissioner hereby 
 
gives notice that, in exercise of his powers under section 40 of the 
 
DPA, he requires SCL to take the steps specified in Annex 1 of this 
 
Notice. 
 
 
 
Right of Appeal 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28. 
 

 

 

 
29.  There is a right of appeal against this Notice to the First-tier Tribunal 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(Information Rights), part of the General Regulatory Chamber. 
  
Information about appeals is set out in the attached Annex 2. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
Dated the 3rd day of August 2023 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
Signed ………………………………………………. 
 
 
Andy Curry 
 
Head of Investigations 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX  1  
 

TERMS  OF  THE  ENFORCEMENT  NOTICE  

SCL shall within 30 days of the date of this notice: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

  Except in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (3) of 
 
 

 
regulation 22 of PECR, neither transmit, nor instigate the 
 
transmission of, unsolicited communications for the purposes of 
 
direct marketing by means of electronic mail unless the recipient of 
 
 
the electronic mail has previously notified SCL that he clearly and 
 
specifically consents for the time being to such communications 
 
being sent by, or at the instigation of, SCL. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

9 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

ANNEX  2  
 

RIGHTS  OF  APPEAL  AGAINST  DECISIONS  OF  THE  COMMISSIONER  

 

 
1. 
 

 

2. 
 
 

 

3. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 48 of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person upon 
 
whom an enforcement notice has been served a right of appeal to the 
 
 
First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the “Tribunal”) against the 
 
notice. 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 
 

 
b) 
 

 

 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 
 
accordance with the law; or 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of discretion by 
 
the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised his discretion 
 
differently, 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
 
could have been made by the Commissioner.  In any other case the 
 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the Tribunal 
 
 
at the following address: 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
                 
                 
                 
 

 

 

 

 
 

General Regulatory Chamber 
 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
 
 
PO Box 9300 
 
Leicester 
 
LE1 8DJ 
  

 

 

 

 

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
 

 

 

 

 

10 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 
Email: 

 
grc@justice.gov.uk 

 

 

4. 
  

 
 

 

 

  The notice of appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 
 
 

 
days of the date on which the enforcement notice was sent 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier  Tribunal 
 
(General Regulatory Chamber) are contained in sections 48 and 49 of, 
 
and Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal 
 
Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 
 
 
 
2009 (Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 
 

