Decision on the substance 02/2021-1/26

   
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Dispute room

Decision on the merits 02/2021 of 12 January 2021

 

 

 

 
File number : DOS-2020-01192
 
Subject : Complaint for managing a fan page on Facebook without permission
of the data subject whose name the page bears
 
 
The Dispute Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, composed of Mr Hielke
Hijmans, chairman and Messrs Dirk Van Der Kelen and Jelle Stassijns, members;
 
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive
95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), hereinafter GDPR;
 
In view of the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter
WOG;
 
In view of the
internal order, as approved by the Chamber of
Members of Parliament on 20 December 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on
January 15, 2019;
 
Having regard to the documents in the file;
 
 
 

rules of

 

.
 .

.
.

.
.

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 2/26

has made the following decision regarding:

- Mrs. x, represented by Mr. Philippe Billiet, hereinafter referred to as “the complainant”, against

-

Mr y1 , hereinafter “the first defendant”, and the company y2, hereinafter “the second

defendant”, jointly as “the defendants”, both represented by mr. Caroline

curtis.

 

 

1. Scope of the dispute

 

1. The file was submitted to the Disputes Chamber following a complaint against the
defendants, in accordance with Article 92, 1° WOG. The subject of the complaint relates to
on aspects relating to the protection of personal data in the context of (the management of)
a Facebook fan page. No investigation was requested by the Disputes Chamber from the
Inspection service as referred to in Article 94, 1° WOG. The Disputes Chamber will include elements in the file
that are not related to the subject matter of the initial complaint are not dealt with in the present
decision.
 
2. Facts and Procedure

Facts
 
2. The complaint concerns the processing of the complainant's personal data via a fan page on
Facebook that bears her name and first name. It's mainly about the fan page that can be found
is
[..].
  

hyperlink

through

the

3. Attached to the complaint is a document that clearly shows that the name of the page is the
represents the complainant's full name and first name, and is therefore not limited to the initials of
the
webpage.
 

hyperlink

complainant,

like

by

the

the

in

4. According to the complainant, the rights to manage the fan page have been assigned to at least
one of the joint controllers. The complainant argues that the processing
is not lawful in accordance with Article 6 of the GDPR. The complainant wishes that these rights for the
management of the fan page will be transferred to her, so that she can exercise control herself
about the fan page that bears her name and first name.
 

5. The complainant and the second defendant, in the context of the professional artistic activities
of the complainant over a period of many years, agreements and agreements, in the context of
from which the management of the fan page came about.

 

6. On March 5, 2020, the complainant, represented by her counsel, shall lodge a complaint with the
Data Protection Authority. The complaint alleges possible violations of Articles 6, 7, 12
paragraphs 3, 20 and 21 GDPR. The complainant requests the Data Protection Authority to
initiate an investigation, impose a sanction on the defendants and order the defendants
transfer the rights to manage the fan page on Facebook to the complainant.

 

7. On March 10, 2020, the complaint was declared admissible pursuant to Article 58 of the WOG and was

transferred to the Disputes Chamber in accordance with Article 62, §1 WOG.

 

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 3/26

The procedure before the Disputes Chamber
 
8. In accordance with Article 95, §1, the Disputes Chamber first proceeded to take a light
decision', namely Decision 14/2020 of the Disputes Chamber of 14 April 2020, hereinafter
Decision 14/2020.
 

9. The motivational part of Decision 14/2020, inter alia, states the following:

 

“The complainant opposes managing the fan page on Facebook with her name and

first name by the joint controllers, including asking the

obtain rights to manage the fan page.

 

In view of the complainant's objection to the processing of the personal data, in particular

her name and first name, is clearly formulated in the complaint, the Disputes Chamber deems it

sufficient to address the joint controllers first

to warn them to stop and act on any breaches of the GDPR

to the complainant's request.

 

In that sense, the Disputes Chamber notes for the sake of completeness that the complainant invokes

its right to data portability, in accordance with Article 20 GDPR, and its right

of objection pursuant to Article 21 GDPR. She does not want the fan page, and with the

fan page, the personal data concerning her will be deleted without further ado.”

 

10. The operative part of Decision 14/2020 reads:

 

"FOR THESE REASONS,

 

the Disputes Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides to:

 

- pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, a) GDPR and Article 95, §1, 4° WOG the joint

warn data controllers that they may not use personal data

process where it is not lawful in accordance with Article 6 of the GDPR; possible

violations of the GDPR are subject to sanctions in accordance with the provisions of the

GDPR and WOG;

 

- pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, c) GDPR and Article 95, §1, 5° WOG, the joint

order controllers to comply with the request of the

complainant to exercise its rights within the meaning of Article 20 and Article 21 GDPR. The

The Disputes Chamber instructs the joint controller to submit this request

comply with this decision within 7 days of notification;

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 4/26

 

- the

joint

controllers

at

order

the

Notify the Data Protection Authority (Dispute Chamber) by email that

the above-mentioned order has been complied with, no later than 14 days after the notification of

this decision (via the email address […]); and

 

- in case the joint controllers do not implement in a timely manner

the above, the substance of the case in accordance with Articles 98 et seq. WOG

to treat."

 
11. On April 21, 2020, counsel for the defendants filed an appeal

against Decision 14/2020 at the Marktenhof, in accordance with Article 108, §1 WOG.

 
12. Seen by the defendants – according to the appeal procedure initiated at the Market Court – active
opposition was raised to what was ordered in Decision 14/2020, and they also
have not notified the Disputes Chamber within the requested period or have
enacting order imposed by Decision 14/2020 was complied with, the Disputes Chamber leads
subsequently concluded that the defendants did not appear to intend to comply with this injunction.
Consequently, the Disputes Chamber decides, in accordance with the operative part of Decision 14/2020 and
pursuant to Article 95, §1, 1° and Article 98 WOG, that the file is ready for processing at
ground.

 
13. By letter dated 13 May 2020, the complainant and the defendants are informed of the
decision of the Disputes Chamber to proceed to a hearing on the merits of the
file. This letter also informs the parties of the claim periods.
 

Defendants' answer conclusion
 
14. On

lay

2020

June

24

the

defendants

their

first

conclusion

down.

 

15. The Disputes Chamber clarifies that the first defendant is the manager of the second
defendant, and that the correspondence address of that first defendant is the same as the
registered office of the second defendant.
 

16. The defendants point out that the second defendant, a company, has “for many years
music project [name of artistic project A] [has] under her care”. The defendants point
Note that the complainant had been the “performing artist/singer” of the artistic since 2008
project. The second defendant also asserts “the intellectual property rights in the musical works”
connected
to hold.
 

artistic

project

below

himself

at

the

at

17. The second defendant, according to the reply of the defendants, in the context of
the commercialization, sale and exploitation of the musical works, a Facebook fan page
created under the title '[..]'. In the first part of the answer conclusion that the
defendants, the screenshot shows that the title of the fan page itself is the

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 5/26

sufficient
 

name

and

First Name

by

the

complainant

displays.

18. The defendants' answer conclusion states that on the fan page "photos, artwork and videos"
[are] placed, to which also rights on the part of [the second defendant] as an investor
in that regard. Photos of shows by [artistic project A] were also put on this page
[…]” According to the answer conclusion, the fan page only pursues “professional purposes”
which “in no way concerns the private person of the artist”.
 

19. The defendants point to the various commercial disputes that the complainant has with the

second defendant, as well as the personal disputes with the first defendant.

 

20. The defendants also point out that the complainant always retained editorial rights to the
fan page, meaning she could post messages on the fan page, but not
had administrative rights over the fan page, which allow, for example, editorial rights or
grant or restrict administrative rights to other persons or companies over the fan page
take away.

 

21. The defendants also point out that proceedings for

the Court of First Instance was instituted.

 

22. The defendants also point out that the fan page was transferred to the complainant in April, this
means that neither the first nor the second defendant are (longer) administrators of the fan page;
the management rights would have been transferred in full to the complainant.

 

23. Defendants “claim […] as to the complaint, alleged infringement and demand for sanctions”
in the main order to reject the claim and complaint of the complainant and to establish that there is no
infringement was committed [and] order the non-prosecution of the two defendants; in
subordinate order to order the suspension of the judgment, or to propose a settlement
pose.”

 

24. As regards the complainant's claim to transfer the management rights, the
defendants that “the GBA is not competent in this regard” and the defendants request the
Litigation Chamber “to dismiss at least this claim as unfounded and most subordinate”
declare in that regard that this claim is devoid of purpose.”

 

25. The pleas put forward by the defendants:

at

to fetch

defendants

 
1. Means 1: “the assignment and authority of the GBA: detecting infringements: processing”
personal data and capacity of (joint) controllers”
 
The
controller
 
According to the defendants, only the second defendant is the controller, and
together with Facebook as joint controllers in the sense
by
considered.
 
According to the defendants, the first defendant is “in no way in its own name the
administrator of the fan page in question, has never had administrative rights and is never
on
name."

joint
14/2020.

Which
turn into

at
seen

intervened

Decision

any

wrongly

turn into

own

article

wise

GDPR

if

in

26

she

in

Decision on the substance 02/2021 - 6/26

 
The defendants point out that when actions were taken by the first
defendant, this according to the organ theory can only be “attributed to the
legal person itself and never directly to the body.”
 
In addition, the defendants also argue that there is in no way a processing of
personal data of the complainant within the meaning of the GDPR, by neither of the two
defendants.
 
The defendants state: “in fact there are no private or personal data on the
concerning professional page and bears the name only [..] [for the
legibility of the pseudonymised version of the decision: i.e. the handle with the
initials of the complainant's surname and first name, in accordance with the assessment of the
Disputes Chamber infra], which can never be qualified as
'personal data'."
 

2. Medium

2:

“right to portability – art. 20 GDPR”

the

on

hair

 
The defendants state that “in any case, it must be decided that the
concerning page on Facebook in no way relates to [the complainant] if
private person and also does not contain any private information that would have been provided by
the person concerned [complainant] as a private person. Her personal data is not used
without
permission."
 
The defendants also point out that the complainant could also report as an editor himself
place
fan page.
 
The defendants also point out that Article 20 of the GDPR provides that this right does not affect
may interfere with the rights and freedoms of others, which, according to the defendants, is
this is the case, resulting in “a manifest violation of intellectual rights in
this content”,
defendant.
 
The conclusion underlines that "significant investments were made" by the second defendant
done in order to create these musical works and in order to protect [the complainant]
promote […] these photos, videos and musical works are used on the appropriate
page and all this [is] the property of [the second defendant].”
 
The defendants argue that Article 20 GDPR cannot be applied to the transfer
of control rights over a fan page on Facebook, now that these control rights have been
second defendant were created, and the complainant in this regard therefore not himself
personal data
GDPR.
 

provided

second

article

name

has

for

of

by

sentence

20

and

the

the

in

3. Medium

3:

“lawful processing of personal data – art. 6 GDPR”

 
The defendants point out that there is in no way an unlawful processing of
personal data took place via the contested fan page, given that processing by the
second defendant was necessary for the performance of a contract,
corresponding
GDPR.
 
The defendants state in this regard: “consequently, no permission is required from the

article

point

member

b)

6,

1,

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 7/26

the

sentence

art.

by

[complainant] and there is no unlawful processing of personal data
in
GDPR.”
 
In the reply claim (infra) it is added to this plea that the processing
of personal data can at least be based on the legitimate interests of the
second defendant, on the basis of Article 6(1)(f) GDPR. The defendants refer
inter alia to the previous contractual links between the complainant and the second
defendant, and the commercial consequences of the breach of contract
to this.
 

6

4. Medium

4: “violation of GDPR? No proof/motivation – obscuri libelli”

 
The defendants state that there is “no objective evidence available from which”
would follow, let alone be proven that there was a violation of art. 6-7-12(3)-
20-21
GDPR.”
 
In this context, the defendants argue that the Decision 14/2020 is insufficiently substantive
motivates, or provides evidence, why infringements of the aforementioned articles
would have been committed. The defendants also point out that the aforementioned
decision “had very far-reaching consequences, where the complainant has now turned the page”
in-house, including all music, images, artwork, contracts, etc. of
[the
defendant]."
 
In the reply claim (infra), the defendants further specify in this regard that there is a
“lack of evidence”
 

complaint unclear

and that the

second

vague

and

is

is.

5. Means 5: “transfer of the account data and management rights – without object”

 
Since the management rights were transferred to the complainant in April, "the claim"
at least partly without object," according to the defendants. The transfer of
management rights, according to the defendants, was “manifestly wrongly and [the second
Defendant] is entitled to restitution of the management rights and account data.”
 

6. Medium

6:

“subordinate:

suspension

or

settlement”

 
The defendants point to “the relationships” between the parties “and numerous mitigating factors”
circumstances".
 
This remedy
 

reply conclusion

resumed

(infra).

became

not

the

in

7. Medium

7:

“regarding

the

publication”

 
The defendants request the publication of the decision “anonymize and
pseudonymise".
 

The complainant's reply
 
26. The complainant makes 15

 

July 2020, through her counsel, her reply conclusion.

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 8/26

27. The complainant emphasizes that her personal data are indeed processed by
at least one of the two defendants, and that those personal data are "systematically"
subject to change or modification by defendants.”
 

28. The complainant cites that profiles are also available on other online platforms, such as Youtube and LinkedIn
were created containing the name and first name and other personal data of the complainant
to wear. According to the complainant, these profiles are also managed by at least one of the
defendants, without the complainant's consent or without
contractual
existed.
 

need

29. Specifically, the complainant puts forward the following pleas:

 
1. Ground 1: “defendants wrongly believe that the GBA would act as a company court”
to pronounce"

must
 

2. Means 2: “the Facebook page '[..]' [handle fan page](abbreviation of 'x' [full name and
first name of the complainant] online), as well as the questionable profile pages on LINKEDIN and
YOUTUBE,
complainant]”
 

personal data

contain

by

[the

3. Medium 3:

“Defendants are/were joint controllers”

 

4. Ground 4: “the fact that [the complainant] was an 'editor' of the page does not relieve the defendants from
to live"

regulations

obligation

GDPR

to

the

after

at

their
 

5. Ground 5: “[the complainant] does not violate the rights and freedoms of third parties and does not violate
rights”

intellectual
 

6. Ground 6: “on 27/02/2020 the defendants explicitly wrote that between them and [the complainant]
there is no longer a contractual relationship, so that a fortiori there is no agreement regarding
any processing of [the complainant]'s personal data by the defendants'
 

7. Plea 7: “Breach of Art. 6 GDPR on the lawfulness of the processing of the
personal data of the data subject as the activities of [the joint
controllers] to any of the legality requirements of this article
satisfies"
 

8. Ground 8: “Breach of Art. 7 GDPR regarding the required consent with the processing
of the personal data of the data subject used for the management of her Facebook profile
[the fan page] was never given and that, should it ever have been implied, most certainly
has been revoked upon termination of the management agreement in November 2019 and in
the express correspondence of [the complainant]”I
 

9. Ground 9: “Breach of Art. 12 (3) GDPR on the detailed rules for exercise
of the rights of the data subjects, as requests under are not complied with
art. 20 to transfer the management rights of the social media profile of the data subject
and the request to suspend any data processing relating to it”
 

10. Ground 10: “Breach of Art. 20 GDPR on the right to data portability
data of the data subject, as these are not used at the frequent request of the data subject
transferred"

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 9/26

 

11. Plea 11: “Breach of Art. 21 GDPR with regard to the right of objection made by
the data subject following the refusal to prevent the processing of her personal data
to strike"
 

12. Ground 12: “the proceedings on the merits are not an appeal procedure against the ones already taken

interim decision of the GBA”
 

13. Means 13: “prevents the fact that the Facebook page has meanwhile been transferred to [the complainant]
not that it should be established that the defendants refused to voluntarily
to comply with obligations under the GDPR regulations and to be subject to a sanction.
In addition, it appears that their infringements also exist with regard to other profile pages of [the complainant]
 

14. Ground 14: “no reason for suspension”

 

15. Ground 15: “a decision to publish should not miss its purpose”

 

30. In her reply, the complainant therefore asks the Disputes Chamber to substantiate her complaint
declare and impose a sanction on the defendants in light of the GDPR infringements, te
confirm that the complainant may keep the contested fan page on Facebook, recommending to the
defendants to control the management rights of the profile pages with the name and first name of the
to transfer the complainant on Youtube and LinkedIn to the complainant, to publish the decision to be made
without anonymization and to order the defendants to pay the costs of the
complainant (3000 EUR).

 
The response of the defendants
 
31. On

August

make 2020

5

the

defendants

a

reply conclusion

about.

 

32. The defendants' claims remain the same as those in their response claim, with the
addition that the complainant's request in its reply statement with regard to the
transfer management rights to other social media profiles, including Youtube and
LinkedIn, should be rejected as “inadmissible, at least unfounded”.
 

33. The defendants add the following pleas to their defence, in addition to the pleas

which they put forward in their answer conclusion.
 
1. First new plea in the reply claim: “violation of Article 7 – not relevant”

 
The defendants point to the fact that Article 7 of the GDPR contains the “required conditions for the
consent to the processing of personal data”, “however, this applies
provision only in the case in which the processing of personal data is based
in
permission."
 
The defendants point out that the processing “results from the contractual relationship between
[the second defendant] and [the complainant] (and not the consent)” and that the application of
article
 

“completely irrelevant”

present

datum

therefore

case

GDPR

the

on

7

is.

2. Second new plea: “Breach of Article 12 (3) GDPR – no application and no

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 10/26

violation”
 
The defendants point out that this provision does not apply, given that this article "frames"
in the circumstance where data subjects want certain information or a certain request
to the person responsible.” According to the defendants, this is not the case in this case
the GBA has delivered a decision before giving justice, and it is therefore not a
"communication
is going.
 
The defendants also point out that Article 12(3) of the GDPR does not imply that a
controller must respond positively to any request such as that of a
complainant.
 

responsible

data subject”

between

and

3. Third new plea: “claim extension [by the complainant] regarding other social media (Youtube,

LinkedIn,…)”
 
The defendants oppose the extension of the subject matter of this file to
Others
platforms.
 

user profiles

Others

online

on

4. Fourth

new remedy:

“concerning the consequences & sanctions & RPV”

 
The defendants maintain that a sanction by means of an administrative fine
should be proportionate, and hereby refer to the criteria for such fines set out in
article
 

83

GDPR.

34. The other new elements in the reply of the defendants under the previously
pleas put forward do not relate to the subject matter of the file on which the
Dispute Chamber pronounces itself, or are not of such a nature as to transfer the Dispute Chamber to another
decision
present.
 

would

come

to do

then

the

Communication outside the conclusion periods
 
35. After the expiry of the last claim period, both parties, and at different
moments before the hearing, e-mails sent or exchanged, which relate to
had on the underlying commercial disputes of the parties, and where the registry of the
Dispute chamber that received messages (whether or not in carbon copy). The content of these elements
continue on aspects that are not relevant for the assessment of this dossier on the basis of
the (enforcement) powers of the Disputes Chamber, and are therefore not further
explained.

The judgment of the Market Court with regard to Decision 14/2020
 

36. On 28 October 2020, the Market Court ruled in its judgment 2020/7467 on the appeal of the
defendants against Decision 14/2020. This judgment nullifies Decision 14/2020, but does not
ruling on the facts on the merits, in the sense that the Marktenhof has not made use of
of its full jurisdiction because it was an action against merely “provisional and remedial”

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 11/26

measures”.1
 

37. The Court states in the operative part of its judgment:

 

 

38. The judgment thus does not prevent the proceedings on the merits before the Disputes Chamber in accordance with

Articles 98 to 107 WOG will be continued in full.
 

The Hearing
 

39. In accordance with Article 98, 2° WOG, counsel for the defendants sent an e-mail dated 19 May

2020 that they wished to be heard.

 

 

40. In accordance with Article 51 Rules of Internal Order of the Data Protection Authority
As a result, a hearing was organized to which all parties were invited. The
hearing
2020.
 

October

Place

finds

on

29

41. In view of the Federal Government,2 as well as the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region,3 on
several times in the run-up to the hearing, issued measures that
made it impossible for the Litigation Chamber to hold a hearing in its usual format
take place, the hearing will take place online and by electronic means of communication. Both
parties
hearing.
 

presence

to confirm

their

on

the

42. At the hearing, the complainant is represented by two legal counsel; the defendants
represented.

counselor

by means of

a

turn into
 

43. A record of the hearing was drawn up for the purpose of clarifying and
display additions made during the hearing, without de
elements set out in the conclusion. Some of the elements that will be discussed below

                                                

1 Judgment of the Brussels Court of Appeal (Section 19A, Marktenhof) of 28 October 2020, X t. GBA, 2020/7467 (roll no. 2020/AR/582), dot
7.6.

2 Ministerial Decree of 30 June 2020 on urgent measures to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus COVID-19
limit, as amended by Ministerial Decree of October 8, 2020, B.S. October 8, 2020.

3 Decree of the Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region of 7 October 2020 closing the bars
and establishing emergency measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19, B.S. October 18, 2020;
the offices of the Data Protection Authority, where the Disputes Chamber is also located, are located in this regional
region.

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 12/26

mention
 

are

relevant

for

the

present

decision.

44. At the hearing, counsel for the complainant states that it appears from the documents in the file that
the complainant, through her counsel, already sent a message to the defendants on March 2, 2020
sent, alleging that the first defendant is “violating GDPR obligations”
by impersonating [the complainant] via Facebook.” Further in the same message of March 2, 2020
the counsel adds: “for the record, I also clarify that your clients, now that they know
indicate that there is no longer an agreement under which my client to [artistic project A]
shows, no longer have the right to use any
personal data of my client (photos, name, voice recordings, etc.).”
 

45. In that sense, counsel argues that Article 12(3) of the GDPR has indeed been violated, given the
request.

consequence

gifts

on time

not

at

the

defendants
 

46. Both the complainant's counsel and the counsel for the defendants argue that there is
a cessation procedure is pending at the company court in Leuven, having its seat as in
summary proceedings. The fan page referred to in the complaint in this file, among others
claims,
strike procedure.
 

object

by

the

from

the

47. As usual and as provided for in Article 54 of the Rules of Internal Order of the
Data Protection Authority, the Disputes Chamber has invited both parties to
to have comments added to the record of the hearing as an annex to that record
verbally, without this implying a reopening of the debates. Both parties have
responded to that invitation, and those responses were appended to the official report
added to the file. None of those responses, however, contained elements that would prompt
give to a decision other than that in the present decision, for whatever reason the content
is not repeated in this factual account.

 

 
The judgment of the company court of Leuven dd. [..] November 2020
 
48. The complainant reports on 2 December 2020 that the company court had rendered a judgment in
a case in which the contested fan page was also the subject of the proceedings, just
as in the present proceedings. In that judgment reference is made to the pending proceedings at
grounds at the Disputes Chamber.
 

49. The judgment finds that the second defendant, through the commercial use of the

“personality rights” – including, but not limited to, the contested Facebook
fan page – the complainant is guilty of unfair market practices (pursuant to Article VI.
104 Code of Economic Law), but does not rule on possible violations of the
GDPR. The presiding judge of the court orders the cessation of the practices in the verdict
penalty of a penalty, to be paid to the complainant.
 

50. The parties were given an additional opportunity to conclude on the award and made

accordingly submit additional conclusions to the Disputes Chamber.
 

51. With the President of the Business Court not ruling on infringements of the

GDPR, and other factual elements underlying the judgment, the
Disputes Chamber proceed in full to take up its powers with regard to the
legislation on personal data protection and taking a decision in
present file.

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 13/26

 

The fine form of December 23, 2020

 

 

52. On December 23, 2020, the Disputes Chamber sent a fine form to the

defendant, stating that the Disputes Chamber intended to pay a fine of 10,000
EUR to be imposed on the defendant as a result of the infringements of several provisions of the
GDPR in this file (the same infringements identified in the present decision)
withheld from imposing an administrative monetary sanction under Article 83
GDPR).
 

53. In its response to the fine form on 7 January 2021, the defendant refers to a number of

elements that are taken into account by the Disputes Chamber in its deliberations.

 

 

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 14/26

3. Justification

 
3.1

Jurisdiction of the Disputes Chamber (Article 2 GDPR; Article 4 WOG)
 

55. In accordance with Article 2(1) of the GDPR, the Regulation applies “to all or

partially automated processing, as well as to the processing of personal data that
contained in a file or which are intended to be included therein.”
 

56. In accordance with Article 4(1) of the GDPR, personal data is:

 

“any information about an identified or identifiable natural person (“the”
data subject”); is considered identifiable a natural person who directly or
can be identified indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier such as a
name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or of one or more
elements characteristic of the physical, physiological, genetic, psychological,
economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person;”
 

57. Various social media platforms use so-called 'handles',
these are identifiers linked to a specific user account or any other web page.
These handles are in principle immutable references to a particular location of the
web platform, where the handle is often, and like this one, contained in the web link (the Uniform
Resource Locator, URL for short). The handle associated with the contested fan page is '[..]'.
 

58. First of all, the Disputes Chamber states that the initials of a name of a natural person

person, in this case the name and first name of the complainant, constitute personal data in the sense
of the GDPR. Considering the photos and videos and other content of the web page, viewable on
several screenshots in the file, is there a clear link with the complainant and is
it is identifiable within the meaning of Art. 4, point 1) GDPR. In addition, the title of the fan page,
as visible on a document in the complaint and a document accompanying the response conclusion that the
defendants themselves has been submitted, in fact the full name and first name of the complainant.
This is therefore identified, not in the least also via the search function within
facebook.

 

59. In addition, it is important to underline that it is immaterial in which context

personal data has been obtained, in order to qualify that personal data as such in the
sense of the GDPR. It is therefore irrelevant whether personal data (initially) in a professional or
contractual context were collected so that the GDPR could be materially applied
pursuant to Article 2 of the GDPR.
 

60. The Disputes Chamber in no way denies that there is a possibility that contractual or even

legal (under intellectual property rights) claims to the exploitation or
commercialization of the fan page images, works or other content. This does
however, does not detract from the fact that the page is linked to the full name and person of the
complainant.

 

61. Since the entire page is devoted to the person of the complainant, all

data on this fan page associated with the complainant, without stating that all
data on that fan page is therefore by definition personal data within the meaning of the GDPR.
Given the close connection of the complainant's person to the fan page, it is of the utmost importance

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 15/26

It is in the interest of the complainant as a data subject to receive the necessary management, in order to – as they do themselves –
expressly asks – to be able to manage its personal data itself and independently.

 

62. The Data Protection Authority is therefore competent to assess the complaint and
the file in accordance with Article 4 WOG and in accordance with the material scope
of the GDPR as laid down in Article 2 GDPR.
 
 
3.2 The controllers (Article 4, 7 GDPR)

 

63. The definition of “controller” in the GDPR is the following:4

 
“A natural or legal person, a public authority, a service or other
body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing
of the personal data: when the objectives of and the means for this
processing is established in Union or Member State law, may
determine who the controller is or according to which criteria they are
designated”
 

64. In Decision 14/2020, the defendants were both identified as (joint)
controllers, as they both identify themselves as possible controllers
behaved towards the complainant. To indicate (preliminary to the proceedings on the merits)
of both as data controllers was done in light of an effective,
effective and full protection of the complainant, in line with the case law of the
Court of Justice regarding the broad interpretation of the term controller.5
 

65. The Court of Justice previously confirmed that for the assessment of the concept
controller,
the
controller is important.6 In the same vein, the Court confirmed that a
legal entity that, for reasons of its own, exerts influence on the processing of
personal data, can be regarded as the controller.7

person concerned

opinion

about

by

the

the

 

66. All this does not exclude the possibility of other controllers named in the case

who bear their own responsibility, in this case Facebook in particular.

 

67. It was previously confirmed by the Court of Justice that it is possible, in the context of a
processing with joint controllers, not all operations performed by the
respective controllers with the personal data are carried out, the
responsibility of each controller.8 This is particularly the case
when it is a specific controller who determines the purpose and means
for a specific operation.

                                                

4 Art. 4(7) GDPR.

5 CJEU Judgment of 13 May 2014, Google Spain SL v. Agencia Espanola de proteccion de Datos (AEPD) et al., C-131/12; ECLI:
EU:C:2014:317, para. 34 ; see also the discussion of the scope of the concept in C. DOCKSEY and H. HIJMANS, “The
Court of Justice as a Key Player in Privacy and Data Protection”, European Data Protection Law Review, 2019, ep. 3, (300)304.

6 CJEU Judgment of 10 July 2018, Tietosuojavaltuutettu v. Jehovan todistajat – uskonnollinen yhdyskunta, C-25/17,
ECLI:EU:C:2018:551.

7 Ibid., para. 68.

8 Cf. CJEU Judgment of 29 July 2019, Fashion ID GmbH & Co KG v. Verbraucherzentrale NRW eV, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:C:2019:629,
par. 76.

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 16/26

68. It is apparent from the claims of the defendants that the first defendant merely acts as manager of the
second defendant created the fan page on Facebook.9 In that sense, in particular on the basis
of the statements of the defendants themselves in this regard, only the second defendant can
be designated with certainty as a controller within the meaning of the GDPR for the
management of the fan page. The second defendant, according to its own defenses,
indeed created the fan page in order to commercialize its commercial relationship with the complainant
exploit (‘the purpose’ of the processing). At the hearing, the second defendant states
manage the fan page with your own Facebook user account (‘the resources’ for the
processing).
 

69. That Facebook would also be a controller for the processing in this regard
of personal data via the contested fan page, does not preclude a review of
compliance with the provisions
second defendant as
controller, now that the complaint is (also) addressed to the second defendant.
 

in the GDPR by the

70. Indeed, Article 26(3) of the GDPR states:

 

“Irrespective of the terms of the scheme referred to in paragraph 1, the data subject may exercise his rights
under this Regulation with regard to and towards any
controller exercise.”
 

71. It

is therefore the

second defendant acting as controller
is responsible for the processing operations that are the subject of the complaint, and this on
pursuant to Article 4(7) GDPR, and the obligations arising therefrom in accordance with
in particular Article 24 j° Article 26 GDPR. To the extent that the complaint is directed against the first defendant,
this shelved.

 
3.3. The lawfulness of the processing (Article 6(1) of the GDPR)

 

72. Article 6(1) of the GDPR lists the possible conditions to be met
fulfilled to initiate and maintain lawful processing. In this case, the following
requirements
relevant:
 

 “The processing is only lawful if and to the extent that at least one of the
the following conditions are met:
a) the data subject has consented to the processing of his/her
personal data for one or more specific purposes;
b) the processing is necessary for the performance of a contract whereby the
data subject is a party, or at the request of the data subject before the conclusion of a
agreement to take measures;
[…]
f) the processing is necessary for the protection of the legitimate interests of
the controller or of a third party, except where the interests or
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject for the protection of
require personal data, outweigh those interests […]”
 

                                                

9 The defendants state in their reply conclusion, p.2: “In the context of this, [the second defendant] in 2014 was
record label created a professional page on various social media, such as Facebook”, after which they refer to the
disputed fan page.

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 17/26

73. As already indicated, there were various contractual links between the second

the defendant and the complainant, including a management agreement (from 2008), a
artist agreement (from July 26, 2008) and an exclusive publishing agreement (from 3
Nov 2015). This is also substantiated by documents by the second defendant.
 

74. The contractual ties came to an end on 3 November 2019. This is confirmed (“there

are not contractual ties") by counsel for the second defendant in its
communication with the complainant's counsel in February 2020. This communication was
attached as a document to the complainant's reply.
 

75. Given the specificity of the artistic sector, in particular the entertainment sector, where

amassing fans is in itself part of the usual commercial practice, it is
not illogical that from a management agreement the management of profile and security
fan pages via social media platforms. That was the case in this case.
 

76. The complainant's personal data, which were collected via, among other things, the Facebook fan page

processed, as evidenced by the lack of express and free consent (independent of
the commercial agreements) of the complainant, therefore find their legal basis
in Article 6(1)(b) GDPR. This basis ceased to exist as soon as the contractual links
between the complainant and the second defendant ceased to exist.

 

77. The complaint relates to personal data processing via the fan page after 3

November 2019, i.e. the end of the contractually agreed cooperation.

 

78. It can be underlined for the sake of completeness that it is up to the controller

is to demonstrate the lawfulness of the processing, pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 2 in conjunction with
Article 24 GDPR.

 

79. The complainant has not consented in any way to the processing of her

personal data within the meaning of Article 6(1)(a) GDPR after the aforementioned date. No
any other condition for the lawfulness of the processing in Article 6 (1) of the GDPR is in
possible in this context, unless point f) of that provision.

 

80. For example, there is no legal obligation (Article 6(1)(c) GDPR) to manage the

fan page, nor is the processing necessary to protect the vital interests of the complainant or other
protect natural persons (Article 6(1)(d) GDPR). For the sake of completeness, you can also
it can be determined that there is no public interest task or an obligation to perform
of a function of public authority rests on the second defendant (Article 6(1)(e))
GDPR).

 

81. Consequently, the application of Article 6(1)(f) GDPR must be examined, for the

processing of the complainant's personal data via the fan page, after November 3, 2019.

 

82. In accordance with the case-law of the Court of Justice, the second defendant serves as

therefore demonstrate to the controller that:

 
1) the interests they pursue with the processing can be justified as legitimate

recognized (the “target test”);

2) the intended processing is necessary for the realization of those interests (the

“necessity test”); and

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 18/26

3) balancing those interests against the interests, fundamental freedoms and
the
“weighing test”).10

involved
or

weighs in
by
a

benefit

third

by

(the

the

in

by

fundamental rights
controllers
 
 

83. First of all, the Disputes Chamber finds that the second defendant has an interest in

to manage the complainant's fan page, as there is a commercial value to the second
defendant is associated with the success and fame of the complainant as part of,
among others, singer of the artistic project A. This is also the case for any copyrights
which the second defendant would keep, with the right reserved for that defendant
to use the name and first name of the complainant for the exploitation of certain works.
 

84. In itself, the use of the complainant's surname and first name is therefore "acceptable according to the"

legislation”,11 and could a priori support the use as processing of personal data
on the legitimate interests of the second defendant within the meaning of Article 6(1)(f)
GDPR.
 

85. In the present case, however, the processing goes beyond the mere use of the surname and first name of

the complainant for the exploitation of works protected by copyright or of interest to
the commercialization of an artistic project.
 

86. The fan page was created to appeal to fans of the complainant's person, not just the

fans of that music to which the second defendant may have commercial claims.
Moreover, following the position of the second defendant would mean that the
commercial and intellectual property rights protected interests of the
second defendant would prevail over the claims for the protection of
personal data of the first complainant.
 

87. In the light of Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union

(“Charter”) and the provisions of the GDPR, that reasoning set forth by the second
defendant cannot be followed and the interests can therefore not be regarded as
be seen as 'justified'.
 

88. The processing of personal data in which the second defendant is, as it were, in person
of the complainant to present itself to the outside world on its behalf,
in no way find their legal basis in the legitimate interests of the second
defendant. After all, unlike a company, a natural person is more than his or
her professional activities. The management of personal data as part of the
Self-identity is a fundamental right, protected by Article 8 of the Charter.
 

89. For all these reasons, there is no legitimate interest for the second defendant to

continue to manage the complainant's fan page, after the termination of the contractual relations with
the complainant, as a result of which the management of the fan page results in the unlawful processing of
the complainant's personal data posted on that fan page and otherwise
incorporated.
 

                                                

10 Judgment of the CJEU of 4 May 2017, Rigas satiksme, C-13/16, EU:C:2017:336, paragraph 28.

11 Compare with the Data Protection Group, Opinion 06/2014 on the concept of “legitimate interest of the
data controller” in Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, WP 217, 9 April 2014, 30.

Decision on the substance 02/2021 - 19/26

90. Since the Disputes Chamber determines that the processing does not pass the target test, and the

controller has no other valid basis for lawfulness
designated, the processing is unlawful within the meaning of Article 6(1) of the GDPR. Given the
lack of legitimate interests in the first place is already sufficient to
To reach a conclusion, the Disputes Chamber considers the investigation of the necessity test and the
balancing test in this regard is not relevant.

 
3.4. The right to object (Article 21(1) of the GDPR) and the time limit for action

comply with the complainant's request (Article 12(3) of the GDPR)
 

91. Article 21(1) of the GDPR reads:

“1. The data subject has the right at all times, because of his specific situation
to object to the processing of him/her for related reasons
personal data on the basis of Article 6(1)(e) or (f) of Article 6(1) with
including profiling based on those provisions. The controller is discontinuing
the processing of the personal data unless he has compelling legitimate grounds
for the processing that outweigh the interests, rights and freedoms
of the data subject or related to the institution, exercise or substantiation
of a legal claim.

[…]”

92. According to the complainant, at various moments after the end of the contractual relations

between the complainant and the second defendant by (the counsel for) the complainant orally to the
asked the second defendant to no longer manage the fan page and to grant the administrative rights via
transfer the automated Facebook processes to the complainant.
 

93. On 2 March 2020, the complainant, with clear reference to the Facebook fan page,

addressed in writing to the second defendant to oppose the administration of the
fan page by that second defendant. In particular, the complainant argues, through her counsel, that the
first defendant “violates the GDPR obligations by impersonating Facebook as
[name of complainant].”
 

94. The defendants themselves state that the first defendant is not involved in a personal capacity,

already the activities – including personal data processing – that he through the fan page
performs in accordance with the organ theory, de iure can only be granted to the second defendant
are attributed.
 

95. Since the first defendant in this case is regarded as the manager of the second defendant,

the complainant's request was therefore clearly addressed to the second defendant if
controller. After all, in the e-mail message, the complainant writes to both defendants
as represented by the same counsel. When it is unclear to the complainant
is who is now concerned with the controller, is it therefore good practice of the
the complainant as the data subject to make all possible (joint or otherwise)
to contact data controllers.
 

96. The complainant also points out in the aforementioned e-mail message that there is no longer a

agreement exists whereby the personal data processing would be considered lawful
can be considered.12
 

                                                

12 From this e-mail from the complainant to counsel for the defendants: “with regard to GDPR [-] clarified for the record
I also that [the defendants], now that they state that there is no longer an agreement under which [the complainant]

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 20/26

97. Now the second defendant as controller considers that its mandatory

justified grounds outweigh the complainant's rights, as referred to in
Article 21(1) in fine GDPR. That is not the case in this case. Considering the management of the fan page
if processing personal data, the target test in accordance with Article 6(1)(f) GDPR
does not pass (supra, section 3.3. Decision), a fortiori it cannot be accepted that there
compelling legitimate grounds that would then be even more serious
outweigh the interests, rights and freedoms of the complainant when exercising the right
of objection.
 

98. Unnecessarily, keeping the admin rights of the fan page cannot be

regarded as related to the establishment, exercise or substantiation of a
legal claim. The management of the fan page in itself is not a requirement for asserting
own rights or to enforce own claims. The fan page and all the ones below
processing of personal data was, as it were, provided by the second defendant as guarantor
held in hand.
 

99. All of this should of course not affect the complainant's right to object

apply to the processing of its personal data.
 

100. Although the second defendant assumed (although incorrectly, see above, section 3.3.

of the Decision) that the personal data processing via the fan page has their legal basis
found in its own legitimate interests, quod non, the second defendant had it
request of the complainant to stop the personal data processing, without delay
must comply pursuant to Article 21(1) of the GDPR. The Disputes Chamber points out an abundance
Please note that those interests do not outweigh the rights, interests and freedoms of the
complainant.
 

101. Next, it can also be underlined that the complainant underlined in her complaint that she

“in no way [wants] her profile page to disappear […] but only wants her own
manage personal data.” The complaint therefore states emphatically that the complainant opposes
against the removal of the concerned fan page on Facebook.
 

102. The deletion of personal data also constitutes processing within the meaning of the GDPR. Seen

the complaint expressly objects to the disappearance of the fan page and, by definition,
the associated deletion of the personal data on that fan page, it should be
request of the complainant also to be interpreted as exercising the right of
objection pursuant to Article 21(1) of the GDPR, where the second defendant would proceed to the
remove the complainant's fan page.
 

103. The second defendant argues that it was unable to comply with the requests of

the complainant, since in the meantime a file has been submitted to the
Data protection authority concerning the same facts and subject matter, a procedure
which led to the decision with order dated April 14, 2020.
 

104. However, the second defendant only became aware that a file with the

DPA was pending after the April 14, 2020 'light' decision on
was transferred to her. Not being aware of a pending file also constituted the
core of the defense in appeal before the Market Court of the defendants.
 

105. In any case, it is not the case that a file with the Data Protection Authority with the same

factual object such as a request from a data subject, precludes the obligations
for the controller when a data subject exercises his or her rights in the sense
from Articles 12 to 22 GDPR. The term in Article 12, paragraph 3, can therefore in no way be extended in this regard
regarded as having been suspended or suspended because of the proceedings before the

                                                
[performances by artistic project A] would no longer have the right to use any
personal data of [the complainant] (photos, name, voice recordings, etc.).”

Decision on the substance 02/2021 - 21/26

Data Protection Authority.
 

106. Article 12(3) of the GDPR states that the controller is “without undue delay, and in any event

within one month of receipt of the request" the data subject (in this case the complainant) information"
must provide information on the follow-up to the request. The second defendant
must itself demonstrate13 that it has provided that information, and does not do so in this case
opposite the Disputes Chamber.
 

107. The Disputes Chamber also points out that if – as the second defendant claims – no

the complainant's request could be complied with, for whatever reason, the second
at no time did the defendant provide that information within the limits set out in Article 12(4)
AVG referred to the period of one month. Never mind that the second defendant provides that information
provided without delay.
 

108. For all the foregoing reasons, the second defendant infringes Article 21(1) of the GDPR

and to Article 12(3) of the GDPR.

 
3.5. It

 

straight

on

data portability

(article

20 GDPR)

109. Article 20 reads:

“Right to data portability

1. The data subject has the right to transfer personal data concerning him/her, which he/she transfers to a
controller has provided, in a structured, commonly used and
machine-readable form, and he has the right to transfer that data to another
data controller, without being hindered by the
controller to whom the personal data was provided, if:

a) the processing is based on consent pursuant to Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2);

point (a), or to an agreement under Article 6(1)(b); and

 
b) the processing is carried out by automated means.

2. When exercising his right to data portability under paragraph 1
the person concerned has the right to have the personal data, if technically possible,
be transferred directly from one controller to another
forwarded.

3. The exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be without prejudice to Article 17. That
right does not apply to processing necessary for the performance of a task of
public interest or of a task in the exercise of official authority
provided to the controller.

4. The right referred to in paragraph 1 shall not affect the rights and freedoms of others. »

 

110. Within a contractual relationship, the complainant has personal data, such as her name and
image, on the
second defendant has that
personal data – including – used to create and manage a fan page on
Facebook, pursuant to Article 6(1)(b) GDPR, given the underlying contractual terms
ratio. The complainant therefore has the right, pursuant to Article 20 of the GDPR, to

second defendant. The

                                                

13 Article 5(2) and Article 24 GDPR.

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 22/26

concerning personal data, in this case in the form of the management rights to the
fan page that bears her name and first name as the title.
 

111. The European legislator has tried to control
(in the English version: “control”) over their own data for data subjects, in the
especially in an online digital environment where social media reach a large audience.14
 

112. In accordance

2

member

20

article

a
controller, in this regard of the second defendant, that the personal data
be transferred directly to another controller, in this case
Facebook, so that the latter can make the (administration rights for the) fan page available
by
complainant.
 

to be expected

GDPR

by

can

the

113. It is true that there can be many commercial interests associated with managing a

fan page
 

on

facebook,

like

in this case

the

case

is

or

used to be.

114. It is therefore correct that it is important to transfer the fan page to the complainant, if
exercise of a complainant's right as a data subject, as if to put it in the 'scales' with
the rights and freedoms of the second defendant in accordance with Article 20(4) GDPR. Thereby
the Disputes Chamber takes into account that it is possible that commercial data, as well as
personal data (for example of the first defendant as manager of the second)
defendant),
complainant.
 

transferred

turn into

along

at

the

115. The European legislator explicitly recognizes that the right within the meaning of Article 20(1) of the GDPR may also be
exercised when the personal data concerns more than one data subject.15
 

116. The fan page is closely related to the identity of the complainant; after all, the fan page carries
first and foremost the complainant's full name and first name as the title, the handle contains the initials
of that name and first name, the posts are posted on the fan page from the perspective
of the complainant. Therefore, it cannot reasonably be argued that the rights and freedoms
disproportionately compromised by others in the transfer of this page, certainly
when
is going.
 

controller

about

yourself

the

the

117. If it were the case that the transfer affects the rights and freedoms of the second
defendant, is this a result of a (previous) contractual relationship between the complainant and
the second defendant, and its effect. However, this in no way justifies the 'hijacking' of
the personal data of a data subject, and the legal protection in this regard, especially when the
the person concerned previously indicated that he wished to take over the management of the fan page himself. 16
  

118. The Disputes Chamber finds that the fundamental right to data protection cannot be
limited by (non-compliance with) contractual claims inter partes, unless the latter

                                                

14 Recital 68 GDPR: “To further strengthen control over their own data, when the data subject is
personal data are processed via automatic processes, also the possibility to have the data concerning him/her
personal data that he has provided to a controller, in a structured, common,
obtain a machine-readable and interoperable format and transmit it to another controller
send[…]”

15 Recital 68 GDPR: “[…] When it concerns more than one data subject in a particular set of personal data,
the right to receive the personal data should be without prejudice to the rights and freedoms of other data subjects[…]”

16 Compare in recital 68 GDPR: “[…]Furthermore, this right should not affect the data subject's right to
erasure of personal data and the limitations on that right set out in this Regulation, and may
in particular do not imply that the personal data concerning him/her that the data subject for the execution of a contract
has provided, to the extent and for as long as the personal data is necessary for the execution of that agreement,
erased[…]” (The Disputes Chamber underlines).

Decision on the substance 02/2021 - 23/26

relevant
 

would

are

for

the

legality

by

the

processing.

119. The Disputes Chamber is not aware of a clear request from the complainant for its rights
exercise on data portability, prior to the complainant's complaint to the
Data Protection Authority of March 5, 2020. Although there are oral requests to this effect
counsel for the complainant, there is no evidence of a previous request.
 

120. On April 14, 2020, the second defendant was notified that
a file with the Data Protection Authority, and the second defendant received an injunction
of the Disputes Chamber (in accordance with Decision 14/2020 pursuant to Article 95, §1, 5° WOG) to
to comply with the complainant's request to exercise its right to data portability
at
to practice.
 

121. By the annulment of the Decree by the Marktenhof, the order of the
Dispute room dated. April 14, 2020 nullified. As a result, there was no longer a
direct obligation on the second defendant to comply with the request of
the complainant, as the second defendant was only indirectly aware of the request,
and also opposed the implementation of this right to data portability, as evidenced by
the appeal against Decision 14/2020 at the Market Court, and the defense in the proceedings at
ground
Dispute room.
 

the

Bee

122. There is therefore currently no direct request from the complainant with regard to the second
defendant, nor is there an order of the Disputes Chamber with regard to the second
defendant, which would oblige the second defendant to comply with
the
GDPR.
 

article

complainant

by

sentence

20

the

in

123. In addition, it appears from the file that the management rights to the fan page have meanwhile (since 22 April
facebook.

transferred

became

complainant

by means of

at

the

2020)
 

124. Since the contested Facebook fan page has already been transferred to the complainant, there is de iure no
infringement of Article 20(1) of the GDPR. However, it is apparent from the conduct of the second defendant that
that it would not have complied properly with the complainant's request under
by
legal provision.
 

aforementioned

125. For example, the second defendant made it to the fan page after becoming aware of Decision 14/2020
“offline” (meaning that the fan page continues to exist, but becomes invisible to users
of Facebook), before the management rights were transferred by Facebook to the complainant.
In the proceedings on the merits before the Disputes Chamber, the defendant also argues that, pursuant to
Article 20(4) GDPR, the request of the data subject did not have to be complied with.
 

126. For all the foregoing reasons, the Disputes Chamber considers it necessary to
to warn that it must take the necessary measures to ensure that it is legally correct
to give effect to the exercise of the rights of data subjects, and in particular the right
to transferability, when those data subjects submit a request to him to that effect.

 

 
 

Decision on the substance 02/2021-24/26

 
4. Infringements

 

on

the

GDPR

127. The Disputes Chamber considers infringements of the following provisions by the second defendant

proven:

a. Art. 6 (1) GDPR, having regard to the second defendant unlawfully

processing the complainant's personal data via the contested Facebook fan page;

b. Article 21, paragraph 1 j° Article 12, paragraph 3 GDPR, in view of the second defendant no effect
indicated that the complainant's right to object was exercised and not sufficient
took measures to ensure that communication with the complainant, as a result of the exercise of
its rights, in the proper form and in a timely manner.
 

128. The Disputes Chamber considers it appropriate to impose an administrative fine amounting to

of 10,000 Euros (Article 83, paragraph 2 GDPR; Article 100, §1, 13° WOG and Article 101 WOG).

 
129. Taking into account Article 83 AVG and the case law17 of the Marktenhof, the motivation
fine in concrete terms:

administrative

a

by

Litigation room imposing
 

a. The

the

by

seriousness

infringement:
The violated provisions are at the heart of the General Regulation
Data protection, in particular the lawfulness of the processing and
rights of data subjects. Infringe the aforementioned Articles 6 and 21 GDPR
give rise to the highest administrative fines in accordance with Article 83(5)
GDPR.
 
It is not acceptable to the Disputes Chamber that commercial interests in principal
of the second defendant would in any way prejudice the rights conferred by the
the complainant draws on Articles 12 to 22 of the GDPR.
 
When assessing the file by the Disputes Chamber, it is striking that a
constructive and transparent communication, let alone cooperation, between the complainant
and the second defendant does not seem possible. This has at least an indirect effect on
the complainant's commercial interests, without her having any control over this.
 
The fact that the complainant's personal data were, as it were, 'mixed' with
works belonging to the second defendant on the fan page on Facebook, may
be blamed on the complainant. Also, the fact that the second defendant
fan page used for professional contact with customers, should not get in the way
to the rights and freedoms of the complainant. In addition, the second defendant
had sufficient time to take the necessary measures in order to
remove or move, respectively, to customers or other professional partners
contact and delete conversations with them.
 

b. The duration of the infringement:

                                                

17 Brussels Court of Appeal (Market Court section), X t. GBA, Judgment 2020/1471 of 19 February 2020.

Decision on the merits 02/2021 - 25/26

The second defendant cannot indicate a valid basis18 for the legality
of the processing of the complainant's personal data in accordance with Article 6,
Paragraph 1 GDPR after the termination of the obligations between it and the complainant on November 3rd
2019. This means that the unlawful processing of personal data during
took place for more than 5 months, until Facebook transferred the fan page to the complainant
end of april 2020.
 
For the determination of the infringement of Article 21(1) of the GDPR, the Disputes Chamber previously
already indicated that the second party did not act on time (cf. Article 12(3) of the GDPR)
defendant to the complainant's request, which by definition makes the infringement too long
lasted.
 

c. The necessary deterrent effect to prevent further infringements:

The second defendant misbalances its own commercial
claims and rights regarding the protection of personal data of the complainant.
This indicates a failure to recognize the importance of the legislation
regarding
personal data protection, whereby the Disputes Chamber has an administrative
monetary sanction is deemed necessary.
 

The Disputes Chamber points out that the other criteria of art. 83.2. AVG in this case are not of nature
that they lead to an administrative fine other than that imposed by the Disputes Chamber in the context of
of this decision.

 

 

 
130. On December 23, 2020, the Disputes Chamber prepared a form for response against a

transfer the intended fine to the second defendant, whereby they were notified
that the Disputes Chamber intended to impose a fine of 10,000 . on the second defendant
EUR to be imposed. The defendant was thereby given the opportunity to express its opinion on the
special circumstances of the case, the amount of the intended fine and its
own financial capacity.

 
131. Given the importance of transparency in the decision-making of the

Disputes Chamber, this decision is published in accordance with Article 100, §1, 16° WOG
on the website of the Data Protection Authority omitting the
identifiers of the parties, as those identifiers are not necessary and
relevant to the publication of the decision.

 

 

                                                

18 It is up to the controller to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of the GDPR,
pursuant to Article 5(2) of the GDPR.

 

Decision on the substance 02/2021 - 26/26

FOR THESE REASONS,
 
the Disputes Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation:
 

a. on the basis of Article 100, §1, 1° WOG to lodge the complaint against the first defendant
dismiss it, given that the first defendant does not appear to be a controller
are in accordance with Article 4(7) GDPR for the facts that are the subject
of the present complaint;

b. pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 2, a) GDPR and Article 100, §1, 5° WOG the second
warn the defendant that they have exercised the right to data portability (Article
20 (1) GDPR) of the complainant. The request to exercise that right
exercise was raised in the complaint, and the Disputes Chamber is of the opinion that the
second defendant would have to comply with the request should the second
defendant still or again have the administrative rights of the fan page.
Through the intervention of another controller (Facebook), who
transferred administrative rights to the complainant, this request is, however, without purpose
become;

c. pursuant to Art. 58, paragraph 2, point i) j° Art. 83 GDPR and Art. 100, § 13°
and 101 WOG to impose an administrative fine of EUR 10,000 on the
second defendant for the infringement of Article 6(1) of the GDPR on account of the unlawful
processing personal data by holding management rights on a
Facebook fan page bearing the complainant's surname and first name, and for the
infringement of Article 21, paragraph 1j° Article 12, paragraph 3 GDPR due to incorrect and late
comply with the complainant's request to exercise its right to object
to practice.

 
Against this decision, pursuant to art. 108, §1 WOG, appeals must be lodged within a
period of thirty days, from the notification, to the Marktenhof, with the
Data Protection Authority as Defendant.
 
 
 
 
Hielke Hijmans
Chairman of the Disputes Chamber

 

 

 

 

 

 

