  Monday, September 28th, 2020 2: Press releases Second term for the state commissioner for data protection Marit Hansen On June 18, 2020 Marit Hansen was unanimously re-elected by the Schleswig-Holstein state parliament as state commissioner for data protection. Today, September 28, 2020, Prime Minister Daniel Günther presented her with the certificate of appointment. More than three months lie between the election and the usually prompt appointment by the prime minister. The long duration is due to the fact that the Schleswig-Holstein Administrative Court, which was appealed to by a competitor, first had to review the procedure. The result is clear: the court saw no reason for objection, the state regulations are in line with the requirements of European law. The procedure went correctly, so that Marit Hansen could be appointed today. Marit Hansen, the old and new State Commissioner for Data Protection in Schleswig-Holstein, is pleased: "Now I can start my second term in office. In the next six years we will experience a significant surge in digitization. This is always associated with risks, but also with opportunities. That is why it will be particularly important to ensure that digitization is organized fairly and that takes data protection into account right from the start. "Privacy by design" is no longer just a non-binding recommendation, but a mandatory requirement of the General Data Protection Regulation. In practice, however, there is still a problem here.” The workload of Hansen's office, the Independent State Center for Data Protection (ULD), is heavy. “Every day we receive numerous complaints from affected persons, which we have to investigate. Data protection issues must be clarified. Time and again, companies and authorities report data breaches to us when personal data has fallen into the wrong hands. Here we need even more professionalization among processors,” says Hansen. But it is just as important to her that the sometimes complex rules of data protection law are made understandable and, above all, that those responsible on site can implement them in a simple manner. In Hansen's view, manufacturers and providers of products or services should contribute more by making data protection compliance the standard. The appointment of the re-elected state commissioner for data protection falls on a special day: It is the "Right To Know Day", the international freedom of information day. Hansen comments: “My department and I are not only responsible for data protection, but also for access to information held by public authorities. In terms of transparency, the state of Schleswig-Holstein is already on the right track, but the authorities can do even better." Hansen not only advocates "data protection by design", but also sees great potential in "freedom of information by design". . She explains: "Skillful design of the processes and information technology systems does not have to lead to contradictions here, but can combine these requirements. Then it will also be easier to handle: both for those who make inquiries and for the employees in the authorities who decide on access to information establishment law ULD). The tasks of the State Commissioner for Data Protection are laid down in particular in Article 57 of the General Data Protection Regulation, in the State Data Protection Act and in the Schleswig-Holstein Information Access Act. The term of office of the State Commissioner for Data Protection is six years. The procedure for election and appointment is regulated in Section 5 of the ULD Establishment Act. The decision of the Schleswig Administrative Court of August 19, 2020 - 12 B 36/20 can be found here: https://uldsh.de/12-B-36-20 If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: news, press releases, ULDArticles with similar topics: E-prescription Procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure