1/3

 File No.: EXP202100274

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated July 6, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against COMMUNITY OF OWNERS *** COMMUNITY.1,
(hereinafter, the claimed party). The grounds on which the claim is based are
following:

“presence of video-surveillance cameras in public spaces” without just cause
confirmed, “not considering the explanations of the respondent to be valid” (folio nº 1).

It is attached as documentary evidence (camera photographs) that prove the

their presence and the presumed orientation towards an adjacent rural road.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in fe-
date 07/08/21, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
cough in the data protection regulations.

THIRD: On August 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
clamant.

FOURTH: On 12/27/21, a written statement is received from the claimed statement.
stating that you have been mistakenly notified of an Initiation Agreement that does not correspond
with the reality of the facts object of the claim.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

23

On 12/27/21, this Agency received a letter from the respondent stating
Obvious “error” in the Start Agreement dated 12/01/21.

Confirmed the same when the Start Agreement of another procedure was notified.
sanctioning proceeding processed by this Agency proceeds to leave without effect the same
through this act.

The claimed entity was associated with sanctioning procedure no.
***PROCEDURE.1 Community of Owners ***COMMUNITY.1, although it is
established B.B.B. as claimed by computer error.

Article 109 section 1 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following:

“Public Administrations may revoke, as long as the
the limitation period, its encumbrance or unfavorable acts, provided that such re-
vocation does not constitute a dispensation or exemption not permitted by law, nor is it contrary to
ria to the principle of equality, the public interest or the legal system.

The revocation can be given for reasons of legality, in the event that the act is valid.
nullity or voidability, but also for reasons of opportunity.

Therefore, it proceeds to leave it without effect, ordering the actions
necessary for the beginning of a new sanctioning procedure where the
the facts, which will be notified to the parties by this body, as there has been no
duced the prescription of the facts that are the object of the claim.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: Agree on the REVOCATION of the Startup Agreement of this Agency dated
12/01/21, annulling the administrative act in question.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
***COMMUNITY.1 and INFORM the complaining party A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/3

administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-100322

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

