  Tuesday, October 2, 2018 2: Press releases No rip-off with data protection - don't fall for the fax from the "Data Protection Information Center" Since October 1, 2018, numerous inquiries have been received by the Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein (ULD): The inquirers have received an "urgent FAX message" from a so-called "data protection information center" in which they are urged to fill out a form, allegedly in order to comply with the legal obligation to implement data protection. Marit Hansen, the Schleswig-Holstein State Commissioner for Data Protection, makes it clear: "The "Data Protection Information Center" is not an official body or even a supervisory authority. In the fax, the companies are urged to enter their company and company data in a form and to inform this "data protection information center". The false impression is given that this ensures compliance with data protection requirements. The catch is in the small print: By submitting the form, you order services for “basic data protection” for a fee – €498.00 is then due annually. What is meant by "basic data protection" is unclear. One looks in vain for a telephone number, the website contains hardly any information, and the fax sender is apparently based in Malta and not – as suggested in the letter – in Germany. That's not serious!” The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein appeals to the recipients of this fax not to fill out the form prematurely and accidentally conclude a contract. Hansen makes it clear: "It is unfortunate when data protection is misused as a scam and attempts are made to take advantage of the awareness that many people have of the subject of data protection. I recommend using the materials available on the websites of the data protection authorities and - if necessary - consciously selecting service providers for advice and action on data protection compliance." Further information on the ULD website: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/dsgvo / https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/dokumentation/ If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstr. 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
Email: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de">mail@datenschutzzentrum.de