61 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  21/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  of  the  Netherlands  regarding  the 
approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification body pursuant to Article 43.3 (GDPR) 

 

 

Adopted 

Adopted on 23 July 2020 

 

1 

Table of contents 

1 

2 

3 

4 

 

 

Summary of the Facts ..................................................................................................................... 4 

Assessment ..................................................................................................................................... 4 

2.1 

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision ............................... 4 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB Guidelines) 
that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be assessed consistently: ........... 5 

2.2.1 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 6 

2.2.2 

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION ........................................................... 6 

2.2.3 

RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................ 7 

2.2.4 

PROCESS REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................... 8 

2.2.5  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS ....................................................................... 9 

2.2.6 

FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS ......................................................................... 9 

Conclusions / Recommendations ................................................................................................... 9 

Final Remarks ............................................................................................................................... 10 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1c), (3) - (8) and Article 43 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereafter “GDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, 

Whereas: 

(1)  The main  role  of  the  Board  is to  ensure  the consistent  application of the  Regulation 2016/679 
(hereafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Article 64.1 GDPR, the 
Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to approve the requirements 
for the accreditation of certification bodies pursuant to Article 43. The aim of this opinion is therefore 
to create a harmonised approach with regard to the requirements that a data protection supervisory 
authority or the National Accreditation Body will apply for the accreditation of a certification body. 
Even though the GDPR does not impose a single set of requirements for accreditation, it does promote 
consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions firstly by encouraging SAs to 
draft their requirements for accreditation following the structure set out in the Annex to the EDPB 
Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies, and, secondly by analysing them using a template 
provided by EDPB allowing the benchmarking of the requirements (guided by ISO 17065 and the EDPB 
guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies). 

 (2)  With  reference  to  Article  43  GDPR,  the  competent  supervisory  authorities  shall  adopt 
accreditation requirements. They shall, however, apply the consistency mechanism in order to allow 
generation of trust in the certification mechanism, in particular by setting a high level of requirements. 

(3)  While  requirements  for  accreditation  are  subject  to  the  consistency  mechanism,  this  does  not 
mean that the requirements should be identical. The competent supervisory authorities have a margin 
of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take into account their local 
legislation. The aim of the EDPB opinion is not to reach a single EU set of requirements but rather to 
avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect, for instance trust in the independence or expertise 
of accredited certification bodies. 

(4) The “Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General 
Data  Protection  Regulation  (2016/679)”  (hereinafter  the  “Guidelines”),  and  “Guidelines  1/2018  on 
certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with article 42 and 43 of the Regulation 
2016/679”  will serve as a guiding thread in the context of the consistency mechanism. 

 (5) If a Member State stipulates that the certification bodies are to be accredited by the supervisory 
authority, the  supervisory authority  should establish accreditation  requirements  including,  but  not 

                                                           

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

3 

Adopted 

limited to, the requirements detailed in Article 43(2). In comparison to the obligations relating to the 
accreditation of certification bodies by national accreditation bodies, Article 43 provides fewer details 
about the requirements for accreditation when the supervisory authority conducts the accreditation 
itself. In the interests of contributing to a harmonised approach to accreditation, the accreditation 
requirements used by the supervisory authority should be guided by ISO/IEC 17065 and should be 
complemented by the additional requirements a supervisory authority establishes pursuant to Article 
43(1)(b). The EDPB notes that Article 43(2)(a)-(e) reflect and specify requirements of ISO 17065 which 
will contribute to consistency.2  
  
(6) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64 (1)(c), (3) & (8) GDPR in conjunction 
with Article 10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after 
the  Chair  and  the  competent  supervisory  authority  have  decided  that  the  file  is  complete.  Upon 
decision of  the  Chair,  this period may  be  extended  by  a  further  six  weeks  taking  into  account  the 
complexity of the subject matter.  

HAS ADOPTED THE OPINION: 

1  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS  

1. 

2. 

The  Dutch  supervisory  authority  (hereinafter  “NL  SA”)  has  submitted  its  draft  accreditation 
requirements under Article 43 (1)(b) to the EDPB. The file was deemed complete on 28 May 2020. The 
NL national accreditation body (NAB) will perform accreditation of certification bodies to certify using 
GDPR  certification  criteria.  This  means  that  the  NAB  will  use  ISO  17065  and  the  additional 
requirements set up by the NL SA, once they are approved by the NL SA, following an opinion from 
the Board on the draft requirements, to accredit certification bodies. 

2  ASSESSMENT 

2.1  General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted draft decision 

The purpose of this opinion is to assess the accreditation requirements developed by a SA, either in 
relation to ISO 17065 or a full set of requirements, for the purposes of allowing a national accreditation 
body or a SA, as per article 43(1) GDPR, to accredit a certification body responsible for issuing and 
renewing certification in accordance with article 42 GDPR. This is without prejudice to the tasks and 
powers of the competent SA. In this specific case, the Board notes that the NL SA has decided to resort 
to  its  national  accreditation  body  (NAB)  for  the  issuance  of  accreditation,  having  put  together 
additional requirements in accordance with the Guidelines, which should be used by its NAB when 
issuing accreditation. 

3. 

This assessment of NL SA’s additional accreditation requirements is aimed at examining on variations 
(additions  or  deletions)  from  the  Guidelines  and  notably  their  Annex  1.  Furthermore,  the  EDPB’s 

                                                           

2 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-
documents/retningslinjer/guidelines-42018-accreditation-certification-bodies_en  
 

Available 

par. 

39. 

at: 

Adopted 

4 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Opinion  is  also  focused  on  all  aspects  that  may  impact  on  a  consistent  approach  regarding  the 
accreditation of certification bodies.  

It should be noted that the aim of the Guidelines on accreditation of certification bodies is to assist 
the SAs while defining their accreditation requirements. The Guidelines’ Annex does not constitute 
accreditation requirements as such. Therefore, the accreditation requirements for certification bodies 
need  to  be  defined  by  the  SA  in  a  way  that  enables  their  practical  and  consistent  application  as 
required by the SA’s context.  

The Board acknowledges the fact that, given their expertise, freedom of manoeuvre should be given 
to NABs when defining certain specific provisions within the applicable accreditation requirements. 
However,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  stress  that,  where  any  additional  requirements  are 
established, they should be defined in a way that enables their practical, consistent application and 
review as required. 

The Board notes that ISO standards, in particular ISO 17065, are subject to intellectual property rights, 
and therefore  it  will not make  reference  to the text  of the related document in this Opinion. As a 
result,  the  Board  decided  to,  where  relevant,  point  towards  specific  sections  of  the  ISO  Standard, 
without, however, reproducing the text. 

Finally, the Board has conducted its assessment in line with the structure foreseen in Annex 1 to the 
Guidelines (hereinafter “Annex”). Where this Opinion remains silent on a specific section of the NL 
SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it should be read as the Board not having any comments and 
not asking the NL SA to take further action.  

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the NL SA, which are outside the scope of article 
43 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

2.2  Main points of focus for the assessment (art. 43.2 GDPR and Annex 1 to the EDPB 
Guidelines) that the accreditation requirements provide for the following to be 
assessed consistently: 

a.  addressing all the key areas as highlighted in the Guidelines Annex and considering 

any deviation from the Annex. 

b. 

independence of the certification body 

c.  conflicts of interests of the certification body  

d.  expertise of the certification body 

e.  appropriate safeguards to ensure GDPR certification criteria is appropriately applied 

by the certification body 

f.  procedures for issuing, periodic review and withdrawal of GDPR certification; and 

g.  transparent handling of complaints about infringements of the certification. 

 
Taking into account that: 

9. 

Adopted 

5 

a.  Article  43  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  certification  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article 43 (3) GDPR provides that the requirements for accreditation of certification bodies 

shall be approved by the competent Supervisory Authority;  

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for certification bodies and may decide to conduct the 
accreditation of certification bodies itself; 

d.  Article  64  (1)  (c)  GDPR  provides  that  the  Board shall issue  an  opinion where  a supervisory 
authority intends to approve the accreditation requirements for a certification body pursuant 
to Article 43(3);  

e. 

If accreditation is carried out by the national accreditation body in accordance with ISO/IEC 
17065/2012, the additional requirements established by the competent supervisory authority 
must also be applied;  

f.  Annex 1 of the Guidelines on Accreditation of Certification foresees suggested requirements 
that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply during the accreditation 
of a certification body by the National Accreditation Body; 

the Board is of the opinion that: 

2.2.1  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

The Board acknowledges that the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements include a section on terms 
and definitions. However, some of the terms are not used consistently throughout the document (e.g. 
“object of evaluation” and “ToE”, the “accreditation body” and “RvA”, the term “CB” is not used in the 
text, the text sometimes refers to “the competent supervisory authority” instead to the “NL SA”...). 
Additionally, the Board considers that, when referring to the ISO 17065, the relevant section should 
be mentioned. Whereas this is the case sometimes (e.g. sections 7.3, 7.5, 7.6, 7.7 and 7.9 of the NL 
SA’s draft requirements), it is not consistent throughout the document (e.g. sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.6, 6.2, 
7.1, 7.2, 7.4 and 7.8 of the NL SA’s draft requirements do not mention the relevant sections of ISO 
17065). The Board encourages the NL SA to ensure that the terms used are consistent and that the 
references to the ISO 17065 are clear.  

11. 

The  Board  notes  that  some  sections  of  the  Annex  are  missing  (e.g.  section  9.3.2  of  the  Annex 
“Documentation of evaluation activities”). The Board understands that, in those cases, no additional 
requirements were formulated. However, for the sake of clarity, the Board encourages the NL SA to 
either add the missing sections or include a statement at the beginning of the draft requirements, 
clarifying  that,  when  some  sections  are  missing,  it  means  that  no  additional  requirements  were 
formulated.  

2.2.2  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION  

12. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  last  paragraph  of  subsection  4.1.1  of  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements (“Legal responsibility”) refer to investigations or regulatory actions “in relation to the 
subject matter of the ToE which may mean they do not meet this requirement and therefore might 
prevent their accreditation.” The Board considers that the reference to the subject matter of the ToE 

6 

Adopted 

is not  entirely  correct  in  this  case,  since the requirement  is  related  to  the  accreditation  of  the 
certification bodies and not to their certification activities. Therefore, the Board encourages the NL SA 
to delete the said reference in the last part of the requirement. 

13. 

 With  regard  to  subsection  4.1.2  of  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“Certification 
agreement”), the Board notes that point 6 does not include all the elements of point 8 of the Annex 
In particular, “the necessary precautions for the investigation of complaints” are missing. The Board 
recommends the NL SA to include the missing information from the Annex.  

14.  Additionally, the Board is of the opinion that point 7 of subsection 4.1.2 regarding the obligation of 
the  applicant  to  inform  the  certification  body of  relevant  infringements  of  the GDPR or  the  UAVG 
should be clarified. The Board considers that this obligation should not lead to self-incrimination and, 
therefore,  the  obligation  should  refer  to  infringements  established  by  the  NL  SA  and/or  judicial 
authorities. Thus, the Board recommends the NL SA make such clarification. Moreover, in order to 
avoid  confusion,  the  Board  encourages  the  NL  SA  to  clarify  that  “relevant  infringements”  refer  to 
infringements of the GDPR or the UAVG that may affect certification.   

15.  Regarding  point  9  of  subsection  4.1.2,  the  Board  notes  the  inclusion  of  a  reference  to  the 
consequences for the data subjects. However, the NL SA omitted a reference to [where applicable] 
“the consequences for the customer should also be addressed”, as stated in the Annex. The Board 
therefore recommends the NL SA to replace the term with “customer”, in order to align the wording 
with the Annex. 

16.  With regard to section 4.3 (“Liability and financing”) of the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, 
the Board notes that, in accordance with the Annex, the certification body shall demonstrate  on a 
regular basis that it has the appropriate measures to cover its liabilities. The NL SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements do not include the notion of “regular basis” and, therefore, the Board recommends the 
NL SA to include such reference, in line with the Annex.  

17. 

18. 

The  Board  notes  that  section  4.3  of  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  contains  the 
obligation to having adequate financial resources  to demonstrate how the fines, that may be imposed 
under article 83(4)(b) GDPR, will be paid. The Board considers that this specific reference to the fines 
under  GDPR  may  lead  to  some  difficulties  in  practice,  especially with  regard  to  the  assessment  of 
compliance with the requirements. Thus, the Board encourages the NL SA to reconsider the specific 
reference  to  fines  under  GDPR,  taking  into  account  the  potential  practical  difficulties  that  such 
reference may imply.   

The Board notes that section 4.6 of the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Publicly available 
information”)  includes  the  obligation  to  demonstrate  the  publication  of  the  approved  criteria  and 
“high-level  explanations  about  the  certification  procedures”.  The  Board  notes  that  a  “high-level” 
explanation  may  not  be  enough  to  provide  the  information  required  in  the  Annex.  Therefore,  the 
Board encourages the NL SA to add that “meaningful” explanations will be provided.  

2.2.3  RESOURCE REQUIREMENTS  

19.  Concerning certification body personnel (section 6.1 of the NL SA’S draft accreditation requirements), 
the Board notes that the requirements follow the Annex. In this respect, the Board is of the Opinion 
that, with regard to the expertise of the certification body, the emphasis should be put on the different 
type of substantive expertise and experience. Specifically, the Board considers that the competence 
requirements for evaluators and decision-makers should be tailored taking into account the different 
7 

Adopted 

tasks that they perform. In the Board’s opinion, evaluators should have a more specialist expertise 
and professional experience in technical procedures (e.g. audits and certifications), whereas decision-
makers should have a more general and comprehensive expertise and professional experience in data 
protection. Considering this, the Board encourages the NL SA to redraft this section taking into account 
the  different  substantive  knowledge  and/or  experience  requirements  for  evaluators  and  decision-
makers. 

20.  Additionally, the Board notes that, with regard to personnel with legal expertise, the Annex requires 
a specific educational background or significant professional experience. This last reference is missing 
in  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements.  The  Board  recommends  the  NL  SA  to  add  such 
reference.  

21.  Moreover, regarding the educational requirements for personnel with technical expertise, the Annex 
refers to “a qualification in a relevant area of technical expertise to at least EQF level 6 or a recognised 
protected title (e.g. Dipl. Ing.) in the relevant regulated profession”. The Board notes that the NL SA’s 
draft accreditation requirements do not include the reference to a recognised protected title in the 
relevant regulated profession and recommends the NL SA to include such reference.  

2.2.4  PROCESS REQUIREMENTS  

22.  Regarding section 7.2 (“Application”) of the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes 
that point 4 includes the obligation to “disclose any current or recent AP investigation or regulatory 
action to which the applicant is subject”. The Board is of the opinion that the obligation should be 
tailored to investigations or regulatory actions related to the scope of the certification and the target 
of evaluation. Therefore, the Board encourages the NL SA to clarify that the investigation or regulatory 
action should be related to the scope of certification and the target of evaluation.   

23.  With  regard  to  section  7.4  (“Evaluation”),  point  3,  the  Board  considers  that  the  reference  to  the 
requirements “as set out in the criteria” seems to presuppose that the criteria are complete. While 
acknowledging that the NL SA has used the wording of the Annex, the Board encourages the NL SA to 
refer to “the adopted criteria”, in order to avoid confusion. 

24. 

The  Board  notes  that  the  second  paragraph  of  section  7.6  of  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements (“certification decision”) includes the obligation to submit the draft approval to the NL 
SA, prior to issuing or renewing certification. Based on the explanations provided by the NL SA, the 
Board understand that the intention of this requirement is to increase transparency and it does not 
entail a supervision of the draft approval. The Board encourages the NL SA to include a clarification in 
that sense.  

25.  With  regard  to  section  7.10  of  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“Changes  affecting 
certification”),  the  Board  notes  that  the  first  bullet  point  includes  “any  personal  data  breach  or 
infringement  of  the  GDPR”.  The  Board  considers  that,  in  order  to  avoid  self-incrimination,  the 
reference should be to infringements established by the NL SA or the competent judicial authority. 
Additionally, the reference to “any data breach” seems quite broad. The Board is of the view that such 
reference should be further developed, in order to clarify whether minor data breaches should also 
be  reported.  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  NL  SA  to  change  the  wording,  by  referring  to 
“established” infringements and clarify the meaning of “any data breach”.  

Adopted 

8 

26. 

27. 

The Board notes that the first sentence of section 7.11 is not formulated as a mandatory requirement. 
The Board encourages the NL SA to replace the word “should” by “shall”, to make clear that it is an 
obligation. Additionally, the Board notes that the obligation to inform about measures taken is also 
towards the NAB, as stated in the Annex. The Board recommends the NL SA to add such reference to 
the NAB. 

Finally, section 7.13 of the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Complaints and appeals”), states 
the obligation to inform the complainant of the progress  and the outcome of the complaint within 
one  month  of  receipt  of  the  complaint.  Whereas  transparency  towards  complainants  is  of  great 
importance, the Board considers that a strict obligation to provide the complainant the outcome of 
the complaint in one month may create unrealistic expectations and pose a high challenge for the 
certification body. Therefore, the Board encourages the NL SA to redraft the requirements by stating 
that the certification body has to inform the complainants of the progress or the outcome within one 
month of receipt of the complaint.  

2.2.5  MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

28.  With  regard  to  section  8  of  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  (“Management  system 
requirements”), the Board notes that the obligation of the certification body to disclose to the NL SA 
the  management  principles  and  their  documented  implementation  during  the  accreditation 
procedure is not foreseen. The Board recommends the NL SA to amend the draft requirements, by 
including such obligation, as stated in the Annex. 

2.2.6  FURTHER ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS 

29. 

Section 9.3.2 of the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements (“Management of complaint handling”) 
does not include the obligation to share with the NL SA relevant complaints and objections, as stated 
in the Annex. The Board recommends the NL SA to include such obligation.  

3  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

30. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Dutch Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of certification bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

31.  Regarding ‘general requirements for accreditation’, the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

1)  add the missing information from the Annex references in point 6 of subsection 4.1.2. 

2)  clarify in point 7 of subsection 4.1.2 that the the obligation of the applicant to inform the 
certification  body  of  relevant  infringements  of  the  GDPR  or  the  UAVG  should  refer  to 
infringements established by the NL SA and/or judicial authorities. 

3)  replace  in  point  9  of  subsection  4.1.2  the  term  with  “customer”,  in  order  to  align  the 

wording with the Annex. 

4)  include in section 4.3 the reference to the notion of “regular basis”, in line with the Annex. 

32.  Regarding ‘resource requirements’, the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

Adopted 

9 

1)  add  in  section  6.1  the  reference  to  significant  professional  experience  with  regard  to 

personnel with legal expertise 

2)  add, in the educational requirements for personnel with technical expertise, a reference 

to a recognised protected title in the relevant regulated profession.  

33.  Regarding ‘process requirements’, the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

1)  add in section 7.11 the obligation to inform the NAB about measures taken, in line with 

the Annex. 

34.  Regarding ‘management system requirements’, the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

1)  include in section 8 the obligation to disclose to the NL SA the management principles and 

their documented implementation during the accreditation procedure. 

35.  Regarding ‘further additional requirements’, the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

1)  include in subsection 9.3.2 the obligation to share with the NL SA relevant complaints and 

objections, as stated in the Annex  
 

4  FINAL REMARKS 

36. 

This  opinion  is  addressed to the  Dutch  Supervisory Authority  and  will  be  made  public  pursuant  to 
Article 64 (5)(b) GDPR. 

37.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the NL SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft list. Within 
the  same  period,  it  shall  provide  the  amended  draft  list  or  where  it  does  not  intend  to  follow  the 
opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to follow this 
opinion, in whole or in part.  

38. 

The NL SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board  

The Chair  

(Andrea Jelinek) 

Adopted 

10 

