1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00264/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated January 20, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against BAZTANDIS, S.L. with CIF B71006605 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are "deficiency in the signage
information on video-surveillance” (page No. 1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

presence of the poster(s) with reference to the LOPD.

SECOND: On 02/15/21, the claim is TRANSFERRED so that
the claimed party shall express in law what it deems appropriate, without answering
any has occurred.

THIRD: On 04/23/21 the claim is admitted for processing
by the Director of this AEPD, in accordance with article 65 LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: On June 24, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5
of the GDPR.

FIFTH: On 07/19/21, a “Resolution Proposal” is issued confirming
the infringement of art. 13 RGPD, by not having modified the signage in the terms re-
Dear friends, proposing a sanction encrypted in the amount of €1,000 (one thousand euros).

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 01/20/21 through the
which is transferred "deficiency in the informative signage in the matter of video-surveillance"
(folio no. 1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

presence of the poster(s) with reference to the LOPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

Second. BAZTANDIS, S.L. is accredited as the main person in charge. with CIF
B71006605.

Third. When the database of this AEPD was consulted on 07/14/21, there is no evidence
no regulation whatsoever, nor has the signage been regularized in terms of
deo-surveillance.

Fourth: It is proven that the informative poster mentions a regulation de-
requested (LOPD) not having an effective address before which to exercise the co-
corresponding rights within the framework of the current LO 3/2018, December 5.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

On 01/20/21 a claim is received through which the character is transferred
"obsolete" of the informative poster of the video-surveillance zone of the claimed, which refers to
It limits the repealed LOPD (LO 15/99).

On May 25, 2018, the European Protection Regulation entered into force.
Data (RGPD) that establishes the rules related to the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and the rules relating to
the free movement of such data.

Those responsible for the treatment must inform prior to the collection of data
personal cough. The way of informing the interested parties must be adapted to the type of
behavior and characteristics of the medium used to collect data.

The art. 13 RGPD increases the information that must be provided to the interested party.

do, when the data is obtained from it.

“When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the person responsible
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide you with all the information
training listed below:

a.

b.
c.

the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
sitting;
the contact details of the Data Protection Delegate, where appropriate;
the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
ca of treatment;

d. when the treatment is based on article 6, section 1, letter f) (Legitimate interest)

timo), the legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

and.

the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, in
Their case; (…)”.
The art. 22 section 4 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) provides:

“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative site a connection code or internet address to this information. In
In any case, the data controller must keep available to those affected
two the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation”

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding
sanctioning party, it is considered that the defendant has not proceeded to adapt the signage in
matter of video-surveillance to the regulations in force, indicating the person responsible for the treatment.
effective management and direction to that effect for the exercise of the rights of the RGPD.

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the claimant.

mado, for violation of the content of art. 13 GDPR.

IV

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
EUR 000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.
to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

When motivating the sanction, the following is taken into account:

- the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question, as well as
the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages suffered
fried; (art. 83.2 a) RGPD).

- the intent or negligence in the infringement; (art. 83.2 b) RGPD), given the
time elapsed since the entry into force of the RGPD, the lack of attention in the
adaptation of video-surveillance posters.

For all these reasons, a penalty of €1,000 is agreed for the in-
fraction of art. 13 RGPD, a sanction located on the lower scale for this type of infringement.
tions.

v

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2
d) it is established that each control authority may “order the person in charge or
of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions
of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within
a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

The party claimed, together with the sanction imposed, must prove the change
cash of the posters with photography (date and time) being the same homologated
to current regulations.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE BAZTANDIS, S.L., with CIF B71006605, for an infraction
of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €1,000
(A thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BAZTANDIS, S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

