1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00414/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

 MUNICIPAL INSTITUTE OF CONSUMPTION OF *** PROVINCE.1 (in
FIRST:
hereinafter, the claimant) on June 26, 2020 filed a claim with the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the non-compliance of the website ***URL.1 to
lack of Privacy Policy.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/06539/2020, transfer of
said claim to the claimed, on August 14, 2020, to proceed to
its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the actions carried out
carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations for the protection of
data, with no response to date.

THIRD: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

Said investigative actions have revealed that there is no link to
the Privacy Policy or equivalent document.

The only contact information that appears on the website is the telephone number for
contract the different services.

Required from TELEFONICA DE ESPAÑA, S.L.U. ownership of said number
telephone, dated November 6, 2020, this Agency receives a response to the
requirement indicating that the owner of the line is A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FOURTH: On August 26, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the
claimant.

FIFTH: The agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure was notified to the
claimed on February 19, 2021, but he has not issued any allegation in the
deadline given for it.

SIXTH: The agreement to initiate this procedure, in accordance with articles
64.2.f) and 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (LPACAP), becomes a proposal for
resolution by not making the claimed allegations within the indicated period.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The web page object of this claim collects personal data of the
people who fill out the contact form, and despite this said web page lacks
of privacy policy.

SECOND: On August 14, 2020, this Agency requires the claimed person to
within a month, carry out the necessary actions to adapt to the
requirements set forth in the data protection regulations, without receiving a response to the
aforementioned requirement.

THIRD: On February 19, 2021, the agreement to start this
procedure, becoming the same in resolution proposal in accordance
with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (LPACAP), by not carrying out the
claimed allegations within the indicated period.

FOURTH: The privacy policy of the website ***URL.1 indicates the following:

“In ELECTRICISTAS XXXXX, sensitized with the needs of users of
Internet and aware of the importance of the rigorous privacy of information
entrusted to us, we include this privacy statement in order to
that you are aware of the policy in the treatment of personal data that
you get from your visitors and users.

As a user, you accept these conditions by the mere fact of reading, viewing or
browse the site. If you do not accept them, you must leave the site, without making any use
of it and its content, and without accessing the linked pages.

RESPONSIBLE FOR DATA PROCESSING

The owner of the site and responsible for data processing is A.A.A., with DNI ***NIF.1,
to contact you can use the email address ***EMAIL.1, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

phone ***TELEPHONE.1 or mail to C/ ***ADDRESS.1 of ***LOCALITY.1,
*** PROVINCE.1.

PURPOSE OF DATA PROCESSING

On our websites, there are specific sections where you can write down your
data to receive information about updates to our website and some of the
programs that are distributed. We assure you that the information you give us
facilitates will be managed in a totally confidential manner.

The data will be stored as long as there is a forecast of its use for the purpose for which
were collected.

No automated decision-making is carried out with your data.

The website may use cookies, see our cookie policy.

LEGITIMATION OF DATA PROCESSING

The use of your data is done because you give us your consent to use what we
you provide in the forms for a specific use that is indicated in each of
they. Your data is only necessary for the specific uses for which you are
request, if you do not provide them to us, these services are not possible.

TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNMENTS OF DATA

There is a firm commitment on our part that the data you provide to
ELECTRICISTAS XXXXX, will not be sold or transferred to third parties without the
prior consent of the interested party under any concept or circumstance, except
express consent or legal obligation.

The data included in the comment form will be processed by Automattic
Inc., domiciled in the USA in order to filter spam in the comments.
You can consult the privacy policy of Automattic Inc..

Our website contains links to third party websites. ELECTRICIANS
XXXXX is not responsible for the privacy policies and practices of these
other places.

RIGHTS OF INTERESTED PARTIES

You have the right to access the information that is stored about you
in our databases, rectify it if there is any error, delete it, limit it,
oppose their treatment and withdraw your consent if that is your wish. For it
you just have to write an e-mail to the e-mail address ***EMAIL.1
where we will gladly assist you with any query, comment or clarification
required in this regard.

For more information on related topics, the Web reference site
Spanish is the Data Protection Agency, where you have the right to claim.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), under the rubric
“Definitions”, provides that:
“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;
2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”
Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal through forms included in a web page constitutes a treatment
of data, with respect to which the data controller must comply with the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that has moved since May 25
of 2018 to article 5 of the Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of Protection
of Personal Data.
In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, it has:
  “1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.
3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:
"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.
2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:
a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.
b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
IV
By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.
Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"
(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”
“i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;"
Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD establishes that:
 “The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

the largest amount:

a) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”
In turn, article 74.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
mild has:
  “They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:
a)
Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right
of information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the articles
13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”
v

In this case, it has been found that the website ***URL.1 did not have a Privacy Policy.
Privacy but it has been verified that it has recently been updated.
Despite this, it should be noted that the sanction of warning for the
personal data that was collected without adequately informing customers, which
which is constitutive of an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD. However, it will be a
sanction of warning without the need to adopt measures by the defendant,
because it has already been proceeded by this to the generation of a privacy policy
adequate.

SAW

This infraction is sanctioned with a warning, in accordance with article 58.2.b)
of the RGPD, when collecting through said form basic data of the users and
consider that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with the provisions of
Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
claimed, whose main activity is not directly linked to the treatment of
personal data, since there is no record of the commission of any previous infraction in
matter of data protection.

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 From
In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

