1/12

 File No.: PS/00205/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT
VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 17, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against A.A.A. (onwards,
the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00205/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On July 9, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agrees to initiate investigative actions in relation to the
facts described below:
On July 8, 2020, this Agency became aware of the dissemination, through
of social networks, of a video showing images of an assault by
part of a man to a woman, which could constitute a crime of domestic violence.
gender. The video also shows images of a young male minor, who
intervenes in the scene trying to avoid the aggression that was taking place.
This video is accessible, at least, through the following URLs:
***URL.1
***URL.3

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

The second of them is a re-tweet of the first. In the first, the accompanying message
ña the dissemination of the video is as follows:
“Yesterday in Éibar, sexist violence was shown in the middle of the street. The aggressor finished her off
yelling in front of his son. He has been arrested. Minimum 80,000 women a year in our
another country live in this situation. To deny violence is to help the aggressor with each blow.”
The video reviewed has also been disseminated by the media, although
This disclosure has been made prior to pixelation that prevents the identification of the
physical sounds that appear in it.

SECOND: In view of the facts of which this Agency has become aware,
The Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out actions
preliminary investigations to clarify the facts in question, in virtue of
tude of the powers of investigation granted to the control authorities in the article
57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation,
hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I,
Second section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

The following extremes are noted:

- On July 23, 2020, the events were transferred to the Attorney General's Office
of the State for its knowledge and opportune effects.
- It is verified that at the beginning of these investigative actions the tweets continue to
showing the videos. In them it is verified that in certain frames
could identify the minor and his mother.
- On July 27, 2020, Ms. A.A.A. is requested, through the City Council,
of Palma de Mallorca, to report on the origin of the published video and the reason
for which the faces of the minor and the victim had not been pixelated. With date of
On July 29, 2020, a reply is received to the request presented by its representative.
indicating that the origin of the video is a tweet from Don B.B.B., at the address:
***URL.2.
It adds that no manipulation of the video images was previously made
already published since he understood he was limited to sharing an image already published with
anteriority. It ends by indicating that, after reviewing the images, they are not considered to be
have the appropriate quality and perspective to be able to identify the participants of
better way than in the case of pixelated partial faces appearing in it.
supper
- Examining the profile of the owner of the origin of the video on the social network TWITTER, it was observed
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

Note that it works as XXXXXXXX of XXXXXXXX in ***LOCATION.1. Reali-
ced request for identification of this owner to that Provincial Council, a reply is received
to the request providing the data of the same.
- On January 27, 2021, a precautionary measure is issued to withdraw the twee-
ts outlined below, sent by international certified mail to TWI-
TTER INTERNATIONAL COMPANY (hereinafter TWITTER, headquartered in Ireland). I don't know
is certain that the precautionary measure has been delivered at destination.
- ***URL.2
- ***URL.1
- ***URL.3
At the same time, the same day that the aforementioned precautionary measure was sent
in the previous paragraph, the withdrawal was requested through the established web form
for this Agency by those responsible for the TWITTER platform.
- Dated March 1, 2021, it is verified that the tweets of Doña A.A.A. Y
by Don B.B.B. now appear as sensitive content disabling their display
automatically, being necessary to manually select its visualization.
- Dated March 23, 2021, a letter sent by TWITTER is received manifests-
While the Tweets seem to have shared the video to raise awareness about
violence perpetrated against women. As such, Twitter believes that Tweets are fueled
align with Twitter's mission to serve the public conversation, share informa-
tion instantly and without barriers. This includes sharing information that may be of interest to you.
public interest. When people share information of public interest on Twitter
tter, the general public benefits, as it offers them access to information that
can be difficult to obtain or learn. It also allows for public discussion around
to topics and issues of public interest such as violence against women. After
Upon review, Twitter determined that the content does not violate Twitter's Terms of Service.
Twitter, the Twitter Privacy Policy, or the Twitter Rules, and will not be removed from
the platform.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each Authori-
Control Authority, and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: «The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the dissemination of the video object of this
procedure is in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

In the first place and referring to the publication by Doña A.A.A. of the indicated video
in the background, article 6.1 of the RGPD, establishes the assumptions that allow
consider the processing of personal data lawful:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation

applicable to the data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or of

another natural person.

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the controller or by a third party, provided that on
such interests do not override the interests or rights and freedoms
fundamental data of the interested party that require the protection of personal data, in
particularly when the interested party is a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to

treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

On this question of the legality of the treatment, it also affects the
Recital 40 of the aforementioned RGPD, when it states that "For the
processing is lawful, personal data must be processed with the consent
of the interested party or on any other legitimate basis established in accordance with Law, either
either in this Regulation or by virtue of other law of the Union or of the
Member States covered by this Regulation, including the need to
comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller or the need to
to execute a contract to which the interested party is a party or in order to take measures
at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of a contract.»

In relation to the above, it is considered that there is evidence that the treatment
of data of the people that appears in the images object of this procedure,
a minor and his mother, has been carried out without legitimizing cause of those collected in the
article 6 of the RGPD.

The GDPR applies to personal data, which is defined as “personal data”:
any information about an identified or identifiable natural person ("the data subject");
an identifiable natural person shall be considered any person whose identity can be
be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as
for example a name, an identification number, location data, a
online identifier or one or more elements of physical identity,
physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person.

Both the minor and his mother, whose data has been processed by Doña A.A.A., are identifiable.
since your identity can be determined, directly or indirectly.

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to issue a warning -article 58.2 b)-, the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD
-article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the exposed facts do not comply with what is established in the
article 6.1. of the RGPD, for which it could suppose the commission of an infringement
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

““Infringements of the following provisions shall be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious and prescribes after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”

v

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j).

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aforementioned Regulation provides in its art. 58.2 b) —without prejudice
of what is established in article 83 RGPD - the possibility of directing a warning,
in relation to what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, without prejudice to what results from the investigation, they have taken into account
In particular, consider the following elements.

 That it is the dissemination of data on the image of a woman who is

being beaten and her youngest son who comes to help her.

 That it is an individual whose main activity is not linked to the

processing of personal data

 That there is no recidivism, because there is no record of the commission of any

offense of the same nature.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the penalty that should be applied is €10,000.
(Ten thousand euros).

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
appropriate measures to adjust their actions to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to the
which each control authority may "order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period[…]”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period determined:

 Remove the video posted at ***URL.1, or pixelate the images to prevent

Identification of the minor and his mother.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, according to the above,

By the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, IT IS AGREED-

GIVES:

FIRST: START A PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against Ms. A.A.A., with NIF
***NIF.1, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1, typified in article 83.5 of the
same legal text

SECOND: APPOINT C.C.C. and, as secretary, to D.D.D., indi-
stating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions
ed in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the documents
Documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
during the investigation phase, as well as the report of previous actions of the
pection.

FOURTH; THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1-
tubre, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be €10,000, without prejudice to what results from
The instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to Ms. A.A.A., granting her a term of
hearing of ten business days to formulate the allegations and present the evidence
bas that it considers convenient. In your statement of allegations you must provide your NIF and
the procedure number that appears in the heading of this document.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
set at €8,000 (eight thousand euros), resolving the procedure with the
imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €8,000 (eight thousand euros), and its payment will imply the
termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at €6,000 (six thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, you must make it effective by depositing it in account no.
ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the heading
of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which it avails itself.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the date of
page of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement. elapsed
that term will produce its expiration and, consequently, the filing of actions; of
in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

935-200320

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

SECOND: On June 21, 2021, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 6,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed
against said Regulation; violations of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of 9
May, General de Telecomunicaciones (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the
provided in article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles
38.3 c), d) and i) and 38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the
information society and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), according to
Article 43.1 of said Law provides.

SECOND: Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP),
under the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the
Next:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00205/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

936-280621
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

