1/12

 Procedure No.: PS/00389/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 04/23/2019 the LOCAL POLICE of the BADAJOZ CITY COUNCIL
Filed a complaint against the OUTSIDER LABOR PREVENTION SERVICE
EXTREMEÑA, S.L. (hereinafter the defendant), for alleged infringement of the
regulations on the protection of personal data, when finding scattered on the ground,
next to a company vehicle Extremeña Labor Prevention Service,
SL
medical examination reports dated 12/02/2010 relating to
workers of the company Aguas del Suroeste, S.L.

SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 05/18/2019, reiterated on 05/30/2019, the claimant was transferred the
claim submitted for analysis and communication to the claimant of the decision
adopted in this regard. Likewise, he was required so that within a month
send certain information to the Agency:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

On the same date, the claimant was informed of the receipt of the

claim and its transfer to the claimed entity.

On 10/22/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit the claim for processing
filed by the claimant against the respondent.

THIRD: On 02/24/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement for the alleged infringement of articles 32.1, 33 and 34 of the RGPD,
sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD,
considering that the sanction that could correspond would be a WARNING.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

FIFTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 04/23/2019 you have entry in the AEPD official of the LOCAL POLICE of the
CITY COUNCIL OF BADAJOZ by which it transfers the Act of complaint against the
EXTREMEÑA LABOR PREVENTION SERVICE, S.L. (hereinafter the
claimed), for alleged infringement of data protection regulations
personal, when found scattered on the ground, next to a company vehicle
External Labor Prevention Service Extremeña, S.L. reconnaissance reports
doctors related to workers of the company Aguas del Suroeste, S.L.

SECOND: A copy of the record of the complaint made by the Police has been provided
Badajoz City Hall No. 10735 indicating: "They are scattered throughout the
ground, next to a company vehicle External Occupational Prevention Service
Extremeña, S.L., medical examination reports dated 12/02/10”,
continuing: “The aforementioned medical reports are related to workers of the
company Aguas del Suroeste, S.L. Photocopies of the same are attached.

As a precautionary measure, it is indicated by the Police: "These reports are withdrawn from the road."

THIRD: Copies of the "Reports of the medical examination
Ordinary Periodic practiced in the Occupational Medicine Area of the Service of
Prevention on December 2, 2010 a”, relating to two workers of the
company Aguas del Suroeste, S.L.

FOURTH: The respondent has not responded to any of the requirements
formulated by the AEPD; nor has it made allegations to the agreement to start the
penalty procedure.

 

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of
December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

(hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:
a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what results
of instruction.

c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with

express indication of the system of recusal of the same.

d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attributes such competence, indicating the possibility that the alleged perpetrator
can voluntarily acknowledge its responsibility, with the effects provided for in the
article 85.

e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those
may adopt during the same in accordance with article 56.

f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in the event
not to carry out
allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the agreement
of initiation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a
precise statement about the imputed responsibility.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
the interested".

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

III
Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

(…)”

The RGPD establishes in article 5 of the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them that of "integrity and
confidentiality”.

The article notes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

 
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

In turn, the security of personal data is regulated in articles

32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD.

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
 
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

Article 33 of the RGPD, Notification of a breach of the security of the

personal data to the control authority, establishes that:

"1. In case of violation of the security of personal data, the
responsible for the treatment will notify the competent control authority of
accordance with article 55 without undue delay and, if possible, no later than 72
hours after you become aware of it, unless it is unlikely
that said breach of security constitutes a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons. If the notification to the control authority does not have
place within 72 hours, must be accompanied by an indication of the reasons for
the procrastination

2. The person in charge of the treatment will notify the person in charge without undue delay
of the treatment the violations of the security of the personal data of which
be aware.

3. The notification referred to in section 1 must, at a minimum:

a) describe the nature of the data security breach
including, where possible, the categories and number
approximate number of stakeholders affected, and the categories and approximate number
of affected personal data records;
b) communicate the name and contact details of the data protection delegate
data or another point of contact where further information can be obtained;
c) describe the possible consequences of the breach of the security of the
personal information;
d) describe the measures adopted or proposed by the person responsible for the
processing to remedy the data security breach
including, if applicable, the measures taken to mitigate the
possible negative effects.

4. If it is not possible to provide the information simultaneously, and to the extent

where it is not, the information will be provided gradually without undue delay.

5. The data controller will document any violation of the
security of personal data, including the facts related to it, its
effects and corrective measures taken. Such documentation will allow the
control authority verify compliance with the provisions of this article.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

And article 34, Communication of a breach of data security

data to the interested party, establishes that:

"1. When the data security breach is likely
entails a high risk for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical data, the data controller will communicate it to the interested party without delay
improper.

2. The communication to the interested party contemplated in section 1 of this
article will describe in clear and simple language the nature of the violation of the
security of personal data and will contain at least the information and
measures referred to in article 33, section 3, letters b), c) and d).

3. The communication to the interested party referred to in section 1 will not be

required if any of the following conditions are met:

a) the data controller has adopted technical protection measures
and organizational measures and these measures have been applied to the data
affected by the violation of the security of personal data,
in particular those that make personal data unintelligible for
anyone who is not authorized to access them, such as encryption;
b) the data controller has taken further steps to ensure
that there is no longer the probability that the high risk for the
rights and freedoms of the interested party referred to in section 1;
c) involves a disproportionate effort. In this case, you will choose instead
by a public communication or similar measure by which it is reported
equally effectively to stakeholders.

4. When the person in charge has not yet communicated to the interested party the
violation of the security of personal data, the control authority, once
Considering the probability that such a violation involves a high risk, it may require
to do so or may decide that any of the conditions mentioned in
section 3”.

IV

In the present case, it is proven that on 04/23/2019 the LOCAL POLICE
of the CITY COUNCIL OF BADAJOZ provided a copy of the Act of complaint against the
claimed, in which the infringement of the regulations on the protection of
personal data, when found scattered on public roads and next to a vehicle of your
ownership reports of medical examinations relating to workers of the
company Aguas del Suroeste, S.L. containing sensitive data and especially
protected and proceeding the aforementioned forces of order to remove them from public roads
as a precautionary measure.

On the other hand, the lack of sensitivity of the respondent to
the aforementioned facts since it did not respond to the requests for information
made by the AEPD, nor did he respond by submitting a written statement at the beginning of
sanctioning procedure agreement and that, in addition, has the purpose of promoting the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

safety and health of workers through the development of activities
necessary and convenient for the prevention of work-related risks.

It should be noted that the GDPR defines data security breaches
personal as “all those security violations that cause the
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data,
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to
said data”.

From the documentation in the file, there are clear indications of
that the claimed party has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when there was a breach of
security in your systems by allowing and providing access to data
related to medical examination reports dated 12/02/2010 of
workers of the company Aguas del Suroeste who were scattered throughout the
I usually.

The RGPD in the aforementioned precept does not establish a list of security measures.
security that are applicable in accordance with the data that is the object of
treatment, but establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment
apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved
the treatment, taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability
and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and
proportionate to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the measures
technical and organizational information must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and
encryption, the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
resiliency, the ability to restore availability and access to data after a
incident, verification process (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the
effectiveness of the measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate
the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as
encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

As indicated previously and in the framework of the file of
investigation ***FILE.1 the AEPD transfer to the claimed on 05/18/2019 and the
05/30/2019 the claim submitted for analysis requesting the contribution of
information related to the claimed incidence, without it having been received in this
body any response.

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the bankruptcy of
security revealed by the Local Police of the City Council of Badajoz, since
who is responsible for making decisions aimed at effectively implementing
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security
appropriate to the risk to ensure the confidentiality of the data, restoring its
availability and prevent access to them in the event of a physical or technical incident.
However, the documentation provided shows that the entity has not only
breached this obligation, but also the adoption of measures to the
respect, despite having notified him of the claim filed.

The RGPD also regulates in its article 33 the notification of violations of
security that may pose a risk to the rights and freedoms of
natural persons to the competent control authority, which in the Spanish case is
of the AEPD.

Therefore, whenever data of a nature is affected in a breach
personnel of natural persons must notify the AEPD and, in addition,
we must notify it within a maximum period of 72 hours from when we have
awareness of the gap.

Lastly, it must be added that having been informed of the incident of
There is also no information on security that he had adopted measures aimed at
remedy it, once he became aware of it.

As there is no evidence that, in accordance with what is stated in the
Article 34 had informed the interested parties of the violation of the security of the
personal data without undue delay once you became aware of them.

In accordance with the foregoing, the respondent would be responsible for the
RGPD violations: the violation of articles 32, 33 and 34, violations
all of them typified in its article 83.4.a).

The violation of articles 32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD are typified

in article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

v

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,

11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.

(…)”

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements

considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance with
required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

r) Failure to comply with the duty to notify the data protection authority
data of a breach of security of personal data in accordance with the
provided for in article 33 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

s) Failure to comply with the duty to notify the affected party of a violation of
the security of the data in accordance with the provisions of article 34 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 if the data controller had been required
by the data protection authority to carry out such notification.

The facts revealed in the claim are specified in the
existence of a security breach in the systems of the claimed party allowing the
vulnerability of the same by allowing reports dated 12/02/2010 relating to
medical examinations and belonging to workers of the company Aguas del
Southwest, were scattered on public roads and allowing access to data
contained in them.

All this constitutes a violation of the security of personal data.

which constitutes an infringement of articles 32.1, 33 and 34 of the RGPD.

However, article 58.2 of the REPD provides the following: "Each authority
of control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)”

The RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates in its
article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the treatments
personal data that do not meet your expectations.

In the case at hand, it has been proven that the defendant did not
has applied technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security
capable of guaranteeing the confidentiality, integrity, availability of the
data preventing access; appropriate measures to proceed with the notification in case
of a violation of the security of personal data and the procedure
implemented in the event that the violation of the security of personal data
entails a high risk for the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

The respondent has not responded to the request for information made

by the Inspection Service.

7th

At this point, it is necessary to inform that not meeting the requirements
of the Agency may constitute a very serious infringement in accordance with the
indicated in article 72 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes: “1. Depending on what
established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

(…)
ñ) Failure to facilitate access by data protection authority personnel
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority for the
exercise of its investigative powers.

o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the

competent data protection authority.

(…)”

At the same time, notification of the start agreement and after the term granted

to formulate allegations, I do not present any writing.

As indicated previously, it has been proven that the defendant
has not adopted technical and organizational measures that guarantee a level of
adequate security capable of ensuring the confidentiality, integrity and availability
of the data avoiding its access, loss, etc.; appropriate measures to proceed with the
notification in the event of a personal data breach and the
procedure implemented in the event that the breach of data security
personal entails a high risk for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical..

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

It is necessary to point out that if these incidents are not corrected by adopting the
appropriate technical and organizational measures adapting them to what is indicated in the
articles 32.1, 33 and 34 of the RGPD or reiterate the conduct revealed in
the claim and that is the cause of this procedure, as well as not informing
following this AEPD of the measures adopted could give rise to the exercise of
possible actions before the person in charge of the treatment so that they are applied
effectively the appropriate measures to guarantee and not compromise the
confidentiality of personal data and the right to privacy of
people.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE OUTSIDE LABOR PREVENTION SERVICE
EXTREMEÑA, S.L., with NIF B06307748, for violation of articles 32.1, 33 and 34
of the RGPD, typified in accordance with the provisions of article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD,
a warning sanction.

SECOND: REQUIRE OUTSIDE LABOR PREVENTION SERVICE
EXTREMEÑA, S.L. with NIF B06307748, so that within a month from the
notification of this resolution, prove: the adoption of security measures
necessary and pertinent in accordance with the regulations on the protection of
personal data in order to prevent recurrence in the future
incidents such as those that have given rise to the claim, correcting the effects of the
violation of access to data, adapting the aforementioned measures to the requirements
contemplated in article 32.1 of the RGPD; the measures taken to proceed with
notification in the event of a personal data breach
in accordance with the provisions of article 33 of the RGPD and the procedure implemented to
the event that the violation of the security of personal data entails a high
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, in accordance with the
indicated in article 34 of the RGPD.

THIRD:
EXTREMEÑA LABOR PREVENTION, S.L. with NIF B06307748.

 NOTIFY this resolution to the EXTERNAL SERVICE OF

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

