1/14

 File No.: PS/00175/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 09/17/2018, a written claim entered this Agency
presented by DÑA. A.A.A. (claimant) regarding an alleged violation of the against the
autonomous body RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS FOR THE ELDERLY OF
ASTURIAS (ERA), attached to the MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES,
since 2019 called SOCIAL RIGHTS AND WELFARE.

Considers that Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of natural persons, with regard to the
processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data (hereinafter,
RGPD), because there is documentation of the medical history (HC) of his father, deceased
on 10/2/2016, in two administrative files, that of patrimonial responsibility, requested
by her, in relation to her father's stay in residences: RP XX/2017, and another, the
XX/982, estimating that:

a) In the RP file, there are incorporated three pages of non-interested persons, who
they have nothing to do with the matter.

b) In the RP file, it is included on “Page 19 of the documentation file
Adtva. Part I” “Clinical report” of his father for no reason, since its origin was for a
different purpose.

c) Figure included in the RP on “Page 3 of the Adtva documentation file. Part I",
(subsequently the claimant will refer to page 5 as a correction) a “Health Report” from
his father, of which he provides a copy, dated 06/30/2015, signed by the Geriatrician who
indicates that it is recommended to start a treatment and that “this topic has been previously discussed
with her daughter over the phone, but at that time she considered that the start of treatment
It could do more harm than good." Rate the claimant that was issued without
real knowledge of his father's health, "at the request of the Director of the nursing home" CPRM
***GERIATRIC.1” and did not contain all the data of the clinical information, considering
that hid information. According to the complainant, the purpose of said report was that her
father used a certain medication, confronting that doctor with the usual
“who followed him”.

It states that the report “was already used irregularly in file XX/982 of the ERA
"providing reasons for his expulsion from the center", learning of that purpose was not
legitimacy when he accessed his documents, October 2015. He indicates that after that knowledge,
the "signing geriatrician" himself in January 2016, "offered to make another report

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

amending the previous one”. ”This corrective report was sent to the ERA as an attachment to the
second appeal to file XX/982”.

She states that "As her father's guardian, after his death, she required the return of
all medical reports to the autonomous body ERA dependent on the Ministry of
Services and Social Rights”, “once the reasons for their possession had been finalized”.
“Supposedly, they had been delivered in their entirety in January 2017, although it is deduced from
this RP file that is not so, because they continue to circulate and are used for reasons that
considered illegitimate”, contrary to the purposes of the signatory of the same, since it has been
incorporated again as a basis for the RP XX/2017 file, which is a clone of the
XX/982, omitting however the allegations and the report of the same geriatrician amended
the previous one of January 2016, which confirms its use in bad faith and partiality in the
resolution of the file."

Provides:

-Copy of the document informing the DPD of the facts referred to on 08/31/2018,
in which he expands the reasons why he understands they should not have been incorporated into the
File your father's medical documents. It also refers to the fact that in the data
given in January 2017 by the ERA, (annex two of that letter), "I only have
reports communicated by SESPA, not all of them, as can be verified. Information
generated by the nurses and auxiliaries of the geriatric centers has been denied to me in
practice, I was given a mini report reworked only by the nurses of a
nursing home, despite the approving resolution of the AEPD 2990/2016”. It also refers
alleged irregularities in the processing of the RP file.

- Copy of the letter of ***DATE.1, from the claimant to the claimant, reference to the
AEPD procedure for the protection of rights TD/001652/2016, resolution R 2990/2016,
(in which, according to the claimant, she requested the "return of her entire medical record"),
managed as non-attention to the right of access, resolved on 12/20/2016, "...
You will find at your disposal the required medical history and documentation of the health of your
father, who was listed in the CPRM Multipurpose Resource Center for the Elderly
***GERIÁTRICO.1, so you can remove it”.

In the petitum of the facts of the resolution of the TD, it indicated: "he exercised the right of access
to the medical history of his father in front of the entity ERA- MINISTRY OF WELFARE
SOCIAL AND HOUSING, and declares having only received a report prepared by the
nursing staff. Requires that they be given a copy of the clinical history as well as
as all the reports prepared after your claims regarding the incidents
suffered by his father and the records of incidents corresponding to the auxiliary personnel of
the different CPRs in which his father has been.”

He resolved, specified:

“…ESTIMATE the claim made... and urge the entity MINISTRY OF
SOCIAL WELFARE AND HOUSING so that, within the following ten working days
to the notification of this resolution, send the claimant a certification in which
facilitate full access to the required clinical history and other documentation that
contains data relating to the health of his father, or denies motivated and substantiated
requested access, and may incur in its absence in one of the offenses provided for in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

Article 44 of the LOPD. The actions carried out as a result of this
Resolution must be communicated to this Agency within the same period.”

In this regard, it indicates that only reports generated by the
HEALTH SERVICE OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS (responsible for healthcare
healthcare) in January 2017, not all, since the information generated by nurses and
assistants of the geriatric centers has been denied me in practice, "despite the
approving resolution issued by resolution R 2990/2016”, referring to the aforementioned guardianship
of rights TD/001652/2016.

SECOND: On 10/31/2018, a resolution was issued agreeing to the INADMISSION of the
claim in file E/08309/2018, being appealed in replacement by the
claimant, RR 841/2018, expressing, among other reasons:

-Reiterates the issue of incorporating health reports into the file
administrative , the validity of the report of 06/30/2015.
-It highlights "the violation of the right to cancel health data in
power of ERA”, which was apparently granted to me when they returned most-
that not all-the medical reports, "once the reasons for their
possession by the acquired contract ""since my father had passed away". “Precisely this
report in discord is one of those that has not been returned to me, nor has the report that
rectify it
 
 ”. Neither the report of 06/30/2015, nor the one amended in January 2016
(01/12/2016) had been delivered to him, and that he had not received a response from the transfer
of your letter from the DPD to the Ministry
-Refers to aspects not referred to in the claim such as "the right of rectification that
we have required when my father was alive” has not been granted to us.
It provided among others:
- Copy of the health report of 06/30/2015 and the clinical report of 01/12/2016 that
manifests, rectifies it, and mixing the references to which it provides a copy of the HC of the
"Sabugo Health Center".
-Copy of the letter of 08/23/2018 addressed to the respondent in relation to the instruction of the
RP file of which a copy had been delivered

On XX/02/2019, it is resolved:

“FIRST: DISMISS the motion for reconsideration filed against the Resolution of
this Agency issued on October 31, 2018
SECOND: URGE the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection to analyze
the claim made by the appellant in relation to the neglect of her right
of access, giving it the corresponding procedure.”

THIRD: Said resolution motivated the opening of file E/02410/2019.

In accordance with the mechanism prior to the admission for processing of the claims that are
formulated before the AEPD, provided for in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter,
LOPDGDD), which consists of transferring them to the Protection Delegates of
Data designated by those responsible or in charge of the treatment, or to these when not
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

appointed them, and with the purpose indicated in the aforementioned article, on 03/4 and
05/31/2019, your claim was transferred to the MINISTRY OF SERVICES AND
SOCIAL RIGHTS OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS (hereinafter, the CLAIMANT)
to proceed with its analysis and provide a response within a month.

On 06/18/2019, the respondent states:

a) He acknowledged the erroneous incorporation in the six intercalated pages in the file
RP that did not correspond to the documentation related to it, accepting the
mistake and justifying it as a result of the enormous documentation that formed
part of it -a total of 750 pages-. In ANNEX II, provide a copy of said pages.

b) Regarding the incorporation of the documents of the HC "which is part of the
administrative file”, they consider that it has not breached the regulations, and that it can
be due to the fact that the claimant “does not agree with the content of the documentation of the
file of patrimonial responsibility or with what the internal reports of the
same".

Provides in ANNEX I, a copy of the document index of the RP XX/2017 file
referenced and numbered up to 186, and documentation in number of pages that are added
for each document from that moment, referenced to the procedure described. According to
claimed, are a total of 636 pages. No date of each procedure is attached.

c) Provide a copy of the record of appearance of the claimant's representative on
04/05/2018 for hearing, view and copy of the file, with a copy of the document that
precedes the claim, informing you of the possibility of the hearing process.

d) Provides a copy of the document addressed to the claimant dated 06/10/2019, given that “she has received
official letter from the AEPD…in relation to the claim of 09/14/2018…”, “it is communicated
information in relation to data protection expdte RP XX/2017”. The writing gives
answer to points:

-On three folios as well as their reverses that are not interested in the file and
appear in it.

- Points b and c, referring to the "clinical report" and the "health report", about what did not give
Permission to use for purposes other than providing you benefit through assistance
health, answers are contained in its second and third sections, indicating the
origins of the documents, and that "the clinical report" was provided as "report
mandatory “within the RP procedure, forming part of said file. In
relation to the health report, also explains the origin, and points out that he did not
allegations after the hearing process, being resolved on 10/28/2018.

On date ***DATE.2, after analyzing the documentation that was in the file
E/02410/2019, a resolution was issued by the Director of the AEPD, agreeing to file the
claim.

On date *** DATE.3, the claimant files an appeal for reversal, RR 603/2019 against the
resolution relapsed in file E/02410/2019, in which it shows its disagreement with
the contested decision, arguing the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

That he has not received any communication from the respondent, failing to comply with the

That the requested right of access has not been complied with.
That the claimed party be required to process the right of access to the

-
That the claimed entity does not have a Data Protection Officer,
breaching the provisions of art. 37 of the RGPD, (new element that was not introduced in the
resolution that resolves the file.)
-
provided in art. 65.4 of the LOPDGDD.
-
-
documentation related to the appeal filed.
That the initiation of a sanctioning procedure be agreed.
-
-
And, finally, that the existence of an indemnity be declared in his favor, by virtue of
of the provisions of art. 82 of the RGPD for the moral damage derived from the repeated
violations of law, since the Ministry, suspected of having infringed the
regulations in relation to the care provided to his father and the social protocols and/or
that should have been followed, has never given complete information on
these extremes.
The RR is resolved on 06/11/2020, and is contained in FACTS:

“EIGHTH: According to the records in this Agency, there is evidence
rights protection file TD/01652/2016, which ended with the resolution dated 20
December 2016, by which it was agreed to UPGRADE the claim made... and urge
the entity MINISTRY OF SOCIAL WELFARE AND HOUSING so that it could send to the
claimant certification providing full access to medical history
required and other documentation containing data relating to the health of his father, or
deny motivated and substantiated the requested access, being able to incur in its
defect in one of the offenses provided for in article 44 of the already repealed Law
Organic 15/1999, of December XX, on the Protection of Personal Data.

The RR resolves:
“PARTIALLY UPRESDING the motion for reconsideration filed by…against the resolution
of this Agency issued on date *** DATE.2, in relation to the neglect of the exercise
of the right of access to his father's medical history, rejecting the rest of the
claims made by the appellant, and agree to admit the claim for processing
filed against the MINISTRY OF SERVICES AND SOCIAL RIGHTS OF THE
PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS.”
“On date ***DATE.1, the Managing Director of the RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT
informed the claimant in writing that the required clinical history and
documentation referring to the health of his father, -which appeared in the CPRM Center
***GERIÁTRICO.1 in ***LOCALIDAD.1-, was available for withdrawal at the
administrative dependencies of said Center. “
On 03/01/2017, the AEPD required ERA, MINISTRY OF SOCIAL WELFARE AND
HOUSING, to send the claimant a certification complying with the
resolution dated 12/20/2016. No response was obtained.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

On 03/02/2017, also associated with that TD 1652/2016, a document from the
claimant about inconsistencies in the documentation received regarding their integration and
scarcity, "giving the feeling that it is information reworked from the original", "the
information responds to 6% of the total time spent in the two establishments of the
ERA, with 12% of the time spent in the ***GERIÁTRIC.1 CRPM and 0% in the
CRP ***GERIATRIC.2”. Accompanying a letter dated 02/27/2017, addressed to ERA with the title
“Written errata on omitted and defective clinical documentation” of his father
"delivery of the records of the ERA TD 1652/2016" in which he asks to vary a note of a
date.

FOURTH: The admission to process of the RR initiates the procedure TD 00099/2020, resolved
on 10/5/2020:

“ESTIMATE the claim made … and urge the MINISTRY OF SERVICES AND
SOCIAL RIGHTS OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS with NIF S3333001J, so that,
Within ten business days following notification of this resolution,
send to the complaining party a certification stating that the right has been met
of access exercised by it or deny it with reasons, indicating the reasons why it does not
proceed to respond to your request. The actions carried out as a result of this
Resolution must be communicated to this Agency within the same period. breach
of this resolution could lead to the commission of the offense considered in article
72.1.m) of the LOPDGDD, which will be sanctioned, in accordance with art. 58.2 of the GDPR.”

As there was no response from the respondent, two requests were made, on 11/30/2020,
and 01/04/2021, indicating:

“Once the term granted for the required actions to be carried out has elapsed,
in said resolution without this Agency having been aware of them and having
received in writing from the complaining party requesting compliance with the resolution of the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, the MINISTRY OF
SERVICES AND SOCIAL RIGHTS OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS so that:

1.- Within five business days, send the claimant a certification of the
compliance with the referenced resolution in the terms described therein.

2.- Within ten business days, notify this Agency of the measures adopted in
compliance with the requirement made in the previous point.

You are informed that, failing that, it could lead to the commission of the offense considered
in article 72.1.m) of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights, which will be sanctioned in accordance with art.
58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation).”

No response was obtained.

FIFTH: On 08/24/2021, the Director of the AEPD agreed:

“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against the MINISTRY OF SERVICES AND
SOCIAL RIGHTS OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS, with NIF S3333001J, by the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

alleged infringement of article 83.6 of the RGPD, with an established limitation period
in article 72.1.m) of the LOPDGDD for three years as it is considered very serious.”

"For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the
sanction that could correspond would be a warning.”

No claims are received.

SIXTH: On 10/5/2021, a written document from the claimant is recorded:

"To complete the documentation of the file, the document is attached (appeal of
raised) cited in my complaint, with which the administration denounced had been urged to
rectify the document that they have been using illegally.”

It is a letter addressed to the Ministry of Social Welfare and Housing, dated
entry to the Principality on 01/19/2016, appeal against the resolution of 12/15/2015,
of the Managing Director of the ERA who agrees to the forced transfer of her father to the center
intergenerational in Oviedo.

SEVENTH: On 12/27/2021, a letter is received from the claimant in which with the title:
“allegations are referred to the letter of 12/30/2020 of the offending administration present in
the referred file”, contains the following:

- With reference to TD/00099/2020, to which "on 12/3/2021 he had access", continues
without fulfilling the right of access to assistance documentation by the
ERA staff, since they have not even received a response in this regard.

“Among the documentation of the TD, there is a letter dated 12/30/2020 signed by the
-
responsible for the ERA data, folio 699 and 700, that "they have not sent me, which says
that by virtue of the applicable regulations the minimum term for the
suppression of a clinical report in the history”, reference 29729/2020, indicates that “the
answer has nothing to do with the object of the file TD/99/2020 initiated by
violation of compliance with the right of access and not of deletion”, “I reiterate the request
for the sanctioning file to be initiated carried out on 04/16/2021, folios 707 and 708 of the
proceedings).

EIGHTH: On 03/28/2022, a resolution proposal was issued for the literal:

"That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is sanctioned with
warning to the MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND WELFARE OF THE
PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS, with NIF S3333001J, for an infringement of article 83.6 of the
RGPD, typified in article 72.1.m) of the LOPDGDD. The measure that the
claimed as determined in article 58.2.c) of the RGPD is to attend to the right after the
reiterated requirements of this AEPD.”

No claims were received.

PROVEN FACTS

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

1) The claimant files a claim with the AEPD on 09/17/2018, considering that with
the data of her father, of whom she was a guardian, who died on 10/2/2016, the
data protection regulations by the ERA (ESTABLISHMENTS
RESIDENTIAL HOMES FOR THE ELDERLY OF ASTURIAS, attached to the MINISTRY OF
SOCIAL RIGHTS AND WELFARE OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS

The claimant considers in her claim that, on the one hand, various clinical and
Your father's health reports have been incorporated into two administrative procedures: the
RP XX/2017, of patrimonial responsibility for abnormal operation of the
Administration requested by her, in relation to her father's stay in residences, and
a previous one, XX/982, in which, although the year is not specified, the claimant stated
who accessed his documents in October 2015.

2) The second aspect that the claimant considers in her claim is that she exercised the
right to “return all medical reports to the ERA” verifying that the AEPD
resolved as a right of access not addressed his claim, in the guardianship procedure
of rights TD/001652/2016, resolution R/2990/2016 of 12/20/2016, estimating its
request and requiring will facilitate "full access to the required medical history and other
documentation containing data relating to the health of his father, or deny reasoned and
substantiated the requested access”, now also stating the claimant in
09/17/2018, that despite the fact that on ***DATE.1, the respondent sent the answer, missing
documents. In addition, it asserts that the data has not been canceled because it was incorporated into
the administrative records reviewed.

On 03/01/2017, the AEPD required ERA, MINISTRY OF SOCIAL WELFARE AND
HOUSING, to send the claimant a certification complying with the
resolution dated 12/20/2016. No response was obtained.
On 03/02/2017, also associated with that TD 1652, a document from the
claimant about inconsistencies in the documentation received regarding their integration and
scarcity, and missing documents.
3) The claim was not admitted for processing on 10/31/2018, although it was appealed in
replacement, agreeing on date XX/02/2019:

“FIRST: DISMISS the motion for reconsideration filed against the Resolution of this
Agency issued on 10/31/2018.
SECOND: URGE the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection to analyze the
claim made by the appellant in relation to the neglect of her right to
access, giving it the corresponding procedure”. With this, the file E/02410/2019 was opened
in which the claim is transferred to the claimed one and the file is agreed on ***DATE.2
of the claim, which is appealed in an appeal for reconsideration, RR 603/2019, on ***DATE.3 and
that resolves on 06/11/2020: "PARTIALLY ESTIMATE the appeal for
filed by…against the resolution of this Agency issued on ***DATE.2, in
in relation to the neglect of the exercise of the right of access to the medical history of your
father, dismissing the rest of the claims made by the appellant, and agreeing on the
admission to processing of the claim filed against the MINISTRY OF SERVICES AND
SOCIAL RIGHTS OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

4) The admission to process of RR 603/2019 gives rise to the procedure TD 00099/2020,
resolved on 10/5/2020, which resolves:

UPGRADE the claim made … and urge the MINISTRY OF SERVICES AND
SOCIAL RIGHTS OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS with NIF S3333001J, so that,
Within ten business days following notification of this resolution,
send to the complaining party a certification stating that the right has been met
of access exercised by it or deny it with reasons, indicating the reasons why it does not
proceed to respond to your request. The actions carried out as a result of this
Resolution must be communicated to this Agency within the same period. breach
of this resolution could lead to the commission of the offense considered in article
72.1.m) of the LOPDGDD, which will be sanctioned, in accordance with art. 58.2 of the GDPR.”

As there was no response from the respondent, two requests were made, on 11/30/2020,
and on 01/04/2021, for compliance with the resolution, warning of the legal consequences
of the lack of response. The defendant did not meet the requirements.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in Articles XX and 48.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve this
procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures processed
by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Personal data and those related to health are defined in article 4.1 and 4.15 of the RGPD,
What:

“1) personal data: any information about an identified or identifiable natural person
("the interested"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person whose identity
can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as
for example a name, an identification number, location data, an identifier
online or one or more elements of the physical, physiological, genetic,
psychological, economic, cultural or social of said person;

15) personal data relating to the physical or mental health of a natural person, including the
provision of health care services, which reveal information about your health status

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

Health;"
Although the subject of the contribution of documents of the HC to administrative files of
patrimonial responsibility is not an object related to the imputed infraction, since in
the successive resources and files were not admitted for processing or questioned, it must be indicated
that the RGPD and the LOPDGDD qualify data related to health as special data.
protected, establishing a uniquely rigorous regime for obtaining, custo-
all and possible assignment due to the consequences that its improper use would have for the
people
The consequences are considered so harmful that their treatment is prohibited unless
We do not apply an exception of those contained in article 9.2. a-j), being one of
them the: “f) the treatment is necessary for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims
mations or when the courts act in the exercise of their judicial function”, although once
lifted the general prohibition of treatment, there must be some assumption that gives legality to the
treatment. In other words, in addition to the case provided for in article 9.2 f) it must be applicable
tion some legal basis of article 6.1 of the RGPD. In this case, the claimant requested a
procedure of patrimonial responsibility in which it indicates that what is produced is the
incorporation of data from the HC, with which it does not agree.

The incorporation of HC to a file of patrimonial claim supposes a treatment
of personal data, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.2 RGPD, which it considers as such:
any operation or set of operations carried out on personal data or
sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not, such as the
collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification,
extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other
form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction.
Regarding the data of the HC, Law 41/2002, of 11/14, basic regulation of the autonomy of the
patient and rights and obligations regarding information and clinical documentation,
(LAP) points out:
- Article 14.2: “Each center will archive the medical records of its patients, whoever
be it the paper, audiovisual, computer or other type of support in which they are recorded,
that its safety, its correct conservation and the recovery of the
information".
-Article 17.1: “Health centers are obliged to keep the documentation
clinic in conditions that guarantee its correct maintenance and safety, although
necessarily in the original support, for the due assistance to the patient during the
time appropriate to each case and, at least, five years from the date of discharge
of each healthcare process.
Therefore, the HC data is not subject to "return", as it contains data from
assistance and health benefits, nor can claim ownership or ownership of the
HC as such. Therefore, the termination of the contractual relationship cannot imply the
disappearance from the legal world of some reports that contain effects derived from the
assistance benefits for the parties that are documented in said reports.

III

The defendant is charged with the infringement of article 83.6 of the RGPD, which states:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

“Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority in accordance with article 58,
section 2, will be sanctioned in accordance with section 2 of this article with fines
administrative fees of EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

The LOPGDD states in its article 71: "Acts and behaviors to the
referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well
as those that are contrary to this organic law.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD, indicates, among others, the following powers of the authority of
control:

“c) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to attend to the requests for
exercise of the rights of the interested party under this Regulation;”

The unfulfilled resolutions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, are precisely those that
resolved the legal guardianship TD/01652/2016 of 12/20/2016 and TD/00099/2020 of
5/10/2020, expressly indicating in both the warning of the consequences of the
breach of resolution.

The infraction of said article is reflected in terms of its typification for the purposes of
prescription, in article 72.1 m) of the LOPDGDD with the literal in context:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
…

[…]”

“m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the data protection authority
competent in the exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

The absence of a response is accredited in compliance with what is required to the one claimed on
compliance with the resolution of protection of rights occurred up to two times.

IV

Article 58.2 of the RGPD indicates as powers of the control authority:

“c) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to attend to the requests for
exercise of the rights of the interested party under this Regulation;”

Article 83.7 of the RGPD adds:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under article
58, paragraph 2, each Member State may establish rules on whether it is possible, and in what
measure, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established
in that Member State.”

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to fine entities
public, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the LOPDDGG:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

“c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.”

"two. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning
the same with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any."

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
app.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that are not
had been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the sanction is imposed,
will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and order the
publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of
the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
protection of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the graduation criteria
of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: SANCTION with warning the MINISTRY OF SOCIAL RIGHTS
AND WELFARE OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS, with CIF S3333001J, for an infraction
of article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.6 of the RGPD, and in article 72.1 m)
of the LOPDGDD.

SECOND: By virtue of article 58.2.c) of the RGPD that authorizes to "order the person in charge
or in charge of the treatment that attends the requests of exercise of the rights of the
interested in virtue of the present Regulation;” is required so that within fifteen
days address the right object of this claim.

Failure to comply with the provisions could give rise to the exercise of sanctioning power
in accordance with the provisions of article 83.6 of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the COUNCIL OF RIGHTS
SOCIAL AND WELFARE OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS.

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance with
what is established in article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

FIFTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July XX, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

938-100322

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

