1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00422/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 22, 2020, it had entry in this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document presented by C. P. A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
hereinafter, the claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system installed
at ***ADDRESS.1, with indications of a possible breach of the provisions
in the personal data protection regulations.

The claim is based on the fact that the defendant has installed two security cameras
video surveillance outside your home, recording from your door to the hallway
community, without authorization from the Community of Owners.

A photograph is provided where you can see a door with two cameras facing the outside, which
that allows understanding that common areas are captured, and Minutes of the General Meeting of
Owners where the cameras are alluded to, which the respondent acknowledges installing and
He points out that it is to protect himself from acts of neighbors.

SECOND: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 16
November 2020.

THIRD: On March 3, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27,
2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment
of personal data and the free circulation of these data and by which the
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter, RGPD).

FOURTH: On April 02, 2021, this Agency entered the
allegations presented by the respondent, who, in summary, indicates that he installed two
video surveillance cameras for a series of attacks suffered on his person and on his
living place.

However, he states that, after the Community meeting in which they asked him to
remove the cameras, since March 1, 2020 those cameras were disabled,
removing the Wi-Fi connection and thus preventing the recording of images.

Provides two photographs in which a connection error appears on both cameras.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On October 22, 2020, a claim was filed with this Agency
because the defendant has installed two video surveillance cameras outside the
his home, recording from his door to the community corridor, without authorization from
the Community of Owners.

SECOND: It is identified as the main person in charge D. B.B.B. with NIF
***NIF.1, who wields personal and housing security reasons for the
camera installation.

THIRD: The respondent has stated that he has proceeded to disqualify the
cameras after the request made at the Community meeting, providing two
photos in which there is a connection error to both cameras.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

On October 22, 2020, a claim was filed with this Agency because the
claimed has two video surveillance cameras installed outside his
housing, recording from your door to the community corridor, without authorization from the
Community of owners.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides that personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation.

The cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding intimidating
neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control transit areas
of them without just cause.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations, as this is
exclusive jurisdiction of the State Security Forces and Bodies.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

III

On April 02, 2021, a written statement was received from the accused party
by means of which he states that, after the meeting of the Community in which he
they asked me to remove the cameras, since March 1, 2020 those cameras were
disabled, removing the Wi-Fi connection and thus preventing the recording of images.

The art. 22 section 2 of the LOPDGDD provides:

“Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is
essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

Examined the file as a whole, although it is true that at the time of the start
of this sanctioning procedure the cameras installed on the property of the
claimed captured images outside their property, during the period of
allegations, it has been verified, with the contribution of two photographs, that
proceeded to disable them.

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, having examined the modifications of the installed system, the
itself is considered adjusted to law.

Full collaboration with this body is taken into account when carrying out the
precise corrections to avoid affecting the rights of third parties.

The parties are reminded of the importance of the rights at stake and must avoid
instrumentalize institutions in matters beyond their competence,
having to adjust the relationships between them to the minimum requirements of the
good neighbor rules

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, once the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, and taking into account
account that the cameras were disabled during the processing of the
present procedure, the sanction of warning is maintained, since during a
time the camera overrecorded the common areas, although they are not required
complementary measures having been adopted.

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of article 5.1.c)
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of WARNING.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

