1/18

 Procedure PS/00219/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00219/2021, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity to the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION of the Principality
de Asturias, owner and person in charge of the website, ***URL.1, (hereinafter, “the part
claimed"), for alleged infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the Parliament
European and Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of
these Data (GDPR); Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal data and guarantee of digital rights, (LOPDGDD) and the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Information Society and Commerce
Electronic (LSSI), and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 01/09/21, a written claim entered this Agency
presented by D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, "the claimant party"), in which, among others,
it was indicated:

“Administrative infractions typified in
the General Data Protection Regulation (“RGPD”) and in Law 34/2002, of 11
of July, services of the information society and electronic commerce, both
in your privacy policy as well as in the cookie policy

On the other hand, when accessing the website ***URL.1 that is reported, it is verified
that the address is accessed with the "http" security protocol, thus enabling
other users can intercept the information that is transferred from the terminal
from the client to the web server, since the information provided by users is not
transferred securely (encrypted) (...)”.

SECOND: On 02/24/21, this Agency sent a request
information to the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4
of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the protection of personal data and
guarantee of digital rights, (“LOPDGDD”).

THIRD: On 03/15/21, this Agency received a written response from
the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION of the Principality of Asturias (Integrated Center for
Vocational Training of ***LOCATION.1), where it is indicated, among others, that:

1.- We have no record of the reported incident since ***URL.1 has
a privacy policy section and a terms of use section as you can
be checked at:

 ***URL.2
 ***URL.3

However, it is within the possible that due to web updates
some link (links) had been broken momentarily or gave an error.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

2.- The privacy policies, conditions of use, etc. we think they are within
current regulations. Even so, we have explained that the "Privacy Policy" is
adapts to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
04/27/16.

However, the ***URL.1 website does not handle personal or sensitive user information
of this, since it has a merely informative character for the users, of the
activities developed by the Integrated Vocational Training Center ***LOCATION.1 or news
related to vocational training.

3.- The "cookies" used by ***URL.1 are not invasive or harmful, and do not contain
Personal data. However, the user who browses our website is informed
that are used and are asked for your approval, and that you can deactivate them by following
your browser's instructions.

4.- We have proceeded to review these sections of the website ***URL.1.

FOURTH: On 05/05/21, this Agency carried out the following
checks on the web page, ***URL.1:

a).- Regarding the processing of personal data:

1.- Through the existing link at the top of the main page,
<<contact>>, the web redirects to a new page ***URL.4, displaying a
form where you can enter personal data, such as name, email
email and the “subject” that you want to indicate. The form can be sent without
need to have "read and accepted" the privacy policy or legal notice. Does not exist
more than a button with the <<send>> message

2.- Personal data of users can be obtained through the tab <<order
prior appointment>>: (Virtual Headquarters  Virtual Secretary Request an appointment), ***URL.5 , where
personal data such as name, surname, ID, email can be included
and phone number.

The form can be sent without the need to have "read and accepted" the privacy policy.
privacy or legal notice. There is only one button with the message <<send>>

3.- Personal data of web users can be obtained through the
<<work with us>> tab (Campus  Employment Orientation  Work with
us), ***URL.6, where personal data such as name,
Address Phone. You can also attach documents such as the "curriculum vitae".

It should be noted that in this form there is the following message: “Due to the
volume of work and the diversity of areas of action that we cover, we have
our own employment exchange to respond to our needs. If you want
collaborate with us, let us know”.

The form can be sent without the need to have "read and accepted" the privacy policy.
privacy or legal notice. There is only one button with the message <<send>>

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

b).- About the “Privacy Policy”:

1.- Through the link, <<Privacy Policy
 , existing at the bottom of the
main page, the web redirects to a new page, ***URL.2, where it is reported that
the processing of personal data complies with current regulations. Also I know
provides the following information:

 >>

 

“(…) 2. FILES:

By Resolution of May 28, 2003, of the Ministry of Education and Culture,
BOPA Nº 137 - Saturday, June 14, 2003, the automated file "Base de
data from the Unified Administration System for Educational Centers (SAUCE)",
dependent on the current General Directorate of Planning, Centers and
Infrastructures of the Ministry of Education and Science, in the terms and
conditions established in Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on the Protection of
Personal data.

By Resolution of April 11, 2003, of the Ministry of Education and Culture,
BOPA Nº 113 - Saturday, May 17, 2003, treatment files are regulated
automated personal data existing in the Ministry, including the
Integrated Personnel Management System (SIGP), dependent on the current Directorate
General of Human Resources, in the terms and conditions established in the Law
Organic 15/1999, of December 13, Protection of Personal Data.

The purpose of the aforementioned files is to collect all the necessary information regarding
students and staff dependent on educational centers for the management
administrative and educational of schools, ensure reliability and allow its
use by information systems to facilitate effective management.

Cipfcerdeno.com may require knowledge of data contained in said
files to extend its services and resources to the students who attend
official studies in educational centers and the personnel dependent on said
centers.

Cifpcerdeno.com does not have automated files of users and/or personal character, and
therefore, it does not manage or market any type of sensitive information.

By accepting this Privacy Policy you consent to the
sending, by traditional and electronic means, information about the services
of the Ministry of Education of the Principality of Asturias, currently and in the future.
If you wish to revoke this consent, you must communicate it to the following address:
email ***EMAIL.1.

3.- EXERCISE OF RIGHTS

In compliance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
Protection of Personal Data, the User of Cipfcerdeno.com may in
at all times to exercise the different rights that the law recognizes: access,
rectification, cancellation or opposition to the transfer of your data, contained in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

File registered with the Data Protection Agency. The aforementioned rights are
may exercise by contacting the email address:***EMAIL.1.

The acceptance of the User so that their data can be processed in the manner
established in this paragraph, is always revocable, without retroactive effects,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 6 and 11 of Organic Law 15/1999 of 13
december. (…)”.

b.1.- Privacy Policy in the Ministry of Education of the Principality of
Asturias:

For its part, the information offered by the Ministry of Education of the Principality of
Asturias on its website, ***URL.7, on the processing of personal data is
The next:

“The Administration of the Principality of Asturias respects the current legislation on
of protection of personal data, the privacy of the interested parties and the secrecy and
security of personal data, in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
applicable in terms of data protection, specifically, the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, adopting
for this, the necessary technical and organizational measures to avoid the loss, bad
use, alteration, unauthorized access and theft of personal data provided,
taking into account the state of the technology, the nature of the data and the risks.

Users of this portal are informed that their personal data is only
may be obtained for your treatment when appropriate, relevant and not
excessive in relation to the scope and the specific, explicit and
legitimate.

When personal data is collected through any portal of the Administration
of the Principality of Asturias, the user will be previously informed, clearly and
unequivocal, of the following extremes: Existence of data processing of
personal character. The identity and contact details of the person responsible for the
treatment.
The contact details of the Data Protection delegate. The purposes of the treatment
to which the personal data is used and the legal basis of the treatment. The
recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any. In
where appropriate, the intention of the data controller to transfer personal data to
a third country.
The term or criteria for preserving the information. The existence of the right to
request the person responsible for the treatment access to the personal data related to the
interested, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its treatment, the right
to the portability of the data, or to oppose the treatment. Also, the way to
exercise the indicated rights.

When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party. Existence
the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the
legality of the treatment based on the consent prior to its withdrawal. If he
processing is not based on consent, your right to object to the
treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

The right to file a claim with a supervisory authority.

The existence, if any, of automated decisions, including the preparation of
profiles and the exercise of rights associated with such treatment.
The user will be solely responsible for completing the forms
with false, inaccurate, incomplete or outdated data.

Responsible for the treatment: The personal data that could be
collected directly from the interested party will be treated confidentially and will be
incorporated into the corresponding treatment activity owned by the
Administration of the Principality of Asturias.

The updated list of the treatment activities that the Administration of the
Principality of Asturias carries out, it is available in the electronic office at
through the following link ***URL.8.

Purpose: The purpose of data processing corresponds to each of the
treatment activities carried out by the Administration of the Principality of Asturias and
that are accessible in the electronic office through the following link ***URL.8.

Legitimation: The treatment of your data is carried out for the fulfillment of
legal obligations on the part of the Administration of the Principality of Asturias, for the
fulfillment of missions carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
public conferred to the Administration of the Principality of Asturias, as well as when the
purpose of the treatment requires your consent, which must be given
through clear affirmative action.

You can consult the legal basis for each of the treatment activities that
carried out by the Administration of the Principality of Asturias in the following
link ***URL.8.

Data conservation: The personal data provided will be kept
during the time necessary to fulfill the purpose for which they are collected and
to determine the possible responsibilities that could derive from the purpose,
in addition to the periods established in the archives and documentation regulations.

Communication of data: In general, the data will not be communicated
to third parties, except legal obligation, among which may be the
communications to the Ombudsman, Judges and Courts, interested in the
procedures related to the claims filed.

You can consult the recipients for each of the treatment activities that
carried out by the Administration of the Principality of Asturias in the following
link: ***URL.8

Rights of the interested parties: Any person has the right to obtain
confirmation about the treatments of your data that are carried out by the
Administration of the Principality of Asturias. You can exercise your access rights,
rectification, deletion and portability of your data, limitation and opposition to your
treatment, as well as not to be subject to decisions based solely on the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

automated processing of your data, when appropriate, through the Service of
Citizen Attention (SAC) of the Administration of the Principality of Asturias,
submitting the standard form, available at ***URL.8, which you can locate
entering the code 201200088 in the header search engine (located in the
top right of the page), electronically or in person through the
General Central Registry of the Administration of the Principality of Asturias or by
any of the means established in the Law of Administrative Procedure.

Without prejudice to any other administrative recourse or judicial action, all interested parties
You will have the right to file a claim with a Control Authority regarding
of competent Data Protection, if you consider that the treatment of data
that concerns you violates the regulations on data protection
personal”.

c).- About the Cookies Policy:

1.- Upon entering the home page of the web, (first layer), it is verified that without
perform any action or accept cookies, non-necessary cookies are used, both
own as well as third party whose identifiers; domain, description and time
activation are:

_ga:***URL.1. Used to identify users (permanence 2 years).
_gid: ***URL.1. Used to identify users (permanence 2 years).

The following cookies are also used that have not been able to identify whether or not they are
required: ***COOKIE.1; ***COOKIE.2; ***COOKIE.3.

2.- The banner about cookies that appears on the main page provides the following
information:

“The cookies used by cifpcerdeno.com are not invasive or harmful, and do not
contain personal data. However, if you wish, you can disable them.
following the instructions of your browser. <<I accept>>

There is no possibility in this banner to reject unnecessary cookies and
nor any type of link to the second layer or configuration panel of the
cookies.

3.- If you access the "Privacy Policy", through the existing link in the part
bottom of the main page, <<privacy policy>>, the web redirects to a new
page, ***URL.2, where information is provided, in the cookies section, about:
what are cookies and the types of cookies that exist but are not provided
information nor are the cookies used by the page identified.

On how to manage cookies, the page refers the user to configuring the
browser installed on your terminal equipment, not existing, on this page, any
mechanism that allows you to reject all cookies or manage them in a granular way.

FIFTH: On 05/07/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreement is issued to admit the processing of the complaint

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

filed by the claimant, in accordance with article 65 of the Law
LPDGDD, when appreciating possible rational indications of a violation of the norms in
the scope of the powers of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

SIXTH: In view of the facts denounced and the evidence observed in the
website, dated 06/22/21, by the Board of Directors of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, it is agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the party
claimed, directing a warning for:

-

-

-

Violation of article 32.1) of the RGPD, punishable in accordance with the provisions of
the art. 83 of the aforementioned standard, due to the lack of adoption of the technical and
organizational measures that are appropriate to guarantee a level of security
appropriate to the risk of processing personal data.

Violation of article 13) of the RGPD, punishable in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 83 of the aforementioned rule, due to the lack of information that must be offered to
users of the website when their personal data is obtained.

Violation of article 22.2) of the LSSI, punishable in accordance with the provisions of
the art. 39) and 40) of the aforementioned Law, regarding its “Cookies Policy”.

SEVENTH: Notification of the initiation agreement to the claimed party, the latter in writing
dated 07/06/21, made, in summary, the following allegations:

Given the exposed facts, the considerations and actions that the
effect has been carried out by the Integrated Center for Vocational Training of
***LOCATION.1:

1.- Through the existing link at the top of the main page,
<<contact>> a form was displayed where data could be entered
personal, such as the name, email and the "subject" that you want to indicate.
The form has been withdrawn.

2.- Personal data of web users can be obtained through the
tab <<work with us>>. The form has been withdrawn.

3.- About the Privacy Policy and the Cookies Policy. - adaptation to the new
regulations.- A quote has been requested from a specialized company Responsible:
DATAPLUS CONSULTING S.L CIF: 887536728; Vallehermoso Street No. 40, 28015
Madrid; for : . Adaptation Phase (RGPD-LOPDGDD) (Adaptation-updating
of the CLIENT to the European regulations on data protection).

The educational center has been informed of the need to accommodate its behavior to the
prescriptions contained in Chapter IV of Decree 37/2018. of July 18,
organization and development of the instruments of operation of the technologies of
information and communications and information security of the
Administration of the Principality of Asturias and its public sector (BOPA 07/27/2018)”.

EIGHTH: On 10/13/21, the respondent is notified of the proposed
resolution, in which it is proposed that, by the Director of the Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

Spanish Data Protection Agency proceeds to "ADDRESS A WARNING" to the
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS, responsible for the
page ***URL.1, by:

-

-

Violation of article 32.1) of the RGPD, punishable in accordance with the provisions of
the art. 83 of the aforementioned standard, regarding the lack of security on the page
Web.

Violation of article 13) of the RGPD, punishable in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 83 of the aforementioned rule, regarding its "Privacy Policy", as it is not
adapted to the new regulations in force.

- FILE this sanctioning procedure, due to violation of article
22.2) of the LSSI, regarding its "Cookies Policy", when the
condition of "Service Provider of the Information Society", to the
have been modified the web page, eliminating the tab <<works with
us>>.

NINTH: Notified the proposed resolution, dated 10/26/21, the part
The respondent presented a written statement of allegations to the proposed resolution, in which,
among others, it indicated the following:

1.- With regard to infringement of article 32.1) of the RGPD, punishable in accordance with the
provided in art. 83 of the aforementioned rule, regarding the lack of security in the
web page: We have acquired a Secure Connection Certificate: Implementation of
a Wildcard SSL certificate. SSL Security Certificates encrypt
communications between the web server and your visitors' browser, keeping
secure data exchange.

The characteristics of the Instant55L Wildcard Certificate are: Validation Certificate
of the company. SSL for the entire domain and subdomains. Issuance time: 1.2 days.
Complies with the GDPR regulation. Company Certification. SHA encryption, 256.
Renewal Reminders.

2.- Regarding infringement of article 13) of the RGPD, punishable in accordance with the
provided in art. 83 of the aforementioned rule, regarding its "Privacy Policy", does not
be adapted to the new regulations in force We have proceeded to review these
sections of the cipcerdeno.com website and correct the normative references

TENTH: On 11/02/21, this Agency carried out the following
checks on the web page, ***URL.1 :

a) On the processing of personal data
 :

 

1.- Personal data of users can be obtained through the tab
<<request an appointment>>:***URL.9, where personal data such as the
name, surnames, ID, email and telephone.

Before sending the form, you must check the box: “_ I have read and accepted <<the
privacy policy>>”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

b) About the “Privacy Policy”:
 

 

1.- Through the link, <<Privacy Policy>>, existing at the top of the
main page, the web redirects to a new page, ***URL.2, where it is reported that
the processing of personal data complies with current regulations. Also I know
provides the following information about who is responsible for the treatment of
Personal information; the purpose of data processing according to the form
used; the recipients of the data transfer; the legitimacy of the treatment
of the data and on the rights that assist users in terms of protection
data and where to go to exercise them.

c) About the “https” security protocol used in data transfer:
 

 

When accessing the web page, the Chrome browser warns that the page is secure,
because it uses the protocol (***URL.1), for its communications, offering the following
message: “THE CONNECTION IS SECURE: Your information, for example, your passwords
or your credit card number, is private when submitted on this website."

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited
facts:

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- According to the claimant, the website ***URL.1 contains administrative infractions
typified in the General Data Protection Regulation (“RGPD”) and in the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on services of the information society and commerce
email, both in its privacy policy and in the cookie policy.

2º.- According to the checks made by this Agency on the website
reported, on 05/05/21, by this Agency the following were carried out
checks on the web page, ***URL.1:

a) Regarding the processing of personal data:
 

 

1.- Users' personal data could be obtained through the tab,
<<request an appointment>> or through the <<contact>> link. The form could
send without the need to have "read and accepted" the privacy policy or legal notice.
There was only one button with the <<send>> message in the forms.

2.- Personal data of web users could also be obtained through
the tab, <<work with us>> where the "job bank" of the
Teaching Institute. The form could be sent without the need to have “read and
accepted” the privacy policy or legal notice.

b) About the “Privacy Policy”:
 

 

 

 , existing at the bottom of the
1.- Through the link, <<Privacy Policy
main page, the web redirects to a new page, where it was reported that the
processing of personal data complies with current regulations. Nevertheless,
was still referring to the repealed LOPD "(...) In compliance with the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

 >>

10/18

provided for in Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on Data Protection of
Personal Character, the User of Cipfcerdeno.com may (...)”.

c) About the "http" security protocol used in data transfer:
 

 

When accessing the web page, the Chrome browser warned that the page was not
secure, since it uses the http:// protocol for its communications, offering the
following message: “It is not secure: We recommend that you do not enter information
personal or private on this page. If possible, please do not use this website. It is not
safe: be careful. The connection of this website has some serious problem of
privacy. It is possible that another user can see the information you send or receive
through this site. You may see the message "Login not secure" or "Payment
not secure". Dangerous: Avoid this website. If you see a warning screen of
red color that occupies the entire page, it means that the Safe Browsing function has
marked the website as not secure. It is very likely that your private information
be in danger by using it." HTTP code is a communication protocol that
allows the transfer of information on the Internet, but totally insecure and
being subject to attacks that allow to easily obtain the information that is
transferring from one website to another.

d) About the Cookies Policy:
 

 

1.- Upon entering the home page of the web, (first layer), it was found that without
perform any action or accept cookies, unnecessary cookies were used,
both their own and those of third parties.

2.- The banner about cookies that appears on the main page provides the following
information: “The cookies used by cifpcerdeno.com are not invasive or harmful,
and do not contain personal data. However, if you wish, you can
deactivate them by following the instructions of your browser”. <<I accept>>

There was no possibility in the banner to reject cookies that were not necessary or
nor any link to the second layer or cookie configuration panel.

3.- If the "Privacy Policy" was accessed, the web redirected to a new page,
where information was provided, in the cookies section, about: what cookies are
cookies and the types of cookies that exist, but no information is provided or
identify the cookies used by the page.

3º.- During this sanctioning procedure, the person in charge of the website
in question has been conveniently modifying it. In this sense, the verification
carried out on the page on 11/02/21, has resulted in the following:

a) Regarding the processing of personal data:
 

 

1.- Personal data of users can be obtained through the tab
<<request an appointment>>: where you can include personal data such as name,
surnames, ID, email and phone number. Before submitting the form,
the box must be checked: “_ I have read and accepted <<the privacy policy
privacy>>”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

b) About the “Privacy Policy”:
 

 

1.- Through the link, <<Privacy Policy>>, existing at the top of the
main page, the web redirects to a new page, where it is reported that the
processing of personal data complies with current regulations. Also I know
provides information on who is responsible for data processing
personal; the purpose of data processing according to the form used; the
data transfer recipients; the legitimacy of data processing and
on the rights that assist users in terms of data protection and
Where to go to exercise?

c) About the “https” security protocol used in data transfer:
 

 

1.- When accessing the web page, the Chrome browser warns that the page is
secure, since it uses the ***URL.1 protocol for its communications, offering the
following message: “THE CONNECTION IS SECURE: Your information, for example, your
passwords or your credit card number, is private when submitted on this site
Web".

d) About the Cookies Policy:
 

 

After receiving the allegations made by the Ministry of Education of the
Principality of Asturias where it was indicated that it was going to proceed to adapt the website
to current regulations on "organization and development of the instruments of
operation of information and communication technologies and the
security of the information of the Administration of the Principality of Asturias and its
public sector (BOPA 07/27/2018)”, it has been possible to verify, by this
Agency that, the link, <<works with us>> (Campus  Employment Orientation 
Work with us), has been removed. Therefore, as established in article 2.1
of the LSSI, the Ministry of Education of the Principality of Asturias, (CIFP
***LOCALIDAD.1), would no longer fit within the scope of application of the LSSI.
 

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I.- Competition:

a). - With respect to the infraction committed to the RGPD, it is competent to resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, of
in accordance with the provisions of its art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

b). - With respect to the infraction committed to the LSSI, it is competent to resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, of
in accordance with the provisions of its art. 43.1, second paragraph.

II.- On the "http" security protocol used in the transfer of data in the
Web page:

Checking the web page on 05/05/21, it was observed that, when accessing it, the
Chrome browser warned that the page was not secure, because it uses the protocol
http:// for your communications.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

This sanctioning procedure has been initiated for infraction of article 32.1) of the
RGPD, regarding the lack of security on the website, the person responsible for this
notified this Agency that a Secure Connection Certificate had been acquired,
implemented a Wildcard SSL certificate.

This aspect was checked by this Agency on 11/02/21, it was found
that, when accessing the web page, the Chrome browser warns that the page is
secure, since it uses the ***URL.1 protocol for its communications, offering the
following message: “THE CONNECTION IS SECURE: Your information, for example, your
passwords or your credit card number, is private when submitted on this site
Web".

In this sense, article 32 of the RGPD indicates, on the security of the treatment of
personal data, which:

1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature,
the scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability and
variable seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the
responsible and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which in its case
include, among others: a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data; b) the
ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resiliency
permanent treatment systems and services; c) the ability to restore
availability and access to personal data quickly in case of
physical or technical incident; d) a process of verification, evaluation and assessment
of the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the
treatment safety.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3.Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

According to the evidence available at this time of resolution of the
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the technical and organizational measures implemented
mentioned on the website do not contradict the provisions of article 32.1 of the
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

III.- Regarding the processing of personal data and the "Privacy Policy" of the website:

The website in question was consulted on 05/05/21, by this Agency it was possible to
verify that personal data of users could be obtained through the
tab, <<request an appointment>> or through the <<contact>> link. The form is
could send without the need to have "read and accepted" the privacy policy or notice
legal. There was only one button with the <<send>> message in the forms.

Personal data of web users could also be obtained through the
tab, <<work with us>> where the "job bank" of the
Teaching Institute. The form could be sent without the need to have “read and
accepted” the privacy policy or legal notice.

For its part, the “Privacy Policy” informed that the processing of data
personnel complied with current regulations. However, he was still doing
reference to the repealed LOPD.

Initiated the present sanctioning procedure for infraction of article 13) of the
RGPD, regarding the lack of adaptation of the website to the new regulations in force in
matter of data protection, the person in charge of this notified this Agency that
had proceeded to review these sections of the web and correct the errors
detected.

This aspect was checked by this Agency on 11/02/21, it was found
that, at present, personal data of users can be obtained through
the <<request an appointment>> tab but now, before being able to send the form,
You must check the box: “_ I have read and accepted <<the privacy policy
privacy>>”.

On the "Privacy Policy", information is currently provided on
who is responsible for the processing of personal data; the purpose of
data processing according to the form used; the recipients of the
data transfer; the legitimacy of data processing and the
rights that assist users in terms of data protection and where
go to exercise them. All this, referring to the current regulations, that is,
to the RGPD and the LOPDGDD.

In this sense, article 13 of the RGPD establishes the information that must be provided.
inform the interested party at the time of collecting their personal data:

“1. When personal data relating to him/her is obtained from an interested party, the person responsible
of the treatment, at the moment in which these are obtained, will facilitate: a) the identity
identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative; b) the
contact details of the data protection delegate, where appropriate; c) the purposes of the
treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis of the treatment; d)
when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests
mos of the person in charge or of a third party; e) recipients or recipient categories
recipients of personal data, where appropriate; f) if applicable, the intention of the controller
to transfer personal data to a third country or international organization and the existence
presence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or, in the case of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, paragraph
second, reference to the adequate or appropriate guarantees and the means to obtain
have a copy of these or the fact that they have been loaned.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained,
them, the following information necessary to guarantee fair data processing and
transparent: a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when
where this is not possible, the criteria used to determine this term; b) existence
the right to request access to personal data from the data controller
relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its treatment,
or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to data portability; c)
when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9,
paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any
moment, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the consent
prior to its withdrawal; d) the right to lodge a complaint with a law enforcement authority
control; e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or
a necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to make
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data; f) the existence of automated decisions, including the preparation
of profiles, referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
foreseen consequences of said treatment for the interested party”.

In the present case, according to the evidence available at this time
resolution of the sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the "Privacy Policy"
dad”, of the claimed website, no longer contradicts the provisions of article
13 of the GDPR.

IV.- About the "Cookies Policy" of the website:

The LSSI is applicable only to service providers of the company of the
information; in other words, it is applicable to natural or legal persons who
carry out economic activities over the Internet or other telematic means. So,
a Public Administration, as in this case, the Ministry of Education of the
Principality of Asturias, (CIFP *** LOCATION.1), would not fit within the LSSI, except
that, through the web page of said Public Administration, a
economic activity, such as the sale of publications or the management of the
job bank for hiring temporary staff.

In the case that does not concern, when the present sanctioning procedure began, it was
verified that, through the website: ***URL.1, the job bank was managed
of the Institute, allowing users to send their personal data and their curriculum
vitae directly to the educational center CIFP ***LOCALIDAD.1, therefore, due to
this activity the Ministry of Education of the Principality of Asturias, (CIFP
***LOCATION.1), was considered "Service Provider of the Society of the
Information” and therefore subject to the LSSI.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

The website in question was consulted on 05/05/21, by this Agency it was possible to
verify that personal data could be obtained from web users through
of the <<work with us>> tab (Campus  Employment Orientation  Work
with us), ***URL.1. On that page there was the following message: “Due to the
volume of work and the diversity of areas of action that we cover, we have
our own employment exchange to respond to our needs. If you want
collaborate with us, let us know”.

For its part, it was verified that, when entering the home page of the website, (first
layer), without performing any action or accepting cookies, cookies were used
necessary, both their own and those of third parties.

The cookie banner on the home page provided information
generic about cookies, but there was no possibility in this banner to
reject unnecessary cookies and neither any type of link to the second
cookie configuration layer or panel.

If the "Privacy Policy" was accessed, the web redirected to a new page, where
Information was provided, in the cookies section, about: what cookies are and
the types of cookies that exist, but no information is provided or identified
the cookies used by the page.

After receiving the allegations made by the Ministry of Education of the
Principality of Asturias where it was indicated that it was going to proceed to adapt the website
to current regulations on "organization and development of the instruments of
operation of information and communication technologies and the
security of the information of the Administration of the Principality of Asturias and its
public sector (BOPA 07/27/2018)”, it has been possible to verify, by this
Agency that, the link, <<works with us>> (Campus  Employment Orientation 
Work with us), has been removed. Therefore, as established in article 2.1
of the LSSI, the Ministry of Education of the Principality of Asturias, (CIFP
***LOCALIDAD.1), would no longer fit within the scope of application of the LSSI.

V.- Penalty system applicable to certain categories of responsible and
treatment managers.

Article 77 of the LOPDGDD establishes the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:
a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions of
autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the autonomous communities
tónomas and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or dependent on
tes of the Public Administrations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are re-
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
nica, the competent data protection authority will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed.
The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are in-
Enough words for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
result of application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.
gives.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity
of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority,
It will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations.”

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

RESOLVES:

FIRST: SEND A WARNING, to the COUNCIL OF EDUCATION OF THE
PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS, responsible for the page ***URL.1, by:

-

-

Violation of article 32.1) of the RGPD, punishable in accordance with the provisions of
the art. 83 of the aforementioned standard, regarding the lack of security on the page
web, during the time that the http// protocol was active, on web page in
issue until amended.

Violation of article 13) of the RGPD, for the time it was without adapting the
"Privacy Policy", to the new regulations in force.

SECOND: FILE, to the OFFICE OF EDUCATION OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF
ASTURIAS, responsible for the website, ***URL.1, this procedure
sanctioning party, for Violation of article 22.2) of the LSSI, regarding its "Policy of
Cookies”, upon the disappearance of its status as “Service Provider of the Society of the
Information”, when modifying the web page.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF ASTURIAS and the claimant on the result of the claim-
tion.

FOURTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may inter-
optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection Regulation within a month from the day following the
notification of this resolution or directly contentious-administrative appeal before
the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act,
in accordance with the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

Sea Spain Martí.
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

