1/7

 File No.: EXP202204214

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. and CIVIL GUARD - *** POSITION 1 (hereinafter, the party claiming-
te/complainant) on April 6, 2022 filed a claim with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection. The claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed/reported party). The reasons on which the re-
clamor are as follows:

“Installation of several poorly oriented cameras affecting public areas without

justified cause (…)”-folio nº 1--.

It indicates that the CITY COUNCIL OF ALFOZ DE QUINTADUEÑAS, in December
2021 required the respondent to remove the cameras that were facing the road
public, ignoring the defendant part of said petition.

It provides, among other documentation, images of the location of the cameras and
writings of the CITY COUNCIL OF ALFOZ DE QUITADUEÑAS requesting the adoption
of corrective measures on the orientation of the controversial cameras.

SECOND: On 05/23/22 the Record (Complaint) of the Civil Guard Company Bur-
judges who consider that the defendant “could be capturing public space”, indicating
providing the identification data of the informative poster, being the same as the one claimed
previously mentioned.

"Report received from the Government Sub-delegation in Burgos, and after
request for support to the State Security Forces and Corps by the
City Council of the town of Alfoz de Quintanadueñas (Burgos), for the placement
tion by the person described as accused of some video cameras
gilance on the facade of his home. That according to their placement in the re-
Inferred facade could apparently be capturing images of the public thoroughfare, in-
consequently violating the aforementioned R.G.P.D”

THIRD: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the party claimed on fe-
date 04/07/22, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency on the plan
within one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements.
cough in the data protection regulations.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

FOURTH: On 05/17/22, a response was received from the claimed party confirming
the presence of the cameras, although it does not provide an impression of the images, alleging
security reasons.

“The photographs on the images that the cameras record are not attached
for security, due to the visit we have received from the agents of the
civil guard where they have been provided with the vision of the cameras and seeing these the cap-
cations of said images”

FIFTH: On May 18, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the LO-
PDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

SIXTH: On July 7, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
The Data Protection Agency agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party, with
according to the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Pro-
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged violation of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

SEVENTH: Notification of the aforementioned initiation agreement in accordance with the established regulations
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the claimed party submitted a written
of allegations in which, in summary, he stated the following:

"I express my opposition to the start of the disciplinary file, and to the sanction
proposed decision, considering it unfair and detrimental, in terms of defense, and considering
I believe that, in the installation of video cameras carried out in my home, all
two the requirements for its legality and obtaining the corresponding authorization.

In the case of video cameras that are placed on the gas meter
and garage door, were in fact unusable, as the neighbor had placed
and denouncing an illegal smoke outlet that limits any vision on the part of the camera.
mara, also existing under the other chamber directed to the access door to his garage.
heh, a smoke outlet that practically renders said chamber useless.

In any case, the installed cameras strictly comply with the
legal conditions, and they cover public space in a very limited way, limiting themselves to
the capture of images of the entrances to the house, and the rear part that gives access
to a private patio.

 Attached as DOCUMENT FIVE images of the vision of the two

existing cameras.

I must also point out that in the locality there are other instruments of
public and private recording, which are oriented to the public thoroughfare and which in some
cases do not meet the legally established requirements, and we are not aware of
evidence that disciplinary proceedings have been filed against them."

EIGHTH: On 08/12/22 the "Proposal for a Resolution" is issued confirming the
misorientation of the installed camera affecting public area, infringement of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

article 5.1 c) GDPR, proposing a penalty of €600, taking into account the circumstances
specific case, appearing in the system of this Agency as
"Notified".

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim (Complaint) dated 04/06/22 for
means of which the following is transferred:

“Installation of several poorly oriented cameras affecting public areas without

justified cause (…)”-folio nº 1--.

Second. It is identified as the main person in charge B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1.

Third. The defendant does not deny the facts, although he justifies the capture of public space.
according to the regulations in force, however, it is considered excessive the capture of
public space according to the documentaries provided.

Photographic document no. 1 (written on 07/29/22) certifies the capture and treatment

Data collection of the entire public highway adjacent to your private property.

Room. There is evidence of the placement of an information poster in a visible area indicating
the data controller for the appropriate legal purposes.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Re-
General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each authori-
quality of control and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed
by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulations
comments dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with a sub-
sisidario, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

In the present case, the claim dated 04/06/22 is examined by means of
gave from which the following is transferred as the main fact:

II

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

“Installation of video surveillance camera(s) that are poorly oriented, affect

respecting the tranquility of the adjoining property (…)”

The same "facts" are transferred by the Security Forces and Bodies.
security of the State (Civil Guard Company Burgos) who consider that "it could be
Capturing public space”, indicating the identification data of the informative poster.

The art. 5.1 c) GDPR provides the following: Personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, certifying that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative poster
tive, indicating the purposes and person responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit thereof without just cause.

Neither with this type of device can you obtain an image(s) of public space.
since this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the State
tado.

It should be remembered that even if it is a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimate
measured by it in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

II

In accordance with the evidence available in the sanctioning procedure,
dor, it is considered that the claimed party has a video-surveillance system
that is misdirected affecting the rights of third parties.

The installed cameras should preferably be oriented towards your
private property, avoiding affecting with them areas reserved for third parties and/or
public space.

In the documentary evidence provided by the defendant himself in writing dated
07/29/22 the capture of the entire public highway adjacent to the
your home, being considered disproportionate orientation to the purpose
intended.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

Security cameras installed in private spaces will not be able to obtain images
of public spaces, the security function of public spaces corresponds to
exclusively to the State Security Forces and Corps, so that
an affectation is made to a <public> space without justified cause, having to re-
Orient the orientation angle if necessary.

The Private Security Law, in its Article 42 on Video Surveillance Services
establishes:

"Cameras or video cameras may not be used for private security purposes to
take images and sounds of roads and public spaces or public access except in
the assumptions and in the terms and conditions provided in its specific regulations,
previous administrative authorization by the competent body in each case”.

The known facts constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed, for violation of the content of article 5.1 c) GDPR.

According to article 72 section 1 LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5) "Infractions
considered very serious" "infractions involving
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following (…)

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

IV.

The art. 83.5 GDPR provides the following: "Violations of the following provisions
These will be penalized, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
000 000 EUR maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount
to a maximum of 4% of the overall annual total turnover of the financial year
previous year, opting for the one with the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment including the conditions for the

consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9 (…)”.

When motivating the sanction, it is taken into account that it is an individual, who has
been widely warned of the misguidance by the competent authorities,
creating a situation of some discomfort in the neighborhood with the presence of the same
more, originating the intervention of the State Security Forces and Bodies,
for which reason a sanction amounting to €600 is agreed, a sanction located in
the lower scale for this type of behavior, consistent with an attitude
grossly negligent in their orientation.

V

The text of the resolution establishes which have been the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the data protection regulations
from which it is clearly inferred what are the measures to be adopted, without prejudice to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

that the type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments to implement
treat them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is the person responsible for the treatment who
fully knows your organization and has to decide, based on personal responsibility
active and risk-focused, how to comply with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article 5.1.c)
of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of €600.

SECOND: TO ORDER the claimed party so that within 15
days from the following notification of this act, proceed to the re-
orientation or reinstallation of the system, providing reliable evidence to this
body of the corrective measures taken.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to Mr. B.B.B..

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Co-Administrative Procedure
public administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the term of payment vo-
volunteer established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Spanish Agency
ñola of Data Protection in the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case of
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment period is
It will run until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties
Respondents may optionally file an appeal for reinstatement before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
fourth clause of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

administration, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If it is-
As the case may be, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer the documentation to the Agency
proving the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. if the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
treatment within two months from the day following notification of this
resolution, would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

