1/12

 File No.: EXP202105364

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 2, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against BANCO BILBAO
VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement
which is transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202105364

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated October 13, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A. with NIF
A48265169 (hereinafter, the claimed party or BBVA). The reasons on which the
claim are as follows:

Since 2014, it has been asking BBVA, in every possible way, not to send
postal mail to your address no stock market investment report “(Acción IBEX35 ETF
Listed FI and BBVA Bolsa Tecnología y Telecomunicaciones FI)”, receiving “acknowledgment
of receipt and reply to the cessation of the aforementioned report”, although they continue to send it (7
years), violating their "right to oppose and cancel data".

With the claim, provide a copy of the following documents:

1. Request to exercise the right of cancellation, dated 11/24/2014, addressed by
the complaining party to the BBVA Quality Department, and proof of their
delivery to the recipient on 01/12/2014. This request indicates the following:

“The cancellation of any periodic paper report of the fund in which I am a participant:
. BBVA Technology and Telecommunications Exchange, FI.
. Ibex35 ETF FI share.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

2. Communication from BBVA (Customer Service - SAC), dated
12/18/2014, in response to the right of cancellation exercised, by which it is given
account of the following agreement:

“In compliance with your instructions, we confirm that we have proceeded in accordance with
with Organic Law 15/99 of December 13 on the Protection of Personal Data,
in order to prevent the subsequent processing or use of your data and, likewise, they have been
taken the necessary measures to prevent the sending of advertising.

3. Document dated 07/12/2019, sent by the complaining party to BBVA (SAC), in which
which manifests:

“I am writing to you in relation to the annual report BBVA Bolsa Tecnología y
Telecommunications, FI of which I am a participant, that on November 24, 2014, I requested that
service the waiver of receiving this report in paper format and by regular mail, through
official request right of cancellation according to LOPD, attached copy... and providing mail
email for sending the report, I attach a copy...

On December 18, 2014, I received a reply… with a written commitment from the aforementioned
request, attached copy...

Year after year you continue sending the aforementioned report, I attach a copy of the year 2018 and
received this month of July…”.

4. Communication dated 08/13/2019, sent by BBVA (SAC) to the party
claimant indicating the following:

“The purpose of your complaint… is to request the cancellation of any shipment of
paper correspondence about the investment fund of which he is a participant. For this reason, request the
sending such communications to your email.

…After carefully reviewing the facts… and the documentation…, we inform you of
that we have verified that you have activated the option to receive correspondence from the
investment fund by email, with a semi-annual periodicity”.

5. Communications relating to the fund “BBVA Bolsa Tecnología y Telecomunicaciones,
FI”:

. Annual report corresponding to 2018, sent to the address of the complaining party and to
your name.
. Semi-annual report for the first half of 2019, sent to the address of the party
claimant and in his name.

6. Communications related to the “Acción IBEX 35 ETF FI Cotizado Harmonizado” fund:

. Report of the first semester of 2019, sent on behalf of a third party to the same
domicile of the claimant.
. Annual reports for 2020 (two mailings), sent to the address of the complaining party,
but without recipient's name.
. Report of the first semester of 2021, sent on behalf of a third party to the same
domicile of the claimant.
. Report for the first half of 2021, sent to the address of the complaining party and to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

your name.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 12/10/2021 as recorded in the
acknowledgment of receipt that works in the file.

On 12/28/2021, this Agency received a letter from the entity BBVA, which
acknowledges receipt of the transfer of the claim and informs that the request of this Agency
“is being managed”.

THIRD: On January 13, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 02/18/2022, this Agency received the written response to the
transfer of the claim made by BBVA, in which the following is indicated:

BBVA is obliged to send the requested party the information corresponding to the
fund “BBVA Bolsa Tecnología y Telecomunicaciones, FI”, as owner of this fund,
in accordance with Circular 4/2008, of September 11, of the National Commission of the
Stock Market, on the content of the quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports
of collective investment institutions and the statement of position, whose article 4.1
provides the following:

"1. The management companies of collective investment institutions or the companies of
investment, where appropriate, or the marketing entities, must send free of charge to the
participant or partner... to the address indicated, the successive simplified reports
semi-annual and first part of the annual report and, if requested, the reports
Quarterly Simplified. The second part of the annual report will be sent to the shareholder or partner
within the first five months of each fiscal year.

In August 2019, the complaining party stopped receiving the information by mail
corresponding to the mentioned fund.

In this regard, it clarifies that the communication that the complaining party addressed to the SAC, the
07/12/2019, referred exclusively to the annual reports of the fund "BBVA Bolsa
Technology and Telecommunications, FI", and not to the reports corresponding to the fund
“IBEX 35 ETF FI Harmonized Listed Stock”.

The information that BBVA transfers to the complaining party is carried out by the
channels that the technology allows and the bank has enabled at all times. To
current date, BBVA does not have the technological possibility to send the reports
annual and semi-annual corresponding to ETFs, such as the product “Acción IBEX 35
Harmonized Listed FI ETF”, digitally.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

Pursuant to the request dated 07/12/2019, after the request, the sending of
semi-annual and annual reports to the complaining party has not been carried out via
postal mail, in relation to the fund listed in the aforementioned application (“BBVA
Technology and Telecommunications Exchange, FI”).

On the other hand, BBVA warns that there has been no processing of personal data
for direct marketing purposes; the data processing carried out by BBVA has
taken place within the framework of the contractual relationship and in compliance with the aforementioned art. 4.1
of Circular 4/2008. Semi-annual and annual reports are provided for late
informative and do not constitute and cannot be construed as an offer, invitation or
incitement for the sale, purchase or subscription of shares.

With its response, BBVA provides a copy of the communication sent to the party
claimant on the occasion of the process of transfer of the claim. In this
communication, BBVA communicates the following:

“You express your disagreement with the sending of communications by post by this Entity, after
having exercised their right of deletion, and after opposition to said shipments. Attached is the
written as annex I.

This Service, after the appropriate checks, has verified that the measures
corresponding to not send you commercial communications and that took effect. What
you received was correspondence (non-commercial) of the contracted product.

In relation to the right of deletion, we inform you that your data is currently
duly blocked, which prevents their subsequent processing or use. Nope
However, its treatment is essential to respond to your complaint before the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection until its resolution.

On the other hand, we inform you that, regarding the sending of non-commercial correspondence, as
as indicated in the file with reference number 8452333, relating to the product that
you had contracted, this entity transferred you through the Customer Service that
You had activated the option to receive the information every six months in your email address.
However, at present it no longer has contracts or services contracted with BBVA”.

FIFTH: Dated 06/01/2022, by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection
You can access the information available on the BBVA entity in “Axesor”. (…)

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

Article 4 of the RGPD, under the heading "Definitions", provides the following:

“2) «processing»: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or
destruction".

In accordance with these definitions, the sending of postal communications subject to
the claim constitutes a treatment of personal data, in respect of which the
Responsible for the treatment must comply with the principle of legality established
in article 5.1 of the RGPD, according to which personal data will be “processed
lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party (lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency)".

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
processing of personal data:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:
a) the interested party gave his consent for the treatment of his personal data for one or
various specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is a party
or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;
d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or another person
physical;
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest
or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by the
responsible for the treatment or by a third party, provided that said interests are not
prevail the interests or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that
require the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested party is a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment carried out by
public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

III

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, there are indications about the processing of the personal data of the party

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

claimant without any legal basis that legitimizes it, considering that it requested the
the party complained against that the information regarding the investment funds that it had
contracted was sent by email and not by post.

This request not to use the postal address was accepted by the entity BBVA
on 12/18/2014 in relation to the products “BBVA Bolsa Tecnología y
Telecommunications, FI” and “Ibex 35 ETF Harmonized Listed FI Action”.
Subsequently, the complaining party reiterated its request on 07/12/2019 in relation to
with the first investment fund mentioned.

These requests by the complaining party entail the impossibility of any
subsequent processing of said data by BBVA for the indicated purpose. Without
However, this entity did not duly meet said obligation.

The complaining party has provided, along with its claim, a copy of the reports
received after your request, specifically, the annual report and the first
semester of 2019 corresponding to the investment fund “BBVA Bolsa Tecnología y
Telecommunications, FI”; and the report for the first semester of 2021 of the “Acción
IBEX 35 ETF FI Harmonized Listed”. These reports contain the data
information of the complaining party related to name, surnames and postal address.

The complaining party also attached the 2020 annual report of the “Acción
IBEX 35 ETF FI Harmonized Listed”, sent to your address, but without the name of the
addressee.

BBVA, in its response to the processing of transfer of the claim, has stated that
after the request of 07/12/2018, regarding the fund “BBVA Bolsa
Technology and Telecommunications, FI”, information on this product was not sent by
post mail; but it does not take into account that the same request had been made by
the complaining party and accepted by the aforementioned entity in 2014, which, in addition,
referred to the two investment products reviewed, and not only to the fund “BBVA Bolsa
Technology and Telecommunications, FI”.

Regarding the sending of the information of the investment fund “Acción IBEX 35 ETF FI
Harmonized Listed Price”, points out the complaining party that does not currently have “the
technological possibility” to be sent digitally, that the information transferred
It is carried out through the channels that technology and the bank allow at all times.
have enabled, but without explaining the reasons for this impediment.

On the other hand, the respondent also explains that these periodic reports must
must be sent to the holders of this type of product in accordance with
what is established in Circular 4/2008, of September 11, of the National Commission of the
Stock Market, on the content of the quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports
of collective investment institutions and the statement of position. However, this
Circular establishes that the remittance of the reports to the participant can be done via
telematics, with the consent of the investor, and adds that the latter will indicate the address
email you want for this referral information.

The known facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed, for violation of the provisions of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

section 5.a) of article 83 of the RGPD, which under the heading “General conditions
for the imposition of administrative fines” provides the following:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent to
tenor of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Article 72. Infractions considered very serious.
1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a violation
substance of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of legality of the
treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

IV

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established by the
articles 83.2 of the RGPD and 76 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in the present case it is considered that it is appropriate to graduate
the sanction to be imposed according to the following criteria:

In an initial evaluation, the criterion of
next graduation:

. Article 83.2.a) of the RGPD: “a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the
infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the operation
of treatment in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the
level of damages they have suffered.

. The duration of the infraction, considering that the infraction has been committed in
different exercises

. Article 83.2.b) of the RGPD: "b) the intention or negligence in the infringement".

The negligence appreciated in the commission of the infraction, considering that the
claimed party did not have to have the will expressed by the claimant party to
not receive the postal items to which the claim refers. this will
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

8/12

was known to the respondent, who also accepted the petition. These
Circumstances reveal negligent action on the part of the respondent.

In this regard, what was declared in the Judgment of the High Court is taken into account.
National of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006) that, based on the fact that they are entities
whose activity involves continuous data processing, indicates that "... the
The Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence whenever
disregards a legal duty of care, that is, when the offender fails to
behave with due diligence. And in assessing the degree of diligence,
of weighing especially the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt
that, in the case now examined, when the activity of the appellant is of
constant and abundant handling of personal data, it must be insisted on the
rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the legal provisions in this regard.

It is an entity that performs personal data processing in a
systematic and continuous in the workplace and that extreme care must be taken in the
compliance with its data protection obligations.

This Agency understands that diligence must be deduced from facts
conclusive, duly accredited and directly related
with the elements that make up the infraction, in such a way that it can be deduced
that it has occurred despite all the means provided by the
responsible to avoid it. In this case, the action of the party complained against
has this character.

. Article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD: “b) The link between the activity of the offender
with the processing of personal data”.

The high link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment
of personal data. The level of implementation of the entity and the
activity that it develops, in which the personal data of millions of
of stakeholders. This circumstance determines a higher degree of demand and
professionalism and, consequently, the responsibility of the entity
claimed in relation to data processing.

. Article 83.2.k) of the RGPD: “k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor
applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained
or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through the infringement”.

. BBVA's status as a large company and business volume. (…)

It is also considered that the following circumstance concurs as a mitigating circumstance:

. Article 83.2.a) of the RGPD: “a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the
infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the operation
of treatment in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the
level of damages they have suffered.

The infringement is an anomaly that affects only the complaining party.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

Considering the exposed factors, the initial valuation that reaches the fine, for the
violation of article 6 of the RGPD, is 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros).

v

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
appropriate measures to adjust their actions to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to the
which each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction
consisting of an administrative fine, as provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,
HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: START SANCTION PROCEDURE against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A., with NIF A48265169, for the alleged infringement of article 6 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the same legal text.

SECOND: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and, as secretary, to S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data in the actions prior to the start of this sanctioning procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros), without
prejudice to what results from the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A., with NIF A48265169, granting it a hearing period of ten
working days to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient. In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
this initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the penalty would be established at 56,000 euros (fifty-six thousand
euros), resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 56,000 euros (fifty-six thousand euros) and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 42,000 euros (forty-two thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (56,000 euros or 42,000 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In compliance with articles 14, 41 and 43 of the LPACAP, it is noted that, in what
successively, the notifications sent to you will be made exclusively in a
electronically by appearance at the electronic headquarters of the General Access Point of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

the Administration or through the unique Authorized Electronic Address and that, if not
access them, their rejection will be recorded in the file, considering the
processing and following the procedure. You are informed that you can identify before this
Agency an email address to receive the notice of commissioning
disposition of the notifications and that the lack of practice of this notice will not prevent
that the notification be considered fully valid.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
>>

935-110422

SECOND: On June 16, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 42,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202105364, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

936-240122

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

