 

 

 

 
PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 
Athens, 08-02-2018

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/1119/08-02-2018
 

 

 

 

 
 
     

     

 

 

A P O F A S H 10 /2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department at its headquarters on Wednesday 31.1.2018 at 10:00 a.m. after invitation
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its President, in order to examine the case referred to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present history. They were attended by the Honorable President of the Authority George
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Batzalexis, obstructing the President of the Authority Constantinos Menoudakos,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the alternate members Panagiotis Rontogiannis, Grigorios Tsolias and
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charalambos Tsiliotis, as rapporteur, to replace the regular members
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Antoniou ymboni, pyridon of Vlachopoulos and Charalambou Anthopoulos
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

respectively, who, although they were legally summoned in writing, did not appear for the reason
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obstruction. Present without the right to vote were Fereniki Panagopoulou,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal
 

controller
 

-

 

attorney, as assistant
 

 

 

rapporteur and Irini
 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative and financial department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

affairs, as secretary.
  

 

 

 

 

  
The Authority took into account the following:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
With the application from ... (ADPPH G/EI /2092/14-03-2017), according to a correct assessment

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
thereof, the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Center of Athens Hygeia S.A. (henceforth

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
"HYGEIA" Hospital) forwards the application of the anonymous insurance company to the Authority

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of a company with the name "GROUPAMA PHOENIX ANONYMI ELLINIKI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
A BANKRUPTCY COMPANY" (hereinafter GROUPAMA PHOENIX) and according to this

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
way submits a question to the Authority if it can grant a certificate with the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
details of all issued invoices-receipts of services provided by

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
"HYGEIA" hospital in the name of the patient and according to her claims

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

insurance company formerly insured in it, A for judicial use and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specifically to refute the lawsuit that A has brought against her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GROUPAMA PHOENIX and B before the Magistrate's Court X (Regular Procedure,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

No. registered ..., admissible ...), which has been referred for adjudication pursuant to it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under no. ... decision of the Magistrate's Court X in the Multi-Member Court of First Instance of Athens
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Regular Procedure, Summons after referral, General Court ..., General Court ..., trial ...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after adjournment from the original hearing …) upon summons upon referral
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

brought by A against GROUPAMA PHOENIX.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who attended without
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

right to vote and withdrew after the discussion of the case and before
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the conference and decision-making, after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW

 

 

 

 

 

1. Because the provisions of articles 2 par. b', 4 par. 1 and 7 par. 2 item. c
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Law 2472/1997 determine the terms and conditions for the legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of sensitive personal data related to health. The
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provisions of articles 5 par. 3 and 13 par. 3 item. b' of Law 3418/2005 (Code
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Medical Ethics) provide for exceptional administration
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

medical
 

certificates to a third party, as long as he has a legitimate interest and proves it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the conditions for lifting medical confidentiality. Because, further, Article 11
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 3 of Law 2472/1997 stipulates that if the data is disclosed to third parties, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject is informed of the announcement before them.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. Since article 1 of Law 2496/1997, as replaced by art.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

278 par.7 of Law 4364/2016, provides, among other things, that with the preparation of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance contract, the insurance company (insurer) undertakes it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation towards the policyholder (policy holder) or the third party,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

against an insurance premium, to pay the insurance in cash or in kind when it is due
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any incident from the provisions of Law 2496/1997.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. Because, in the considered case, GROUPAMA PHOENIX requests with it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

capacity of the third party (Article 2 item i of Law 2472/1997) the provision of information that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they also include sensitive personal data (health data) concerning
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to A. He requests the granting of a certificate with the details of all invoices-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

service receipts issued by the "HYGEIA" hospital at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

name of A and more specifically requests the numbers of the invoices, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sums of money corresponding to them, what they related to (e.g. materials, hospitalizations,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

medicine), the amount that has been covered by A's insurance company and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

corresponding documents, the amount of money paid by A, if any
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pay the amount and in case of a negative answer, the amount that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is missing. From the evidence in the case file it appears that the purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing consists in refuting the action brought by A against
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of GROUPAMA PHOENIX before the Magistrate's Court X (Regular Procedure, no.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

filing ..., trial ...), which has been referred for trial pursuant to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under no. ... of a referral decision of the Magistrate's Court X in Polymeles
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Court of First Instance of Athens (Regular Procedure, Summons after Referral, General Court ...,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EAK ..., trial ... following postponement from the original trial ...) after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referral and following a summons filed by A against GROUPAMA
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PHOENIX. With his lawsuit, A requests that GROUPAMA PHOENIX pay him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

jointly and severally and in the entire amount corresponding to the costs of the operation and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his hospitalization at the "HYGEIA" hospital and which he claims that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he was forced to pay himself. according to GROUPAMA's claims
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PHOENIX, A has not yet proved that he has an obligation to pay him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the cost of surgery and his hospitalization, which, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he claims to have paid himself and the relevant amount is requested in his lawsuit. As cm
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

therefore, requests to receive from the requesting hospital, a certificate with the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mentioned data, which will contain health data of A, in this case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

these to be taken into account by the court, in order to judge whether the applicant is insured
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company has the above obligation.
  

 

 

 

 

 

4. Because the intended processing purpose is consistent with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aforementioned provision of article 7 par. 2 item c' of Law 2472/1997, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at the same time, the principle of data proportionality is fulfilled (Article 4 par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 pc. b' of Law 2472/1997) as the granting of the requested data is judged
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relevant, appropriate and necessary for the intended purpose of the defense
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

right before a court (refutation of A's action against her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GROUPAMA PHOENIX pending for adjudication before the Multimember
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Court of First Instance of Athens).
  

 

 

 

3


FOR THOSE REASONS

 

 

 

 

 
The Authority grants a license to the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Center Athens Hygeia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
S.A. to grant GROUPAMA PHOENIX a certificate with the above

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
mentioned content, which he will use in the context of the lawsuit

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of her dispute with A after the "HYGEIA" Hospital has previously informed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
the A.

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
The Honorable President

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
The Secretary

 

 

 
George Batzalexis

 

              

 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

4

