Decision

Diary no

2020-12-02

DI-2019-3841

The Health and Medical Services Board at
Region Västerbotten
Köksvägen 11
901 89 Umeå

Supervision according to the data protection regulation and
the patient data act — needs and risk analysis
and questions about access in medical records systems
Table of Contents
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision................................................... ..................................... 3
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ............................ 4
Previous review of needs and risk analyses................................................. 4
What emerged in the case................................................ .......................... 5
Personal data controller................................................... ................................ 5
Journal system................................................... ................................................ 5
The number of patients and employees................................................... ...................... 6
Internal confidentiality................................................... ................................................ 6
Needs and risk analysis................................................... ................................... 6
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about
patients................................................... ................................................ ...... 7
Access possibilities (read permission) to care documentation in NCS Cross
................................................ ................................................ .................... 8
Restrictions on access to data in NCS Cross............................................ 9
Coherent record keeping................................................ ....................... 10
Needs and risk analysis................................................... ................................... 10
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about
patients................................................... ................................................ ..... 10
Access possibilities (read permission) to care documentation in NCS Cross
................................................... ................................................... ................... 10
Restrictions on access to data in NCS Cross................................... 10

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

Page 1 of 29

1 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

Documentation of the access (logs)................................................ .............. 10
Justification of the decision................................................... ........................................... 11
Applicable rules................................................ ................................................ 11
The Data Protection Ordinance the primary source of law................................... 11
The Data Protection Regulation and the relationship with supplementary national
regulations................................................ ............................................... 13
Complementary national provisions................................................... .. 14
Requirement to carry out a needs and risk analysis................................... ........... 15
Internal confidentiality................................................... ................................................ 16
Coherent record keeping................................................ ....................... 16
Documentation of access (logs)................................................ ................... 17
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ........................... 17
Personal data controller's responsibility for security.............................................. 17
Needs and risk analysis................................................... ....................................... 18
The Health and Medical Services Board's work with needs and risk analysis...... 20
A need and risk analysis must be carried out at a strategic level............................ 21
The Data Inspectorate's summary assessment................................... 21
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about
patients................................................... ................................................ .... 22
Documentation of the access (logs)................................................ ............. 24
Choice of intervention................................................... ................................................... 25
Legal regulation................................................ .............................................. 25
Order................................................. ................................................... 25
Penalty fee................................................... ............................................... 26
How to appeal............................................... ............................................. 29

Page 2 of 29

2 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Danish Data Protection Authority has during the review on 14 May 2019 and 12 December
In 2019, it was established that the Health Care Board at Region Västerbotten
processes personal data in violation of Article 5.1 f and 5.2 and Article 32.1
0ch 32.2 of the data protection regulation1 by
1.

The Health and Medical Services Board has not carried out needs and
risk analysis before assigning authorizations takes place in the records system
NCS Cross, in accordance with ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act
(2008:355) and ch. 4. § 2 The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general
advice (HSLF-FS 2016:40) on record keeping and treatment of
personal data in healthcare. This means that Health and
the health care board has not taken appropriate organizational measures
in order to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing of
the personal data has a security that is suitable in relation to
the risks.

2. The Norwegian Health and Welfare Board has not limited the users' rights
authorizations for access to the records system NCS Cross to what
only needed for the user to be able to fulfill their
duties within health care in accordance with
4 ch. § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 § 2 HSLF-FS
2016:40. This means that the Health and Medical Services Board does not have
taken measures to be able to ensure and be able to demonstrate a suitable
security of personal data.
Datainspektionen decides with the support of articles 58.2 and 83 i
data protection regulation and ch. 6 Section 2 of the Act (2018:218) with
supplementary regulations to the EU's data protection regulation that the Health and Medical Board, for the violations of article 5.1 f and 5.2 as well as
article 32.1 0ch 32.2 of the data protection regulation, must pay a
administrative sanction fee of 2,500,000 (two million
five hundred thousand) kroner.

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection
for natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow
of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).
1

Page 3 of 29

3 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

Datainspektionen orders with the support of article 58.2 d i
the data protection regulation The Health and Medical Services Board to implement and
document the required needs and risk analysis for the records system NCS
Cross and then, with the support of the needs and risk analysis, assign each
user individual authorization for access to personal data to only
what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill his duties
in healthcare, in accordance with Article 5.1 f and Article 32.1 and
32.2 of the data protection regulation, ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and
4 ch. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Data Protection Authority initiated supervision by means of a letter on 22 March 2019 and
have on site on 14 May 2019 and on 12 December 2019 reviewed whether the Health and Medical Services Board's decision on the allocation of authorizations has been preceded
of a needs and risk analysis. The review has also covered how the Health and Medical Services Board assigned authorizations for access to
the main records system NCS Cross, and what access capabilities they allocated
the authorizations provide both within the framework of the internal secrecy according to ch. 4.
the patient data act, such as the integrated record keeping according to ch. 6
the patient data act. In addition to this, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has also reviewed which
documentation of access (logs) contained in the records system.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has only reviewed the user's access options
the journal system, i.e. which care documentation the user can actually take
part of and read. The supervision does not include which functions are included in
the authorization, i.e. what the user can actually do in the records system
(e.g. issuing prescriptions, writing referrals, etc.).
Previous review of needs and risk analyses
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has previously carried out an inspection regarding the former
The County Council, Västerbotten County's County Council had carried out one
documented needs and risk analysis according to ch. 2 Section 6 second paragraph second
the meaning of the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations (SOSFS 2008:14) re
information management and record keeping in healthcare. Of
The Data Inspectorate's decision with diary number 1615-2013, announced on 27
March 2015, it appears that the County Council Board did not meet the requirement that

Page 4 of 29

4 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

carry out a needs and risk analysis according to the aforementioned regulations, and
was therefore recommended to implement one for the main journal system.
What emerged in the case
The Health and Medical Services Board has essentially stated the following.
Personal data controller
On 1 January 2019, a reorganization took place which meant that Region
Västerbotten was formed. There is no authority under Health and
the health care board. The Health and Medical Services Board conducts health and
healthcare within the region and is responsible for the processing of personal data
personal data that the business carries out in the main journal system NCS Cross.
Journal system
The main journal system used is called NCS Cross and stands for Nordic
Clinical Suite. It is possible to access care documentation in NCS Cross
from and including 1993 when the system was introduced. At that time was
permission assignment more limited and users had access to
fewer tasks than in today's system. The so-called Employee Assignments
added in 2014–2015. The employee assignments regulate which organizational
level access can occur in NCS Cross and is required to access the system.
NCS Cross is used within the framework of coherent record keeping
along with seven other caregivers.
In connection with the data protection regulation starting to be applied did
the supplier a general review of the system and informed that
no functional adaptations had to be made.
There are 101 databases in NCS Cross based on the principle that every clinic has one
own database. Within Region Västerbotten, the number of units is 84 (active
databases). Within NCS Cross there are so-called protected units.
In NCS Cross, it is possible to control the staff's access options
different ways in terms of authorization control, including through
the employee assignments and functions to block the journal.
Protected information, about patients with a protected identity at the Swedish Tax Agency, is
not available in NCS Cross.

Page 5 of 29

5 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

The number of patients and employees
The number of unique registered patients in NCS Cross within the framework of the internal
the confidentiality is 652,995. The number of patients who are registered within the framework
for coherent record keeping is 665,564.
There are approximately 10,000 employees within Region Västerbotten. Within the region
9,139 users have a valid employee assignment and active account in NCS
Cross. The number of active user accounts within the region is 12,366. The reason
to the difference in the number of users is that the businesses have not reported
to the administration that the authorization should be terminated. Access to NCS Cross
is still stopped because the users who do not have an employee assignment
unable to log into the application. The process is automated so that the AD account and thus also the employee assignment is closed automatically when
the employment ends.
Internal confidentiality
Needs and risk analysis
From the Data Inspectorate's decision from 27 March 2015, it appears that
The County Council, Västerbotten County's county council, was instructed to produce one
documented needs and risk analysis for the main record system.
Against this background, the Health and Medical Board has stated, among other things
following.
The Health Care Board has followed the Data Inspectorate's previous decision
and produced the documents Guidelines for information security and
management and operation as well as Template – Needs and risk analysis at
authorization assignment. The guidance document and template have been established to provide
the operational managers tools in connection with the authorization assignment.
The User Profiles documents are examples that make it clear that permissions
not awarded generally but individually. The documents are also examples of
carried out analyzes in the case of actual authority allocations within various
units.2 The needs and risk analysis is done based on the operational perspective and
not from the privacy perspective.

2

The documents have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority.

Page 6 of 29

6 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

The board does not know to what extent the template Template – Needs and risk analysis
when assigning permissions is used out in the business, when you only see
the result of the authorization order itself. The committee has assumed that
the business managers carry out a needs and risk analysis before ordering
permissions. However, the board has not seen any documented needs and
risk analysis neither for the internal secrecy nor for the cohesive one
record keeping.
The guidelines for information security state that authorization must be assigned
after an analysis of which information different personnel categories in different
businesses need. The guidelines also state that the risk analysis must take
consideration of the risks it may entail if the staff has too little or too much
a lot of access to various patient data. As the needs vary between different
types of operations, the operations manager is responsible for need- and
risk analysis is carried out at unit level. According to the guidelines, the business must
document the needs and risk analysis when assigning
employee assignment.
The guidelines also state, among other things, that in addition to regular checks
of the users' authorization needs, the authorizations must be reviewed according to
organizational and system change.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
The Health and Medical Services Board has essentially stated the following.
For an executive to be able to access personal data in NCS Cross
several prerequisites need to be met. The executive must have one
active user account in the region's domain (AD). This in turn presupposes that
the executive is registered in the HR system. To be able to log in
the domain requires executives to have a SITHS card with one or more valid ones
certificate. In order to then be able to log in to NCS Cross, you need
the executive partly has a valid so-called employee assignment, partly has become
awarded a qualification in NCS Cross. The employee assignment regulates which
organizational level access can take place in NCS Cross. It is
the operational managers of the various units who decide on the allocation of
employee assignment to their staff at the care unit.

Page 7 of 29

7 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

Two-step authentication "that you really are who you are" and that the access
closed to the user when he quits are examples of actual actions such as
taken to prevent unnecessary dissemination of personal data.
The authority assigned to the staff is based on the needs analysis that is carried out
prior to the assignment, i.e. where and with what the employee works.
For example, counselors and physiotherapists may be employed in different units,
which means that they have more employee assignments and thus must be given
authorization to more devices. The same applies to emergency physicians who also have
access to more units than the own emergency database.
Staff access to databases is based on the need that exists. One
employee assignment can thus mean that an employee can be authorized
to several databases. A nurse at the Neurocentrum can, for example, receive one
employee assignment with authorization to eight databases because the clinic has
eight databases and the nurse's work requires access to all of them.
Access possibilities (read permission) to care documentation in NCS Cross
Each employee has a reading authorization that is adapted based on the individual
mission. If an employee is assigned reading authorization within the entire Region
In Västerbotten, it only applies to care documentation. Protected devices are
excluded.
In the NCS Cross authorization control system, there are two types of authorizations
Own authority, partly Service role.
Own authorization means that an executive is given access to them
functions in the records system that are relevant to the executive
tasks, for example prescribing medicines. Own authority
also means that the executive is given read and write access to them
parts of the records system (databases) that are connected to it or them
care units where the executive is active.
Authorization according to Job role means that an executive is also given
read access to other databases in the records system. The executive can
then the service role Read permission VLL is given which means access possibility
(read access) to all units' care documentation in the Region
Västerbotten, except protected units. Executives can be assigned a
other reading permission than Reading permission VLL. Read permission to

Page 8 of 29

8 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

personal data of protected entities is given only within the framework of assignment of
Own authority.
The module that manages the journal in NCS Cross is titled
Care documentation. The module contains all documentation available about
the patient in accordance with ch. 2 4 § 1 of the Patient Data Act. There are also others
modules, for example Care Administration which contain data in accordance
with 2 ch. 4 § 2 of the Patient Data Act.
The doctors are almost always assigned Reading authorization VLL. Regarding
the nurses are often ordered Reading authorization VLL, which means that a
the majority of nurses are assigned this reading authorization. Have the staff
assigned write permission in the system means that the staff also have
read permission in it. The number of executives who have Reading authorization VLL i
NCS Cross is a total of 7,586. Of these, 2,290 are doctors, 3,759 are nurses,
124 are assistant nurses including children's nurses and 956 are paramedics.
The information applies to December 2019.
Restrictions on access to data in NCS Cross
There are no direct obstacles to introducing limiting functions
the read permission and thus the access in NCS Cross. The system enables
assigning permissions that give users different access possibilities.
It can be done on an individual level. You can also restrict access to some
units. Technically, it is, for example, possible to exclude BUP from
access possibilities. The business managers can limit access and control
permissions so that staff on a device only have access to data
about care and treatment on the unit in question and not such information on others
units.
Within NCS Cross 84 units are the following six protected units. 1) The device
clinical genetics, 2) The unit child and youth rehabilitation 3) Section
the child and youth habilitation within the child and youth clinic unit
Västerbotten 4) Children's house section, within the children's unit
youth psychiatry Västerbotten 5) Occupational health care 6) The LSS units
within disability activities, Vision and hearing rehabilitation and Support and
habilitation for adults and the exercise of authority section in the Support unit
and habilitation for adults.

Page 9 of 29

9 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

An active selection for access is required by the user when the patient has blocked his
care documentation.
Coherent record keeping
The Health and Medical Services Board has essentially stated the following.
Needs and risk analysis
The template Template – Needs and risk analysis for authorization allocation also applies
for the coherent record keeping. Needs analysis that is done before
permission assignment also includes analysis for access within the context of
coherent record keeping.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
If an employee has been assigned read permission in the internal confidentiality, it means
that he has also been assigned read permission for the coherent record keeping.
Access possibilities (read permission) to care documentation in NCS Cross
The read permission within the consolidated record keeping is the same as
for the inner secrecy. This means that the staff can take part in everything
care documentation about all patients that are in the system for it
coherent record keeping. As a basis for this lies
employee assignment.
Restrictions on access to data in NCS Cross
The employees must make active choices to access information in it
keep the records together, i.e. answer the question of whether the patient has given
their consent or alternatively state that there is an emergency in order to participate
of the data.
Documentation of the access (logs)
The Health and Medical Services Board has stated, among other things, the following.
Every time a user enters NCS Cross, the activity is logged. The search on
a patient can be registered on social security number or reserve number. According to
the guidelines, the system must select ten users out of one once a month
unit. In such a log check, all patient records are displayed as respective
user opened for login during the checked log period as well
all activities done in the care portal: time, activity, social security number,

Page 10 of 29

1 0 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

patient, record, information, staff, title, location, client, purpose
and date.
In the log extract, it is stated under the heading Assignee at which unit
the measures have been taken, i.e. which care unit's employee assignment
the user used when logging in. Under the heading Journal it is stated
database from which the staff retrieved data, i.e. at which
care unit documentation the user reads.
The database called Medicincentrum contains care documentation from two
care units, partly Medical Centre, partly Heart Centre. If for example
login is done in the Medicincentrum database by a doctor who works at
the Medicincentrum unit, the log extract indicates Medicincentrum
both under the heading Principal and the heading Journal. About the doctor
however, working at Hjärtcentrum appears in the log extract under the heading
Client to be specified Hjärtcentrum.
The log entries generated relate to both the internal privacy and the
coherent record keeping.
The Health and Medical Services Board has submitted to the Data Inspectorate
log extract with documentation of the accesses (logs) created with
reason for the inspection's review.

Justification of the decision
Applicable rules
The Data Protection Regulation the primary legal source
The Data Protection Regulation, often abbreviated GDPR, was introduced on May 25, 2018 and
is the primary legal regulation when processing personal data. This
also applies in healthcare.
The basic principles for processing personal data are stated in
Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation. A basic principle is the requirement of
security according to Article 5.1 f, which states that the personal data must be processed
in a way that ensures appropriate security for the personal data,
including protection against unauthorized or unauthorized processing and against loss,

Page 11 of 29

1 1 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

destruction or damage by accident, using appropriate
technical or organizational measures.
From article 5.2 it appears that the so-called the liability, i.e. that it
personal data controller must be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that the basic
the principles in point 1 are complied with.
Article 24 deals with the responsibility of the personal data controller. Of Article 24.1
it appears that the person in charge of personal data is responsible for carrying out appropriate
technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that
the processing is carried out in accordance with the data protection regulation. The actions shall
carried out taking into account the nature, scope and context of the treatment
and purpose as well as the risks, of varying degree of probability and seriousness, for
liberties and rights of natural persons. The measures must be reviewed and updated
if necessary.
Article 32 regulates security in connection with processing. According to point 1
must the personal data controller and the personal data assistant with consideration
of the latest developments, implementation costs and treatment
nature, scope, context and purpose as well as the risks, of varying nature
degree of probability and seriousness, for the rights and freedoms of natural persons
take appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a
security level that is appropriate in relation to the risk (…). According to point 2 shall
when assessing the appropriate security level special consideration is given to the risks
which the processing entails, in particular from accidental or unlawful destruction,
loss or alteration or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to
the personal data transferred, stored or otherwise processed.
Recital 75 states that when assessing the risk of natural persons
rights and freedoms, different factors must be taken into account. Among other things are mentioned
personal data subject to confidentiality, information about health or
sexual life, if there is processing of personal data concerning vulnerable physical
persons, especially children, or if the treatment involves a large number
personal data and applies to a large number of registered users.
Furthermore, it follows from reason 76 that how probable and serious the risk for it
Data subjects' rights and freedoms should be determined based on the processing
nature, scope, context and purpose. The risk should be evaluated on

Page 12 of 29

1 2 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

basis of an objective assessment, through which it is determined whether
the data processing involves a risk or a high risk.
Recitals 39 and 83 also contain writings that provide guidance on it
closer to the meaning of the data protection regulation's requirements for security at
Processing of personal data.
The Data Protection Regulation and the relationship with supplementary national
regulations
According to Article 5.1. a in the data protection regulation, the personal data must
processed in a legal manner. In order for the treatment to be considered legal, it is required
legal basis in that at least one of the conditions in Article 6.1 is met.
Provision of health care is one such task of generality
interest referred to in Article 6.1. e.
In healthcare, the legal bases can also be legal
obligation according to Article 6.1. c and exercise of authority according to article 6.1.e
updated.
When it comes to the question of the legal bases legal obligation, generally
interest and the exercise of authority are given to the Member States, according to Article
6.2, retain or introduce more specific provisions to adapt
the application of the provisions of the Regulation to national conditions.
National law can further determine specific requirements for data processing
and other measures to ensure legal and fair treatment. But
there is not only a possibility to introduce national rules but also a
duty; Article 6.3 states that the basis for the processing referred to in
paragraph 1 c and e shall be determined in accordance with Union law or
national law of the Member States. The legal basis may also include
special provisions to adapt the application of the provisions of
data protection regulation. Union law or Member States' national law
right must fulfill an objective of public interest and be proportionate to it
legitimate goals pursued.
Article 9 states that treatment of special categories of
personal data (so-called sensitive personal data) is prohibited. Sensitive
personal data includes, among other things, information about health. Article 9.2 states
the exceptions where sensitive personal data may still be processed.

Page 13 of 29

1 3 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

Article 9.2 h states that processing of sensitive personal data may take place if
the processing is necessary for reasons related to, among other things
provision of healthcare on the basis of Union law or
Member States' national law or according to agreements with professionals on
health area and provided that the conditions and safeguards which
referred to in point 3 are met. Article 9.3 requires regulated confidentiality.
This means that both the legal bases public interest,
exercise of authority and legal obligation such as treatment of sensitive
personal data with the support of the exception in Article 9.2. h needs
supplementary rules.
Supplementary national regulations
For Swedish purposes, both the basis for the treatment and the
the special conditions for processing personal data within health and
healthcare regulated in the Patient Data Act (2008:355), and
the patient data regulation (2008:360). In ch. 1 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act states that
the law supplements the data protection regulation.
The purpose of the Patient Data Act is that information management within health and
healthcare must be organized so that it caters for patient safety and
good quality and promotes cost efficiency. Its purpose is also to
personal data must be designed and otherwise processed so that patients' and
the privacy of other data subjects is respected. In addition, must be documented
personal data is handled and stored so that unauthorized persons do not gain access
them (Chapter 1, Section 2 of the Patient Data Act).
The supplementary provisions in the Patient Data Act aim to
take care of both privacy protection and patient safety. The legislature has
thus, through the regulation, a balance has been made in terms of how
the information must be processed to meet both the requirements for patient safety
such as the right to personal integrity when processing personal data.
The National Board of Health and Welfare has issued regulations with the support of the patient data regulation
and general advice on record keeping and processing of personal data i
health care (HSLF-FS 2016:40). The regulations constitute such
supplementary rules, which must be applied when healthcare providers treat
personal data in healthcare.

Page 14 of 29

1 4 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

National regulations that supplement the data protection regulation's requirements for
security can be found in chapters 4 and 6. the Patient Data Act and chs. 3 and 4 HSLF-FS
2016:40.
Requirements to carry out needs and risk analysis
The care provider must, according to ch. 4. § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40 make a need-and
risk analysis, before assigning authorizations in the system takes place.
That an analysis of the needs as well as the risks is required is evident from the preparatory work
to the Patient Data Act, prop. 2007/08:126 pp. 148-149, as follows.
Authorization for the staff's electronic access to information about patients shall
is limited to what the executive needs to be able to carry out his duties
tasks within health care. It includes, among other things, that permissions should
are followed up and changed or reduced as changes in the individual
the executive's duties give reason for it. The provision
corresponds in principle to Section 8 of the Care Register Act. The purpose of the provision is to
inculcate the duty of the responsible health care provider to make active and
individual authorization assignments based on analyzes of which more
information different personnel categories and different types of operations need. But
not only need analyzes are needed. Risk analyzes must also be done where you take
consideration of various types of risks that may be associated with an overly broad
availability regarding certain types of data. Protected personal data that is
classified as confidential, information about generally known people, information from some
receptions or medical specialties are examples of categories that can
require special risk assessments.
Generally speaking, it can be said that the more comprehensive an information system is, the
greater variety of different authorization levels there must be. Decisive for decisions about
authorization for e.g. different categories of healthcare professionals to
electronic access to data in patient records should be that the authorization must
limited to what the executive needs for the purpose of a good and safe
patient care. A more extensive or coarse-grained authorization assignment should –
although it would have points from an efficiency point of view - considered as one
unjustified dissemination of journal data within a business and should as such
not accepted.
Furthermore, data should be stored in different layers so that more sensitive data requires active
elections or otherwise are not as easily accessible to staff as less sensitive
tasks. In the case of personnel working with operational follow-up,
statistical production, central financial administration and similar activities
which is not individual-oriented, it should be enough for the majority of executives
access to data that can only be indirectly traced to individual patients.
Electronic access to code keys, social security numbers and other data such as

Page 15 of 29

1 5 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

directly pointing out individual patients should be able to be strong in this area
limited to single persons.

Internal confidentiality
The provisions in ch. 4 The Patient Data Act concerns internal confidentiality, i.e.
regulates how privacy protection must be handled within a healthcare provider's operations
and especially employees' opportunities to prepare access to
personal data that is electronically available in a healthcare provider's
organisation.
It appears from ch. 4. Section 2 of the Patient Data Act, that the healthcare provider must decide
conditions for granting authorization to access such information about
patients who are transported fully or partially automated. Such authorization shall
is limited to what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
tasks within health care.
According to ch. 4 § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40, the care provider must be responsible for each
users are assigned an individual authorization for access to
personal data. The healthcare provider's decision on the allocation of authorization shall
preceded by a needs and risk analysis.
Coherent record keeping
The provisions in ch. 6 the Patient Data Act concerns coherent record keeping,
which means that a care provider - under the conditions stated in § 2 of the same
chapter - may have direct access to personal data processed by others
care provider for purposes related to care documentation. Access to
information occurs through a healthcare provider making the information about a patient
which the healthcare provider registers about the patient available to other healthcare providers
who participate in the coherent record keeping (see prop. 2007/08:126 p. 247).
Of ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act follows that the regulations in ch. 4 § 2 also
applies to assignment of authorization in case of joint record keeping. The requirement of
that the care provider must carry out a needs and risk analysis before awarding
authorizations in the system take place, thus also apply in systems for cohesion
record keeping.

Page 16 of 29

1 6 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

Documentation of access (logs)
Of ch. 4 Section 3 of the Patient Data Act states that a healthcare provider must ensure that
access to such patient data that is held in whole or in part
automatically documented and systematically checked.
According to ch. 4 § 9 HSLF-FS 2016:40 the care provider must be responsible for
1. it is clear from the documentation of the access (logs) which
actions taken with data about a patient;
2. the logs show which care unit or care process
the measures have been taken,
3. it is clear from the logs at which time the measures were taken,
4. the identity of the user and the patient can be seen in the logs.

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
Personal data controller's responsibility for security
As previously described, it is stated in article 24.1 of the data protection regulation one
general requirement for the personal data controller to take appropriate technical
and organizational measures. The requirement partly aims to ensure that
the processing of the personal data is carried out in accordance with
the data protection regulation, partly that the person in charge of personal data must be able to
show that the processing of the personal data is carried out in accordance with
data protection regulation.
The security in connection with the treatment is regulated more specifically in the articles
5.1 f and article 32 of the data protection regulation.
Article 32.1 states that the appropriate measures must be both technical and
organizational and that they must ensure a level of security that is appropriate in
relation to the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons which
the treatment entails. It is therefore necessary to identify the possible ones
the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects and assesses
the likelihood of the risks occurring and the severity if they occur.
What is appropriate varies not only in relation to the risks but also
based on the nature, scope, context and purpose of the treatment. It has
thus meaning what kind of personal data is processed, how many
data, the question is, how many people process the data, etc.

Page 17 of 29

1 7 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

Health care has a great need for information in its operations. The
it is therefore natural that the possibilities of digitization are utilized as much as possible
possible in healthcare. Since the Patient Data Act was introduced, one has a lot
extensive digitization has taken place in healthcare. As well as the data collections
size as how many people share information with each other has increased
substantially. This increase means at the same time that the demands on it increase
personal data controller, because the assessment what is an appropriate
safety is affected by the extent of processing.
There is also the issue of sensitive personal data. The information concerns
people who are in a dependent situation when they are in need of care.
It is also often a question of a lot of personal data about each of these
people and the data may over time be processed by very
many people in healthcare. All in all, this places great demands on it
personal data controller.
The data that is processed must be protected against external actors as well
the business as against unauthorized access from within the business. It appears
of article 32.2 that the personal data controller, when assessing the appropriate
security level, in particular must take into account the risks of accidental or illegal
destruction, loss or for unauthorized disclosure or access. In order to
able to know what is an unauthorized access it must
personal data controller is clear about what constitutes an authorized access.
Needs and risk analysis
In ch. 4 § 2 The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations (HSLF-FS 2016:40), which supplement
in the Patient Data Act, it is stated that the care provider must make a needs assessment
risk analysis before assigning authorizations in the system takes place. This means that
national law prescribes requirements for an appropriate organizational measure that shall
is taken before assigning authorizations to the record system takes place.
A needs and risk analysis must partly contain an analysis of the needs, partly a
analysis of the risks based on an integrity perspective that may be associated
with an excessively wide allocation of authorization for access to personal data
about patients. Both the needs and the risks must be assessed based on them
information that needs to be processed in the business, what processes it is
the question of whether and what risks exist for the individual's integrity.

Page 18 of 29

1 8 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

The assessments of the risks need to take place based on organizational level, there
for example, a certain part of the business or task may be more
more sensitive to privacy than another, but also based on the individual level, if that is the case
the question of special circumstances that need to be taken into account, such as for example
that it is a matter of protected personal data or general information
famous people. The size of the system also affects the risk assessment. Of
the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act shows that the more comprehensive one
information system is, the greater the variety of different authorization levels must be
there exist. (prop. 2007/08:126 p. 149).
It is thus a question of a strategic analysis at a strategic level, which should provide a
authority structure that is adapted to the business and this must be maintained
updated.
In summary, the regulation requires that the risk analysis identifies


different categories of data (for example, data about health),



categories of data subjects (for example, vulnerable natural persons and
children), or



the extent (for example, the number of personal data and registered)



negative consequences for data subjects (e.g. damages,
significant social or economic disadvantage, deprivation of rights
and freedoms),

and how they affect the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons at
Processing of personal data. This also applies to internal confidentiality
as with coherent record keeping.
The risk analysis must also include special risk assessments, for example
based on whether there are protected personal data that are
classified as confidential, information about publicly known people, information from
certain receptions or medical specialties (prop. 2007/08:126 p. 148149).
The risk analysis must also include an assessment of how likely and how serious
the risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects is and in any case determine
whether it is a question of a risk or a high risk (reason 76).
It is thus through the needs and risk analysis that it
data controller finds out who needs access, which

Page 19 of 29

1 9 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

data the access possibility must include, at which times and in which
context the access is needed, and at the same time analyzes the risks to it
individual freedoms and rights that the processing may lead to. The result shall
then lead to the technical and organizational measures needed to
ensure that no other access than that which is necessary and
the risk analysis shows is justified should be able to take place.
When a needs and risk analysis is missing prior to granting authorization i
system, there is no basis for the personal data controller on a legal basis
way must be able to assign their users a correct authorization. The
personal data controller is responsible for, and must have control over, it
personal data processing that takes place within the scope of the business. To
assign users a case of access to the record system, without this being established
on a performed needs and risk analysis, means that the personal data controller
does not have sufficient control over the personal data processing that takes place in
the record system and also cannot show that he has the control that
is required.
The Health and Medical Services Board's work with needs and risk analysis
When the Swedish Data Protection Authority has requested a documented need and
risk analysis, the Health and Medical Board has stated that the board has done
a needs and risk analysis, but only from the business perspective, not
based on the integrity perspective. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore wants to emphasize that it
it is not enough to carry out a needs analysis. As previously described,
appears from article 32 of the data protection regulation and the National Board of Health and Welfare
regulations, it is required that the Health and Medical Services Board must also make one
risk analysis where the board considers various risks that may be associated with
an excessively wide availability of different types of personal data about patients for
to then weigh the needs of the business against the risks for the individual
integrity. In addition, the personal data controller must, according to i
the data protection regulation's liability requirement according to Article 5, can
show that, among other things, appropriate organizational measures have been taken.
The Health and Medical Services Board has referred to the operational managers
responsible for a needs and risk analysis being carried out. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore wants to
also emphasize that the committee, as the person responsible for personal data, cannot waive
itself the responsibility for the analysis and based on the appropriate technical and
organizational measures. This means that the board should have ensured

Page 20 of 29

2 0 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

the implementation of a needs and risk analysis according to ch. 4 § 2 HSLF-FS
2016:40 and documented it.
A need and risk analysis must be carried out at a strategic level
The Health and Medical Services Board has stated that the board after
Datainspektionen's previous injunction produced documents to give
the operational managers tools when assigning authorizations. The committee has
referred to the documents Guideline for information security - management and
operation and the template Template- Needs and risk analysis when assigning authorizations
The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the guidelines and the template are about
assignment of authorizations and that the documents are based on a need-and
risk analysis must be done in connection with the actual allocation. (In the guidelines
states, for example, that a risk analysis must be carried out to highlight different types of risks
associated with for extensive availability and that documentation of
completed needs and risk analysis must be archived at the unit. In the template
referred to the Patient Data Act and that decisions on allocation must be preceded by a
needs and risk analysis). The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore wants to underline that a
needs and risk analysis must determine an overall authority structure
which in turn shall form the basis of the authorization assignment to be made
for each individual executive. The strategic analysis to be undertaken is
i.e. further than the analysis carried out during the actual allocation of
the permissions. A properly conducted needs and risk analysis is one
prerequisite for a correct assignment of authorizations.
The Health and Medical Services Board has also referred to the documents
User profiles as examples of completed analyzes in actual cases
authorization assignments. The Swedish Data Protection Authority also notes in this case that
it is not a question of any needs and risk analysis.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's summary assessment
As indicated above, in a needs and risk analysis both the needs and
the risks are assessed based on the information that needs to be processed in
the business, which processes it is a question of and which risks to it
individual integrity that exists both organizationally and individually
level. It is thus a question of a strategic analysis at a strategic level, which should
provide the basis for an authorization structure that is adapted to the operations.
It should result in instructions on authorization assignment, but it doesn't
the instructions to the assigner of permissions which is the analysis.

Page 21 of 29

2 1 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

In summary, the Data Inspectorate states that Health and
the medical board has not come in with any documented needs and risk analysis. The board has also stated that it has not seen any
documented such. The Health and Medical Services Board has thus not been able to
show that the board has carried out a needs and risk analysis in the sense that
referred to in ch. 4 § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40, whether within the framework of the internal
confidentiality or within the framework of coherent record keeping. This
means that the Health and Medical Services Board has not taken the appropriate measures
organizational measures in accordance with article 5.1 f and article 31.1 and 31.2 for
to be able to ensure and, in accordance with Article 5.2, to be able to demonstrate that
the processing of the personal data has a security that is suitable in
relation to the risks.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
As has been reported above, a care provider may have a legitimate interest in having
a comprehensive processing of information about the health of individuals. Regardless of this shall
access possibilities to personal data about patients be limited to
what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill his duties.
Regarding the assignment of authorization for electronic access according to ch. 4.
§ 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act, it appears from the preliminary works, prop.
2007/08:126 pp. 148-149, i.a. that there must be different authorization categories in
the journal system and that the authorizations must be limited to what the user
need to provide the patient with good and safe care. It also appears that "one
more extensive or coarse-grained authority assignment should be considered a
unjustified dissemination of medical records within a business and should as
such is not accepted”.
In healthcare, it is the person who needs the data in their work
who may be authorized to access them. This applies both within a
caregivers as between caregivers. It is, as already mentioned, through
the needs and risk analysis that the personal data controller finds out about whom
who needs access, which data the access should cover, at which
times and in which contexts the access is needed, and at the same time
analyzes which risks to the individual's freedoms and rights are
the treatment can lead to. The result should then lead to the technical and
organizational measures needed to ensure that no allocation
of authorization provides further access possibilities than the one that needs and

Page 22 of 29

2 2 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

the risk analysis shows is justified. An important organizational action is to give
instructions to those who have the authority to assign permissions on how to do this
should go to and what should be taken into account so that, with the needs and risk analysis
as a basis, will be a correct authorization assignment in each individual case.
That the Health and Medical Board's allocation of authorizations does not have
preceded by a needs and risk analysis means that the board has not
analyzed the users' needs for access to the data, the risks that
this access may entail and thus also not identified which
access that users are entitled to based on such analysis. The committee
has thus not used appropriate measures in accordance with Article 32 i
the data protection regulation, to limit users' access to
the patients' personal data in the record system.
This in turn has meant that there has been a risk of unauthorized access and
unjustified dissemination of personal data partly within the framework of the internal
confidentiality, partly within the framework of coherent record keeping.
In the case, it has emerged that the number of registered patients in NCS Cross
within the internal secrecy is just over 650,000 and within the scope of
consolidated record keeping of just over 665,000. In the case, it has also emerged
that there are around 10,000 employees within the region and that just over 7,500
executives have been assigned Reading authorization VLL in NCS Cross. This one
permission gives access (read permission) to all devices
care documentation in Region Västerbotten, except for the one drawn up on
protected devices. Out of a total of 84 units, six are protected
units. In summary, the Swedish Data Protection Authority states that it means
that the majority of employees have had actual access to
the care documentation for the majority of patients in NCS Cross.
Care documentation means that it is a matter of health data, so-called
sensitive personal data according to Article 9.1 of the data protection regulation. By
that the personal data controller only limited access to authorizations
in NCS Cross to data located on protected devices it has thus
there was a risk of unauthorized access and unauthorized dissemination of
personal data partly within the framework of internal confidentiality, partly within the framework
for the coherent record keeping.

Page 23 of 29

2 3 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

The Health and Medical Services Board has stated that an active choice for access is required
by the user when the patient has blocked their care documentation.
The Data Inspection Authority wants to emphasize that an active choice is an increase in integrity
measure but does not constitute such an access restriction as referred to in ch. 4. Section 2
the patient data act. This provision requires the authorization to be limited
to what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
tasks within health care, i.e. only those who need it
the data must have access to them. Of the preparatory work to
patient data act, prop. 2007/08:126, p. 149, it appears that data in addition
need to be stored in different layers so that more sensitive data requires active choices
or otherwise are not as easily accessible to staff as less sensitive
tasks.
Against this background, the Data Inspectorate can state that Hälso- and
the health care board has processed personal data in violation of article 5.1 f
as well as article 32.1 0ch 32.2 of the data protection regulation in that the board does not
has restricted users' permissions to access the records system
NCS Cross to what is only necessary for the user to be able to fulfill
their duties in health and medical care according to ch. 4. § 2 and ch. 6 7
§ the patient data act and ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40. This means that the Health Care Board has not taken measures to be able to ensure
and, in accordance with Article 5.2 of the Data Protection Regulation, be able to show a
appropriate security for the personal data.
Documentation of the access (logs)
Based on the logs that were created due to the inspection
reviews together with the information provided by the committee
the classification in the log extracts states that the
The log extracts show the following:


under the heading Activity, which measures have been taken with
information about a patient, for example to "read".



under the headings Journal at which care unit or care process
the measures have been taken



under the heading Time at which the measures were taken



under the headings Patient and Personal the user's and the patient's
identity.

The Swedish Data Protection Authority states that the documentation of the access (the logs)
in NCS Cross is in accordance with the requirements set out in ch. 4. § 9 HSLF-

Page 24 of 29

2 4 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

FS 2016:40 and that the Health and Medical Board therefore in this part has
taken appropriate technical measures in accordance with Article 32 i
data protection regulation.

Choice of intervention
Legal regulation
If there has been a violation of the provisions of the data protection regulation
the Data Protection Authority has a number of corrective powers to access according to
article 58.2 a - j of the data protection regulation. The supervisory authority can, among other things
otherwise instruct the person in charge of personal data to ensure that the processing takes place
in accordance with the regulation and if required in a specific manner and within
a specific period.
It follows from Article 58.2 of the data protection regulation that the Data Inspectorate i
pursuant to Article 83 shall impose penalty charges in addition to or in lieu of
other corrective measures referred to in Article 58(2), depending
the circumstances of each individual case.
For authorities, according to Article 83.7 of the Data Protection Regulation, national
rules state that authorities can impose administrative penalty fees.
According to ch. 6 § 2 of the Data Protection Act, penalty fees can be decided for
authorities, but to a maximum of SEK 5,000,000 alternatively SEK 10,000,000
depending on whether the violation relates to articles covered by Article 83(4).
or 83.5 of the data protection regulation.
In Article 83.2 of the Data Protection Regulation, the factors to be taken into account are specified
to decide whether an administrative penalty fee should be imposed, but also
what will affect the size of the penalty fee. Of central importance to
the assessment of the seriousness of the violation is its nature, severity and
duration. If it is a question of a minor violation may
the supervisory authority, according to recital 148 of the data protection regulation, issue a
reprimand instead of imposing a penalty fee.
Order
Health care has a great need for information in its operations. The
it is therefore natural that the possibilities of digitization are utilized as much as possible

Page 25 of 29

2 5 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

possible in healthcare. Since the Patient Data Act was written, one has a lot
extensive digitization has taken place in healthcare. As well as the data collections
size as how many people share information with each other has increased
substantially. This increase means at the same time that the demands on it increase
personal data controller, because the assessment what is an appropriate
safety is affected by the extent of processing.
Within health care, this means a great deal of responsibility for it
personal data controller to protect the data from unauthorized access,
among other things by having an authorization assignment that is even more
finely divided. It is therefore essential that there is a real analysis of the needs
based on different businesses and different managers. Equally important is that
there is an actual analysis of the risks based on an integrity perspective
can occur in the event of an excessive assignment of authorization to access. From
this analysis must then be limited to the individual executive's access.
This authorization must then be followed up and changed or restricted accordingly
hand that changes in the individual executive's duties provide
reason for it.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's supervision has shown that the Health and Medical Services Board has
failed to take appropriate security measures to provide protection to
the personal data in the records system NCS Cross by not complying with the requirements
as set out in the Patient Data Act and the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and thereby
does not meet the requirements in Article 5.1 f and Article 32.1 and 32.2 i
data protection regulation. The omission includes the inner as well
confidentiality according to ch. 4 the Patient Data Act as the consolidated
record keeping according to ch. 6 the patient data act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore orders, with the support of 58.2 d i
the data protection regulation, the Health and Medical Board to implement and
document the required needs and risk analysis for the records system NCS
Cross within the framework of the inner secrecy as well as within the framework of it
coherent record keeping. The Health and Medical Services Board shall further,
with the support of the needs and risk analysis, assign each user individually
authorization for access to personal data which is limited to what only
which is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill his duties within
Healthcare.

Page 26 of 29

2 6 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

Penalty fee
The Data Inspectorate can state that the violations basically relate to the Swedish Health and Medical Services Board's obligation to take appropriate security measures for
to provide protection for personal data according to the data protection regulation.
In this case, it is a question of large data collections with sensitive data
personal data and extensive permissions. The caregiver needs to
necessity to have extensive processing of information about individuals' health.
However, it must not be unrestricted, but must be based on what individuals do
employees need to be able to perform their tasks. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
states that it is a question of data that includes direct identification of
the individual through both name, contact details and social security number,
information about health, but it can also be about other private information about
for example, family relationships, sex life and lifestyle. The patient is addicted
of receiving care and is thus in a vulnerable situation. The nature of the data,
extent and the patients' dependency status give care providers a special
responsibility to ensure patients' right to adequate protection for their
personal data.
Further aggravating circumstances are that the treatment of
personal data about patients in the main record system is at the core of a
care provider's activities, that the treatment includes many patients and
the possibility of access concerns a large percentage of the employees. In this case pipes
it is about 650,000 patients within the framework of the internal
confidentiality and around 665,000 patients within its scope
coherent record keeping. Out of a total of 84 care units there are
restrictions on the access possibilities to only six units, the so-called
protected the devices.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can also state that Hälso- and
the health board did not follow the Data Inspection Authority's decision from 27 March 2015.
In the decision, the then County Council Board in Västerbotten County was presented
county council to carry out a documented needs and risk analysis according to it
the then requirement in ch. 2 Section 6, second paragraph, second sentence SOSFS 2008:14,
which corresponds to the current provision in ch. 4. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40. This
is an aggravating circumstance, according to Article 83.2 e i
data protection regulation.

Page 27 of 29

2 7 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

The deficiencies that have now been established have thus been known to Hälso- and
the health care board for several years, which means that the action took place
intentional and thus considered more serious. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
also states that the Health and Medical Services Board's statement that they
analyzes that have subsequently been made are solely based on the operational perspective,
which is particularly serious.
When determining the seriousness of the violations, it can also be established that
the violations also include the fundamental principles of Article 5 i
the data protection regulation, which is among the more serious violations that can
give a higher penalty fee according to Article 83.5 of the Data Protection Regulation.
These factors together mean that is not to be judged as minor
violations without violations that shall lead to an administrative
penalty fee.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority believes that these violations are closely related to
each other. That assessment is based on the fact that the needs and risk analysis must
form the basis for the assignment of the authorizations. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
therefore considers that these violations are so closely related to each other
that they constitute connected data processing according to Article 83.3 i
data protection regulation. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore determines a joint
penalty fee for these violations.
The administrative penalty fee must be effective, proportionate and
deterrent. This means that the amount must be determined so that it
the administrative sanction fee leads to correction, that it provides a preventive measure
effect and that it is also proportionate in relation to current as well
violations as to the solvency of the subject of supervision.
The maximum amount for the sanction fee in this case is SEK 10 million
according to ch. 6 Section 2 of the law (2018:218) with supplementary provisions to the EU's
data protection regulation.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative
the penalty fee must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive
the Data Inspectorate determines the administrative penalty fee for
The Health and Medical Board to 2,500,000 (two million five hundred thousand)
crowns.

Page 28 of 29

2 8 (29)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3841

This decision has been made by the director general Lena Lindgren Schelin after
presentation by IT security specialist Magnus Bergström. At the final
Chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom, the unit managers are also involved in the handling
Katarina Tullstedt and Malin Blixt and the lawyer Caroline Cruz Julander
participated.

Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2020-12-02 (This is an electronic signature)

Appendix: How to pay penalty fee
Copy for information to the Data Protection Officer

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day the decision was announced. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

Page 29 of 29

2 9 (29)

