Drones and 
Data Protection


3
Drones and Data Protection
INDEX
DRONES AND DATA PROTECTION
4
TYPES OF OPERATIONS ACCORDING TO DATA PROCESSING
5
1. OPERATIONS THAT DO NOT INCLUDE THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
6
2. OPERATIONS WITH RISK OF COLLATERAL OR UNINTENTIONAL PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
6
3. OPERATIONS THAT AIM TO PROCESS PERSONAL DATA
7
4. STEPS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE OPERATING A DRONE
8
5. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
10
REFERENCES
12
Index

4
Drones and Data Protection
DRONES AND DATA 
PROTECTION
The widespread use of drones in the civil sector and their exponential growth is an undeniable fact. 
The default configuration of any drone includes at least a GPS and a video camera, and from there, all kinds of data acquisition and processing devices can be added, such as thermal cameras, night vision cameras, 3D scanners, WIFI and/or Bluetooth devices, mobile device detection systems, etc. 
The right to data protection is a fundamental right that guarantees any person's ability to decide about their own personal information. The use of drones with devices like those mentioned in the previous paragraph can have or poses an impact on the right to data protection of individuals and, therefore, may imply an infringement of their rights and freedoms. 
Considering the definition of personal data as "any information about an identified or identifiable natural person," drone operators who record and/or process images, videos, sound, biometric data, geolocation data, telecommunications data related to an identified or identifiable person are subject to the application of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD). 
It should be noted that sometimes a piece of data can directly identify a person, such as their photograph, but at other times identification is not direct and requires additional processing, such as geolocation information, or through enrichment with additional information from other sources, such as the internet, and although the person may not be identifiable at first glance, the final result would be that identification is possible thanks to the cross-referencing of information from different sources. Whether the data collected by drones unequivocally identifies a person or whether their identification can be carried out subsequently, data protection regulations are applicable. 
The specific regulations for the use of airspace work in parallel with the regulations that defend the right to personal data protection in accordance with the general obligations set forth in Article 26 of Royal Decree 1036/2017, of December 15, which regulates the civil use of remotely piloted aircraft, where the obligation to adopt the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the provisions regarding personal data protection and privacy is established. Therefore, in addition to the provisions established by the aforementioned aeronautical regulations, it must be taken into account that the GDPR and the LOPDGDD are fully applicable to any processing of personal data that occurs with the use of a drone, regardless of the professional or recreational context associated with the operation of the drone.
Drones and Data Protection

5
Drones and Data Protection
TYPES OF 
OPERATIONS ACCORDING TO 
DATA PROCESSING
The main applications of drones are video surveillance, infrastructure inspection, topographic surveys, inspections and/or treatments in precision agriculture, and other photography and video services (for film and TV, real estate services, etc.), internet access services, etc. However, the availability of multiple data acquisition devices and increasingly advanced platforms makes the emergence of numerous applications foreseeable. 
From the perspective that strictly pertains to data protection, drone operations can be classified into two main categories according to the purpose of the operation. 
Types of Operations According to Data Processing
On one hand, there are those in which the purpose of the operation inherently involves the processing of personal data, such as video surveillance or monitoring of individuals by any other type of sensor (for example, tracking mobile devices), and on the other hand, there are those operations where the purpose of the operation does not initially include the processing of personal data, such as infrastructure inspection, topographic surveys, land inspections, and other photography and video services, but which could, at a given moment, impact the right to data protection and the privacy of individuals. 
OPERATION 
WITH DRONES
Initially does NOT include the processing 
of personal data (infrastructure 
inspection, topographic surveys, 
land inspections and/or treatments, 
other photography and video services)
1. Without risk of 
processing personal 
data
3. Include the processing of 
personal data intrinsically 
(video surveillance, event recording)
2. With risk of 
unintentional and/or 
inadvertent 
processing of 
personal data
6  
Drones and Data Protection  
1. OPERATIONS THAT DO NOT  
INCLUDE THE PROCESSING OF  
PERSONAL DATA  
This type of operation is the least frequent and may include operations with drones with very basic configurations that may or may not include GPS positioning systems for flight assistance, but lack or do not make use of devices for capturing images, sound, or any other type of personal data or information.  
Also included in this category are recreational operations with drones equipped with GPS and cameras, but in which the use of the captured images is restricted to domestic use or does not allow for the identification of a person in any case.  
In these cases:  
• Before sharing images or videos captured with a drone on the internet, it is necessary to ensure that they do not contain images or data related to people, vehicles, homes, or other objects that may lead to the identification of subjects, and if so, anonymize them using blurring techniques or similar methods.  
Examples:  
• A very low-resolution camera is used that does not capture a defined image of a person's face in such a way that allows for their identification, but the image of that person appears in their home in such a way that the location where they appear may allow for their identification.  
• The image does not allow for the identification of the person driving a vehicle, but does capture their license plate, which would allow for their identification.  
In both cases, it would be necessary to carry out post-processing or editing of the images in order to prevent the identification of individuals through image blurring techniques.  
2. OPERATIONS WITH RISK  
OF COLLATERAL OR UNINTENDED  
PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA  
In operations such as infrastructure inspections, topographic surveys, inspections and/or treatments in agriculture, or other photography and video services (for film, TV, advertising, etc.); although it is not the objective of the operation, there is a risk that personal data may be captured unintentionally or inadvertently. This may occur either because it is inevitable to capture certain images of people in the background, or due to the capture of other types of information (nearby homes, recreational areas, vehicles, etc.), or due to the specific characteristics of the operation, for example, conducting operations outside the visual range of the pilot.  
In these cases, it is necessary to observe the following recommendations:  
• Minimize the presence of people and objects that allow for their identification (swimmers, vehicle license plates, passersby, etc.) in the area of the operation. Conducting flights at times when there is not a large influx of the public or controlling access to the flight area if possible.  
Operations that do not include processing  |  Operations with risk of processing
7  
Drones and Data Protection  
3. OPERATIONS AIMED AT THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA  
This is the case of video surveillance, recording of events, or any other application in which the purpose of the operation intrinsically involves the processing of personal data.  
In these operations, the GDPR and the LOPDGDD apply, as well as what is established in the guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, where limitations on video surveillance through camera systems or video cameras or the tracking of mobile device identifiers are established. In particular, it should be noted that the installation of video cameras in public places for security purposes, both fixed and mobile, is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies.  
Furthermore, it is necessary to observe the following additional recommendations:  
• About the role of the drone operator:  
·· If the processing is carried out on behalf of a third party who decides on the purpose of the images (for example, for video surveillance purposes), this third party will be the data controller, and the drone operator will act as a processor of personal data and must ensure that their relationship with the controller is governed by a contract or a legal act that binds them to the controller and that they act only following the controller's orders. In terms of data protection, the controller is the person who decides on the purpose of the processing, while the processor is the one who processes personal data following the guidelines and instructions set out in a contractual relationship between both.  
Operations aimed at the processing of Personal Data  
• Minimize the capture of images to what is absolutely necessary, reducing the chances that individuals may inadvertently appear in the images, and considering the possibility of not capturing the entire flight, but only those moments that are necessary. This recommendation can be extended to any type of data capture.  
• Promote and apply privacy features by design, such as, for example, adjusting the image resolution to the minimum necessary to fulfill the purpose of the processing, reducing the granularity of geolocation for the same purpose; applying techniques to anonymize images (automatically during capture or procedures to do so immediately afterward) or mechanisms to start and stop data capture at any time during the operation; implementing secure communication protocols that prevent third parties from accessing the transmissions of the captured data or even controlling the device itself, or including mechanisms that allow for the encryption of the captured and stored data on the drone itself.  
• For places where there will inevitably be people, capture images in such a way that individuals cannot be identified, for example, by capturing only from a sufficient distance so that identification is not possible.  
• Avoid processing other types of personal data, such as, for example, the indiscriminate capture of mobile device identifiers.  
• Avoid storing unnecessary information related to individuals. For example, if the images are intended for a topographical survey of a coastal area, it would make no sense to store images that allow for the identification of bathers in that area.
8  
Drones and Data Protection  
For more information on drafting a data processing agreement, you can consult the guide on Guidelines for drafting contracts between controllers and processors.  
·· If the operator acts as the controller:  
They must determine the most appropriate legal basis for carrying out the processing (consent, contract, legal obligation, legitimate interest, etc.). In general, they must comply with the obligations referred to in the GDPR.  
• Choose the most suitable onboard technology for the purpose pursued with the operation and adopt all appropriate privacy by default measures, avoiding the collection and subsequent processing of unnecessary data.  
• Enable mechanisms to carry out the right to information regarding the processing of personal data being conducted, taking into account the peculiarities of drones but without forgetting that the information provided must be clear and transparent, and can be provided by electronic means. Therefore, the most appropriate way to inform those who will be affected by the data processing must be found: informing through signage or information sheets, publications on social media, newspapers, brochures, posters, etc., indicating the identity of the data controller, its purpose, and providing affected individuals with clear and specific guidance for exercising their rights.  
For more information, you can consult the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform.  
• Take appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security adequate to the risks to the rights and freedoms of individuals, particularly to prevent any unauthorized processing during the transmission phase of the captured data.  
• Delete or anonymize any unnecessary personal data as soon as possible after collection.  
• Incorporate privacy-friendly configuration options and default functions as part of a privacy-by-design approach.  
• Make drones as visible and identifiable as possible, with characteristics associated with the controller, ensuring that the operator is also visible and identifiable as the controller of the drone. In this regard, when applicable, the identification and registration requirements referred to in Articles 8, 9, and 10 of Royal Decree 1036/2017 will be taken into account.  
4. STEPS TO BE TAKEN BEFORE OPERATING A DRONE  
When the personal data protection regulations apply (see questions at the end of this text regarding the exception for personal and domestic processing), it is necessary to:  
4.1 Check whether national legislation allows the operation of drones and whether it is necessary to request authorization from the Aeronautical Authorities. When the operation of a drone violates the national aviation regulations to which it is subject, or any other regulations that must be adhered to, it will be considered that the data capture and processing carried out during aerial operations does not comply with the principle of lawfulness set out in the GDPR, and will therefore be subject to the sanctioning regime regarding data protection (without prejudice to the fact that it may also be subject to the sanctioning regime regarding air navigation or other additionally applicable regimes).  
Steps to be taken before operating a drone.
9  
Drones and Data Protection  
4.2  
When defining the campaign or service to be executed using drones, and prior to the development of the operation in which personal data processing is intended, the necessity of conducting a risk assessment regarding the processing for the rights and freedoms of individuals will be analyzed. In the event that the processing falls within the cases established by the GDPR, or the list of mandatory processing established by the AEPD, it will be necessary to carry out a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) with the formalities required by the GDPR. If there is no explicit obligation to conduct a DPIA, carrying it out will always be considered a good practice by the data controller. This will be conducted taking into account the purpose of the operations, the type of drones, and/or the detection technologies used. The impact assessment will be carried out for each type of operation performed, although it is not necessary to conduct the assessment as many times as a particular type of operation is carried out. Finally, if necessary, a prior consultation must be made to the competent data protection authority as referred to in Article 36 of the GDPR.  
4.3  
If the necessity analysis concludes that a DPIA is not required, but reveals the possibility that the operation may pose potential risks to the personal data protection of the affected individuals, a risk analysis must be conducted in order to adopt the necessary safeguards to mitigate, as much as possible, such risks and their potential consequences for the rights and freedoms of individuals. For its execution, the Risk Analysis Guide from the Spanish Data Protection Agency can be consulted.  
4.4  
If images are captured for personal use, it is essential to consider that they should not be published on the internet in a manner that makes them accessible to an indeterminate number of people when it is possible to identify individuals or when they show private use spaces such as homes, gardens, terraces, etc. It should be noted that even in cases where it is a personal or domestic processing to which data protection regulations do not apply, the information captured by the drone may affect the right to honor, personal and family privacy, and the image of individuals.  
4.5  
Prior evaluation of the objectives of the operation ensuring the physical safety of the flight and compliance with aviation regulations.  
Steps to be taken before operating a drone.
10  
Drones and Data Protection  
Frequently Asked Questions  
5. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS  
Question 1: My client has commissioned me to create a promotional piece for their hotel. I have produced a report featuring guests in the spa areas, pool, and sports facilities. Can my client publish it on their website? Can I publish it on YouTube to promote my photography services?  
Answer: In this case, your client is responsible for the processing of the images you have captured because they decide on the purpose of the images. To publish images of their clients on their hotel website, they would need to obtain the express consent of those clients; the absence of consent could constitute a violation of the GDPR. Furthermore, images of individuals, for example, in spa or pool areas, may affect their right to honor, privacy, and image, as well as pose a greater risk concerning the right to data protection.  
If the images of hotel clients are published on YouTube or any publicly accessible portal to promote your services, you will be making a decision regarding the purpose of those images, which makes you responsible for the processing, and, like the hotel owner for whom you work, you will need the express consent of each and every person whose images you intend to publish or apply masks or pixelation to prevent individuals from being identifiable. In this case, it is advisable to capture images from a distance or with a resolution that prevents the identification of individuals.  
Question 2: I am a drone operator hired to inspect public roads. The drone uses a camera and a GPS device to georeference the photographs it takes when we detect a defect in the roadway. Occasionally, we capture images of vehicle license plates or even their occupants; we understand that since we do not process these images, data protection regulations do not apply.  
Answer: Capturing images of individuals or vehicle license plates and their recording and storage involves the processing of personal data and, therefore, data protection regulations apply. Therefore, it would be advisable to choose a time when there is less traffic to minimize the recording of images of individuals or vehicle license plates. If it is ultimately not possible to avoid capturing images of individuals or vehicle license plates, a post-processing of images should be carried out to eliminate any data that allows for the identification of individuals.  
Question 3: I use a drone to monitor a property. Where can I place the surveillance area sign?  
Answer: When a drone performs image capture functions for the purpose of monitoring private places, the GDPR will apply, which implies, among other things, the need to comply with the information duty under Article 13, the creation of a record of processing activities, or the adoption of security measures based on the risk analysis conducted.
11  
Drones and Data Protection  
Frequently Asked Questions  
The duty to inform about the processing of personal data for security purposes that includes image capture must be addressed through informative posters at the entrances to monitored areas and in a visible manner. The informative poster, in addition to indicating the purpose, for example, with an image, must contain information about the data controller and how affected individuals can exercise their rights.  
In any case, it must take into account the provisions of Article 22 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights.  
For more information on the requirements and limitations for image capture for surveillance and security purposes, you can consult the guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes from the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.  
Question 4: I use a drone to make recordings that I view personally and I do not distribute images on the internet or with third parties. I only capture images of myself and my family, although on occasions I may capture images of spaces where people live or people who transit in the spaces where I carry out the recordings. I understand that my activity falls within a family or domestic use and that data protection regulations do not apply to me, is that correct?  
Answer: The activity proposed is an exclusively personal or domestic activity to the extent that it is carried out by a natural person and has no connection with any professional or commercial activity, therefore data protection regulations or what is established in this guide do not apply. In any case, it is necessary to take into account the obligation to respect private areas (such as gardens, patios, terraces, the interior of homes, etc.) and all those areas where there is a reasonable expectation of privacy, even in public areas.  
There must be responsible use of drones, ensuring the right to data protection and the right to honor and privacy of individuals, without prejudice to compliance with any other regulations that may apply depending on the context of the activity that may be carried out with a drone.  
Question 5: I am a hobbyist and I use a drone for sports or aeromodelling purposes. Sometimes I connect a camera and record the flight; I understand that this is for private use and that data protection regulations do not apply. Sometimes I share images of the flights with other hobbyists, so if any identifiable person appears in these images, I wonder if I need to ask for consent.  
Answer: This question is related to the previous one, as we are essentially dealing with a personal or domestic use, even when it is proposed to operate the drone in public areas.  
It is important to emphasize the obligation to respect private areas and those where there is a reasonable expectation of privacy. On the other hand, the domestic exception will apply as long as the collection of images is carried out without associating the images of subjects with additional identification or indexing of the recording contents, without systematic monitoring of areas or people (for example, through zoom or the creation of recording banks), and if the distribution is genuinely limited to a domestic circle that does not affect the rights and freedoms of individuals.  

12  
Drones and Data Protection  
Finally, as a responsible and respectful practice, it is recommended that once the sporting or recreational purpose has ended, any parts of the recordings that capture identifiable persons be deleted or blurred. It is also advisable to minimize data collection when it does not affect the purpose of the activity, for example, by not adding audio or excessive resolution that allows for post-processing.  
REFERENCES  
• European Commission: aerospace industries  
• State Agency for Air Safety  
• REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR)  
• Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights  
• Organic Law 1/1982, of May 5, on the civil protection of the right to honor, personal and family privacy, and one's own image  
• Royal Decree 1036/2017, of December 15, regulating the civil use of remotely piloted aircraft  
• Opinion 01/2015 on privacy and data protection in relation to the use of unmanned aircraft  
• Legal report from the Spanish Agency for Data Protection on the processing of personal data through the use of drones  
• Study on Privacy, data protection and ethical risks in civil Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems operations  
• Guide on the use of video cameras  
• Practical Guide for Data Protection Impact Assessments  
• Practical Guide for Risk Analysis for the Processing of Personal Data  
References  

www.aepd.es  
@aepd_es