 

Case number: NAIH-5896-1/2021.
 
(NAIH/2020/1000.)
 
(NAIH/2019/3200.)
 
 

Subject: decision establishing a violation of law

H A T A R O Z A T

 
The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: the Authority) is a
at the request of a natural person (hereinafter: Applicant) at [...] (seat: [...]);
company registration number: […]; hereinafter: the Respondent) was initiated against the data protection authorities
in the procedure - in which the Authority included the condominium at […] (hereinafter: Condominium)
involved as a customer - makes the following decisions:
 
The Authority
 
1) reject the Applicant's request against the Application.

 
2) From the office, it is known that

- the condominium manages personal data based on an inappropriate legal basis a
in connection with camera surveillance, violated natural persons a
on the protection of personal data in terms of processing and that such data is free
(EU) on the flow and repeal of Directive 95/46/EC
Regulation 2016/679 (hereinafter: general data protection regulation) Article 6 (1)
paragraph;

- the Társasház operates cameras monitoring public areas without a legal basis, in violation

thereby Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation;

- the condominium violated Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the basic principle of accountability according to Article 5 (1) point f).
principle of integrity and confidentiality;

- the Condominium did not provide Article 13 (1)-(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
information related to camera surveillance

according to paragraph
about data management.

 
3) Officially instructs the Társasház that if it wishes to continue its data management
in connection with camera surveillance

- that

do it

legal, based on appropriate

legal basis, it is necessary for that
having carried out an interest assessment, in accordance with Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
requirements of the legal basis according to point f) of paragraph;

- do not operate cameras monitoring public areas, i.e. eliminate them
data management in connection with cameras or change the viewing angle of cameras;

- handle personal data based on appropriate data management and access rules
in conjunction with camera surveillance in order to ensure that it is only security
a person with professional qualifications as a guard, bodyguard, security guard or security organizer
access the live images transmitted by the cameras and recorded by them
for recordings;

- provide appropriate information in Article 13 (1)-(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation

information covering specific information for those concerned.

 

 ................................................... ................................................... ................................................... ................................................... ................................................... ..............

1055 Budapest
Falk Miksa utca 9-11

Phone: +36 1 391-1400
Fax: +36 1 391-1410

ugyfelszolgalat@naih.hu
www.naih.hu



 

2

* * *

 
 
Taking the measures prescribed in point 3) from the receipt of this letter to the Társasház
must be in writing within 45 days - with the submission of supporting evidence
together - certify to the Authority.
 
In case of non-fulfilment of the obligation prescribed in point 3), the Authority shall order a
implementation of the decision.
 
There is no place for administrative appeal against this decision, but from the announcement
within 30 days from the date of issue, with a letter of claim addressed to the Capital Tribunal
can be challenged in a lawsuit. The claim must be submitted to the Authority electronically, which
forwards it to the court together with the case documents. The request for the holding of the trial is submitted by the
must be indicated in the application. For those who do not receive full personal tax exemption
the fee for the administrative lawsuit is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record the fee. The capital city
Legal representation is mandatory in court proceedings.
 
 

I N D O C O L A S

system

 
 
I. Procedure of the procedure
 
1. In the request received by the Authority on March 28, 2019, the Applicant submitted a data protection
initiated the conduct of an official procedure and requested the representative of the Társasház
Investigation of the requested data management.
 
The Applicant stated that at the condominium general meeting held in May 2012, the
regarding the installation of a camera system, 58 of the 180 owners voted yes and 8 voted no
received, which does not reach CXXXIII of 2003 on condominiums. law (hereinafter:
Thtv.) the requirement according to paragraph (1) of § 25, according to which the closed system
electronic monitor equipped with a technical solution
on the establishment and
operation of the general meeting is at least two-thirds of the total ownership share
may decide with the affirmative vote of co-owners with a majority. As a result, the
According to the applicant's point of view, the applicant illegally operates the
camera system.
 
According to the Applicant's statement, he also complained that he was transmitting the images of the camera system
monitor is located in the office of the Respondent's executive, where many people visit. That way
for example, the five owners of the condominium indicated in writing that the manager of the Respondent and the
the chairman of the audit committee watched the camera for a long time in their presence, the auditor
and the chairman of the committee specifically watched the owners coming in and out of the houses, respectively
who is talking to whom. In support of this, the Applicant attached the five
statement written by a co-owner.
 
In addition to the above, the Applicant submitted that since 2012, no
the name and contact information of the operator of the camera system were posted, as a
According to the applicant, the manager of the applicant is the operator, who is, however, a multiple request
despite this, he could not demonstrate the qualifications required to operate the camera system
proof document.
 
According to the request, there is also no mandatory inscription in the condominium stating that
"there is a camera system in the apartment building".

 

 



3

 
The Applicant asked the Authority to reprimand the Applicant, as - his position
according to - violated the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, prohibit it
data management until the Respondent fulfills the requirements of the law. The Applicant
also requested that the Authority oblige the Applicant to provide the camera images
place the broadcast monitor in accordance with the regulations, name the camera system
the name and contact information of the operator.
 
The Applicant also requested the imposition of a fine in the event of a violation of the law, but as such,
so that it is not paid from the account of the Condominium.
 
 
II. Clarification of the facts
 
In its order on the initiation of the official data protection procedure, the Authority notified the
He invited the applicant to make a statement and provide information in order to clarify the facts.
 
Based on the Applicant's statement and the supporting documents
it could be established that the case directly affects the rights and legitimate interests of the Condominium. THE
In order to clarify the facts, the Társasház considered it necessary
its invitation to make a statement, therefore the Authority on the general administrative procedure
solo 2016 CL. Act (hereinafter referred to as: Act) with regard to Section 10 (1) of the Client
granted him legal status.
 
2. According to the statement of the Applicant - which provides joint representation of the Condominium - a
on the establishment and operation of the camera system, the general meeting of the Társasház on May 24, 2012
decided on 13/05/24/2012. with decision no. After that, it is related to the camera system
general meeting resolution was passed on May 31, 2018, by which resolution the general meeting is
on the attachment of the data management regulations to the annex of the organizational and operational regulations
decided
 
According to the Applicant's statement, for the construction of the camera system, the Condominium with [Company]
(headquarters: […], company registration number: […], hereinafter: [Company]) entered into an enterprise contract
on July 31, 2012.
 
Sent to the Authority, concluded between the Condominium and the Company on July 31, 2012
according to the business contract, the Társasház was ordered as the customer, and the Company as
contractor undertook the installation of a camera surveillance and image recording system in the Társasház.
According to the contract, the Company will carry out the work in accordance with the agreement with the Társasház, respectively
it is checked by the designated technical inspector of the Condominium.
 
It was also sent to the Authority, between the Condominium and the Company on August 26, 2012
also on the basis of the established service contract, Társasház ordered it as the customer, Cég
and as an entrepreneur he undertook -
among other things - the Társasház has a camera
operational tasks of its monitoring system. Based on this, the Company undertook the cameraman
control of the operational capability of the monitoring system and as necessary
repair
once every six months, as well as the maintenance of the devices at similar intervals
and detailed control of system operation. According to the contract, the Company is also obliged to
to hand over the entire implementation documentation of the system to the Condominium, which in itself
includes the block diagram of the system, the exact structure of the wiring on a dimensioned drawing, that is
the technical description of certain products, the available quality certificates, the system
operational description, operating instructions and necessary maintenance specifications, for warranty
relevant statement. In addition, the Company undertook to ensure that the system
prior to handing over, it provides training on the use of the system specified by the Társasház
for staff.

 

 



4

 
According to the Applicant's statement, the camera system is the Condominium and the co-owners
it was installed for the purpose of protecting its safety, and exclusively for the protection of human life, physical integrity, a
the protection of personal freedom, the prevention and proof of unlawful acts,
and serves to protect jointly owned property. The legal basis of the camera system is a
Thtv. § 25.
 
According to the Applicant's statement, there are also 6 cameras at the main entrance in the condominium
in the lobby, 6 cameras in the area in front of the elevator, 6 cameras at the rear exit, and 6
one camera operates on the outer wall and at the rear parking lot. A monitor that broadcasts the images of the cameras
located in the common representative office of the Társasház, however, although the Applicant does not
confirmed, according to his statement, he does not show a picture, because the monitor is switched off, so the cameras
no one can see the live image transmitted by In the event that the operator
they ask if the camera recordings are needed in some official procedure, a
recordings are retrieved and downloaded when the monitor is turned on.
 
According to the Applicant's statement, the camera system records the footage for 14 days
they can be retrieved during the deadline, after which they are automatically deleted by a
system. After the operator and system usage training for recordings
the chairman of the audit committee and the representative of the Respondent can access it in individual cases,
and with their help the recordings can be retrieved and downloaded.
If the chairman of the audit committee cooperates in saving the recordings, a
The requested executive opens the closed joint representative office and transfers it to the system
code required for entry to the chairman of the audit committee, who knows the system
can operate and then save the recordings. The Respondent's manager
however, you cannot log in. Based on the seizure protocol of the requesting authority
takes the recordings, or the representative of the Applicant or the caretaker hands them over.
 
According to the Respondent's statement, the camera system recordings are taken by the investigating authority
regularly arrests him in criminal cases, but he does not know how
use these recordings.
 
According to the Respondent's statement, the joint representation was dated August 17, 2012
In his letter, he informed the residents of the condominium about the construction of the camera system. In addition to the
information about the camera system was published on the bulletin board and at the entrances of the Társasház
for placement. Furthermore, the executive director of the Respondent and the chairman of the audit committee
created a unified data management policy that covers the use of the camera system
regulates. The minutes of the general meeting on camera surveillance were also sent
for all residents. Apart from this, he was not informed in any other way by the Respondent condominium
co-owners about the camera system. Only that with the requested documents
confirmed that he informed apartment building residents with a letter dated August 17, 2012,
and that the executive director of the Respondent and the chairman of the audit committee are the same
created a data management policy for the use of the camera system.
 
3. The Condominium made statements identical to those of the Applicant, stating that
according to his point of view, the Társasház qualifies as a data controller.
 
In addition, according to the Társasház's statement, it is also related to camera surveillance
The legal basis for data management is Thtv. Section 25. According to his statement, it consists of 28 operating cameras
camera system to protect human life, physical integrity, personal freedom, the violator
preventing and proving acts, as well as jointly owned property
serves for its protection. The system for operating the camera system is the common one
located in the representative office.
 

 

 



5

4. The Applicant requested it in his request to initiate the data protection authority procedure
and the private management of your data, which the Authority requested in NAIH/2019/3200/4.
approved by order with case file no.
 
 
III. Applicable legal provisions
 
Based on Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the general data protection
regulation must be applied to personal data in part or in whole in an automated manner
processing, as well as those personal data in a non-automated manner
which are part of a registration system or which
they want to make it part of a registration system.
 
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, according to the present case
the general data protection regulation shall be applied to data management.
 
CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information.
Act (hereinafter: Infotv.) according to Section 2 (2) of the general data protection
regulation shall be applied with the additions contained in the provisions indicated therein.
 
Infotv. Pursuant to § 38, paragraph (2), the Authority's task for the protection of personal data,
and the right to access data of public interest and public interest
control and promotion of the validity of personal data in the European Union
facilitating its free flow within.
 
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2a) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory
tasks and powers established for the authority under the jurisdiction of Hungary
in the general data protection regulation and this law with regard to legal entities belonging to
is exercised by the Authority as specified.
 
Infotv. According to § 38, paragraph (3), point b), according to § 38, paragraphs (2) and (2a)
within the scope of his duties, as defined in this law, in particular at the request of the data subject and
conducts a data protection official procedure ex officio.
 
Infotv. Validation of the right to the protection of personal data based on § 60, paragraph (1).
In order to do so, the Authority will initiate a data protection official procedure ex officio upon a request to this effect
may initiate a data protection official procedure.
 
In the absence of a different provision of the general data protection regulation, the data protection authority
for procedure in the Acr. provisions shall be applied with the deviations specified in Infotv.
 
Infotv. Pursuant to § 60, paragraph (2): "Initiation of the official data protection procedure
request in Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, as well as Article 22 b)
can be submitted in the case specified in
 
According to Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "Other administrative
or without prejudice to judicial remedies, all interested parties are entitled to file a complaint
with a supervisory authority - in particular your usual place of residence, place of work or
in the Member State where the alleged infringement took place - if, according to the judgment of the data subject, the
the handling of relevant personal data violates this regulation."
 
The Akr. On the basis of § 103, paragraph (1), in the ex officio proceedings, the Ákr.
its provisions on procedures in VII. shall be applied with the deviations contained in chapter
 

 

 



6

Pursuant to Article 4, point 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation: ""data controller": the a
natural or legal person, public authority, agency or any other body,
which is the purposes and means of processing personal data independently or together with others
define; if the purposes and means of data management are determined by EU or member state law
and, the data manager or the special aspects regarding the designation of the data manager
it can also be determined by EU or member state law."
 
According to Article 5 (1) a), b) and c) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "The personal
data:
a) must be handled legally and fairly, as well as in a transparent manner for the data subject
conduct ("lawfulness, due process and transparency");
b) should be collected only for specific, clear and legal purposes, and should not be processed
in a manner inconsistent with these purposes; in accordance with Article 89 (1).
is not considered incompatible with the original purpose for the purpose of archiving in the public interest,
further data management for scientific and historical research purposes or for statistical purposes
("goal-boundness");
c) they must be appropriate and relevant for the purposes of data management, and a
they must be limited to what is necessary ("data sparing");
f) must be handled in such a way that appropriate technical or organizational measures
adequate security of personal data should be ensured by using
unauthorized or illegal handling, accidental loss or destruction
including protection against damage ("integrity and confidentiality")."
 
Based on Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "Personal data
its handling is legal only if and to the extent that it is at least one of the following
is fulfilled:
a) the data subject has given his consent to the processing of his personal data for one or more specific purposes
for its treatment;
b) data management is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party
party, or the steps taken at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
necessary to do;
c) data management is necessary to fulfill the legal obligation of the data controller;
d) the data processing is for the vital interests of the data subject or another natural person
necessary for its protection;
e) data processing is in the public interest or the data controller is authorized by a public authority
necessary for the execution of a task performed in the context of its exercise;
f) data management to enforce the legitimate interests of the data controller or a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the person concerned take precedence over these interests
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms that make personal data protection
necessary, especially if a child is involved.
Point f) of the first subparagraph does not apply to the performance of their duties by public authorities
for data management during
 
Pursuant to Article 13 (1)-(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "(1) If the data subject
relevant personal data are collected from the data subject, the data controller is the personal data
provides the following information to the data subject at the time of its acquisition
all of them:
a) the identity and contact details of the data controller and, if any, the representative of the data controller;
b) contact details of the data protection officer, if any;
c) the purpose of the planned processing of personal data and the legal basis of data processing;
d) in the case of data management based on point f) of paragraph (1) of Article 6, the data controller or
legitimate interests of third parties;
e) where appropriate, recipients of personal data, or categories of recipients, if any;
f) where appropriate, the fact that the data controller is in a third country or international
wants for the organization
and the Commission

transmit personal data,

 

 



7

such

against treatment,

personal data

at the time, in order to a

the existence or absence of its conformity decision, or in Article 46, Article 47 or
in the case of data transfer referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 49 (1) a
indicating appropriate and suitable guarantees, as well as obtaining a copy of them
reference to the means or their availability.
(2) In addition to the information mentioned in paragraph (1), the data controller is the personal data
of acquisition
fair and transparent
provides data management, informs the data subject of the following additional information:
a) on the period of storage of personal data, or if this is not possible, this period
aspects of its definition;
b) the data subject's right to request from the data controller the personal data relating to him
access to data, their correction, deletion or restriction of processing, and
it can object
as well as the person concerned
about your right to data portability;
c) based on point a) of Article 6 (1) or point a) of Article 9 (2)
in the case of data processing, the right to withdraw consent at any time,
which does not affect the data processing carried out on the basis of consent before the withdrawal
legality;
d) on the right to submit a complaint to the supervisory authority;
e) that the provision of personal data is a legal or contractual obligation
is a basis or a prerequisite for concluding a contract, as well as whether the person concerned is obliged to a
provide personal data, as well as what possible consequences this may have
failure to provide data;
f) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in paragraphs (1) and (4) of Article 22, including
also profiling, and at least in these cases to the applied logic and that
comprehensible information regarding the significance of such data management and
what are the expected consequences for the person concerned."
 
According to Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "The supervisory authority
acting in its corrective capacity:
a) warns the data manager or the data processor that some planned data processing
its activities are likely to violate the provisions of this regulation;
b) condemns the data manager or the data processor if its data management activities
violated the provisions of this regulation;
c) instructs the data manager or the data processor to comply with this regulation for the data subject
your request to exercise your rights under;
d) instructs the data manager or the data processor that its data management operations - given
in a specified manner and within a specified period of time - harmonises this regulation
with its provisions;
e) instructs the data controller to inform the data subject about the data protection incident;
f) temporarily or permanently restricts data management, including data management
also its prohibition;
g) in accordance with the provisions of Articles 16, 17 and 18, orders personal data
rectification or deletion, or restriction of data processing, as well as Article 17 (2)
and in accordance with Article 19, orders the notification of those recipients,
with whom or to which the personal data was disclosed;
h) revokes the certificate or instructs the certification body to comply with Articles 42 and 43
to withdraw a duly issued certificate or instruct the certification body not to
issue the certificate if the conditions for certification are not or are no longer met;
i) imposes an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the given case
depending, in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph; and
j) orders the flow of data to a recipient in a third country or an international organization
suspension."
 
Based on Article 83 (2) and (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation: "[…]

 

 



8

(2) The administrative fines, depending on the circumstances of the given case, are subject to Article 58 (2)
must be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in points a)-h) and j) of paragraph
When deciding whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine or a
sufficiently in each case when determining the amount of the administrative fine
the following should be taken into account:
a) the nature, severity and duration of the infringement, taking into account the data management in question
nature, scope or purpose, as well as the number of persons affected by the infringement, as well as the
the extent of the damage they have suffered;
b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
c) mitigating the damage suffered by the data controller or the data processor
any action taken in order to;
d) the degree of responsibility of the data manager or data processor, taking into account the a
technical and organizational measures undertaken on the basis of Articles 25 and 32;
e) relevant violations previously committed by the data controller or data processor;
f) with the supervisory authority to remedy the violation and the possible negative effects of the violation
extent of cooperation to mitigate;
g) categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the violation, in particular,
whether the data controller or the data processor reported the violation and, if so, how
with detail;
i) if against the relevant data manager or data processor previously - in the same a
subject - one of the measures mentioned in Article 58 (2) was ordered, a
compliance with said measures;
j) whether the data manager or the data processor has complied with Article 40
to approved codes of conduct or approved certification under Article 42
for mechanisms; as well as
k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case,
for example, financial gain as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
or avoided loss.
[…]
(5) Violation of the following provisions - in accordance with paragraph (2) - at most 20
with an administrative fine of EUR 000,000 or, in the case of businesses, the previous one
shall be subject to an amount of no more than 4% of the total annual world market turnover of a financial year,
by imposing the higher of the two amounts:
a) the principles of data management - including the conditions of consent - of Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9
appropriately;
b) the rights of the data subjects in Articles 12–22. in accordance with Article;
c) personal data for a recipient in a third country or an international organization
44–49. in accordance with Article;
d) IX. obligations according to the law of the Member States adopted on the basis of chapter;
e) the instruction of the supervisory authority according to Article 58 (2), and data management
temporary or permanent restriction or suspension of data flow
failure to comply with its notice or access in violation of Article 58 (1).
failure to provide insurance."
 
Infotv. 75/A. pursuant to §: "the Authority is the General Data Protection Regulation Article 83 (2)-(6)
exercises its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality,
especially with the fact that you are in the legislation regarding the handling of personal data
The regulations defined in the mandatory legal act of the European Union are being implemented for the first time
in case of violation, to remedy the violation - with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in accordance with - takes action primarily with the warning of the data manager or data processor."
 

 

 



9

hereinafter: camera system)

Thtv. According to paragraphs (1)-(7) and (10) of § 251: "(1) Building parts that are jointly owned,
built with a closed system technical solution for monitoring rooms and areas
electronic monitoring system (a
on the establishment and
operation of the general meeting is at least two-thirds of the total ownership share
may decide with the affirmative vote of co-owners with a majority. In this case, the
organizational and operating regulations must contain for the operation of the camera system
necessary - the Act on Informational Self-Determination and Freedom of Information
- data management rules established in accordance with its provisions.
(2) The camera system based on the contract concluded by the joint representative or the management committee
is operated by personal and property protection, as well as private detective activities
may be a person specified in the Act on its Rules.
(3) The camera system established on the basis of the general meeting resolution referred to in paragraph (1) a
can be operated if the following conditions are met:
a) the camera system exclusively protects human life, physical integrity, and personal freedom,
the prevention and proof of illegal acts, as well as the common property
serves to protect property,
b) the existing circumstances make it likely that legal protection will be done by a method other than recordings
use, not available,
The application of c) is absolutely necessary to achieve the goals defined in point a).
extent and does not entail a disproportionate restriction of the right to self-determination of information.
(4) The camera system may not be aimed at separately owned apartments or non-apartments
to the entrance or other doors and windows of a service room, even if it is jointly owned
is located on a standing building, part of a building or area. The camera system cannot be placed
nor in a room that is jointly owned and used by co-owners,
in which the observation - arising from the purpose of the room - human dignity
may offend (e.g. changing room, toilet).
(5) The camera system must comply with the highest ever data security level and
requirements for automatic recording of recordings. The recordings will be released on the 15th day after recording
must be stored for a day in order to ensure that they are a crime committed at the location of the recording
or criminal, misdemeanor or other official or judicial proceedings initiated due to a violation of the rules
in the procedure - including the rights of the person concerned or the condominium community
procedures initiated for the purpose of enforcement, even civil litigation - as evidence, that
they can be used by data controllers authorized by law. Expiration of this deadline
after that, unused recordings must be deleted immediately so that they no longer exist
be recoverable.
(6) For recordings recorded by the camera system - with the exception of the provisions of paragraph (7) -
only the system operator can access them, only those arising from the contract
it is necessary for the enforcement of its obligations and the prevention of illegal acts or
in order to interrupt it, you are entitled to get to know it in unavoidable cases, and the recordings only
it can be forwarded to the court, to the violation or other authority. For forwarding only
in the cases defined by law and the legal basis for data management requiring the recording
can take place after proper verification. The recordings after the transmission has taken place
must be deleted immediately.
(7) The person whose right or legitimate interest is affected by the recording recorded by the camera system is the recording
within fifteen days from the date of its recording, you can request by proving your right or legitimate interest,
so that the data is not destroyed or deleted by its operator. Court, prosecution,
or at the request of an investigative authority, a body conducting preparatory proceedings or another authority
to the data request of the recorded
recording must be sent immediately. If
upon inquiry or data request within thirty days of the destruction
requested to be omitted, it will not take place, the recorded recording must be deleted immediately as they are
are no longer recoverable
[…]

 

1 Thtv. Based on the normative text in force between July 1, 2018 and April 25, 2019

 

 



10

(10) Into the building or part of the building equipped with a camera system and observed by the cameras
attention of persons intending to enter or stay in the area in a clearly visible place, well
the electronic one must be called in a legible manner suitable for the appropriate information
to the fact of using a monitoring system. The operator must be indicated in the information
person and contact information. The operator is obliged to - upon request - the person concerned
to inform you about all the facts related to the recording, especially its purpose
and its legal basis, the person authorized to operate it, the date of recording
and the duration of its storage, as well as who can see the recordings. THE
information must cover the data subject's rights related to data management - including (7)
also his rights as defined in paragraph - as well as his legal remedies."
 
On the rules of personal and property protection, as well as private detective activity
CXXXIII of 2005 Act (hereinafter: Szvtv.) on the basis of § 1. (3) paragraph: "Personal and
asset protection activities can be carried out personally by those with the following professional qualifications
has one of:
a) security guard,
b) bodyguard,
c) you are a trustee
d) safety organizer."
 
 
ARC. Decision
 
On March 29, 2019, the Authority initiated a data protection official procedure at the request of the Applicant
launched. The examined period is from the start date of the application of the general data protection regulation,
Data management period from May 25, 2018 to the day of initiation of the procedure
covers its activities.
 
 
IV.1. Demarcation of the data manager and data processor
 
Regarding the data protection authority procedure filed by the Applicant against the Application
request. However, the Társasház - after the Authority granted it customer status - it
stated that he considers himself a data controller in connection with camera surveillance.
In addition, according to the Respondent's statement, the Company installed the camera system. The
when examining data management, it is therefore first necessary to clarify which organ
qualifies as a data controller in connection with data management related to camera surveillance.
 
Pursuant to the General Data Protection Regulation, that party is considered a data controller in all cases,
which determines the purpose of data management, makes the relevant decision.
 
The General Data Protection Regulation generally defines the concept of a data controller,
which aims to place responsibility where real influence lies.
Who qualifies as a data controller in a specific case depends only on the circumstances of the given case
can be decided by careful consideration.
 
Regarding the role of the Partnership and the Company in data management, the position of the Authority is a
on the basis of the contracts and declarations available, that the electronic
the purpose of data management related to the monitoring system - human life, physical integrity, a
protection of personal freedom, prevention and proof of illegal acts, and
the protection of jointly owned property - defined by the Társasház, and these goals
entrusted the Company with the installation and operation of the system
to perform tasks.
 

 

 



11

The camera system therefore operates for the benefit of the Condominium, and consequently with the system
related data management is also carried out for the benefit of the Condominium, the purpose of which is to
Protection of the life, physical integrity and personal freedom of persons living in condominiums,
prevention and proof of illegal acts, and common property
asset protection. The position of the Authority is based on all this - taking into account the Condominium
the content of the contracts concluded with the Company - that the data management was determined by the Társasház
its purpose as a data controller, and for tasks related to the construction and operation of the system
entrusted the Company, which is not covered by this official data protection procedure.
 
Based on all of this, the Authority concludes that the Condominium is the general data protection
qualifies as a data controller according to Article 4, point 7 of the Regulation.
 
In connection with the Társasház's role in data management, Thtv.
written in its explanation, according to which the condominium has only relative legal capacity,
thus, he does not have legal capacity in the field of personal rights, and personal rights
neither the aggrieved party nor the infringer may be the subject of its violation. The Authority
his position in this connection is that this has relevance from a civil law point of view.
With attention to the conceptual elements of Article 4, Point 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation
from a data protection point of view, it is relevant that the apartment building as an independent legal entity is the general one
to a data controller as "any body" according to the definition of the data protection decree
may be qualified, whose - organizational - representation is the joint representative as a natural person
(chairman of the management committee), or another non-natural person - such as one in the present case
business company, the Applicant - provides. A condominium is personal to the co-owners
handles your data, for example, when operating security cameras. It is consistent with this
in this case, the Condominium's statement, as well as the fact that the installation of the camera system and
in each of the contracts concluded for the operation of the Condominium
appears as
client, not the Respondent providing joint representation [...], or that
representative, manager.
 
In general, however, it cannot be ruled out that, in certain cases, the apartment building
based on its organizational and operating regulations, the person providing joint representation of the apartment building
or body - in this case the Respondent or its manager - also become an independent data controller
become with regard to the data management purposes defined therein. In the present case, it refers to this
however, this condition does not exist. The person or body providing joint representation, respectively
it also causes its representative to become a data controller if it overextends
at the decision of the condominium.
 
Based on all of this, considering that the Applicant providing joint representation of the Condominium is
[…] not with independent decision-making rights in data management related to camera surveillance
has, does not perform any tasks related to the operation of the camera system,
The Authority rejected the Petitioner's requests against him, but at the same time a
in order to assert the right to the protection of personal data, the alleged violations of law
investigated ex officio.
 
 
IV.2. The purpose of the data management related to the condominium electronic monitoring system and
legal basis
 
1. Based on the definitions of the General Data Protection Regulation, the face of a person,
copy of personal data, taking pictures, and personal data
and any operation performed is considered data management.
 
THE
operated by a residential community as a data controller
general data protection in connection with the establishment and operation of a camera system

in condominiums, a

condominium

 

 



12

on the basis of the decree, the rules governing data management are supplemented by Thtv., respectively present
in the case of § 25 thereof in force during the examined period.
 
2. Based on this, a camera system is Article 5 (1) point b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
according to the principle of purpose-bound data management and Thtv. Based on Section 25 (3) then
can be operated if the camera system only protects human life, physical integrity, and personal property
the protection of freedom, the prevention and proof of illegal acts, and the common
serves to protect owned property, the existing circumstances make it likely that a
legal protection by other methods than the use of recordings is not available, and the system
its application extends to the extent absolutely necessary to achieve these goals and does not apply
by disproportionately restricting the right to informational self-determination.
 
The camera system may not be aimed at separately owned apartments or non-apartments
to the entrance or other doors and windows of a service room, even if it is jointly owned
is located on a standing building, part of a building or area. The camera system cannot be placed
nor in a room that is jointly owned and used by co-owners,
in which the observation - arising from the purpose of the room - human dignity
may offend.
 
An additional condition for the legality of data management is that it is based on the appropriate legal basis. The
the legal grounds for data management are contained in Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
Considering Thtv. to the rule that the total ownership share is at least
the affirmative vote of a co-owner with a two-thirds share is required for the camera system
for a valid decision required for its establishment and commissioning, the legal basis for data management
the legal basis of a legitimate interest according to Article 6 (1) point f) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may. The reason for this is that the apartment building is the data controller and all the ownership shares
the interest of a co-owner with at least two-thirds, if applicable – the vote
result
co-owners personal data
those who did not vote for the camera system.
 
In addition, personal data is transmitted to the European Data Protection Board2 using video devices
3/2019 on its management guideline no. (hereinafter: Guidelines)3 also according to a
the legal basis applicable to camera surveillance may primarily be the legal basis of legitimate interest.
 
It is important that the apartment building must carry out an interest assessment in order to refer to this legal basis. The
carrying out an interest assessment is a multi-step process, during which it is necessary to identify the
data controller, i.e. the legitimate interest of the employer, as well as the counterpoint of the weighting
interest of the data subject, affected fundamental right, and finally based on the weighting, it must be determined,
whether personal data can be processed. If as a result of the consideration of interests
it can be established that the legal interest of the condominium community as a data controller precedes the
the right to the protection of personal data of those concerned who did not vote for the camera system,
camera system that can be operated as such.
 

taking into account - precedes it

 

2 The European Data Protection Board deals with issues related to data protection and the protection of privacy,
independent European advisory body.

3 of 3/2019. guideline no. is available from the following link:
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_201903_video_devices_hu.pdf

 

 



13

Article 29 of the data protection directive4 in force prior to the general data protection regulation
Data Protection Working Group5 established on the basis of 6/2014. No. 95/46/EC of the data controller
its opinion on the concept of legitimate interests according to Article 7 of the directive6 - in which it was written that
they can also serve as an interpretation during the period of application of the General Data Protection Regulation -
provides assistance in carrying out the interest assessment.
 
It is due to the applicable legal provisions and the principle of accountability
data controller must prove that the electronic monitoring system it uses
it can be reconciled with the principle of purpose-bound data management and the consideration of interests can be matched
of his test.
 
3. Based on all these, as well as the statements and documents available to the Authority -
also taking into account the snapshots showing the angle of view of the cameras - it can be established that
the purpose of operating the camera system, human life, physical integrity, personal freedom
protection, prevention and proof of unlawful acts, as well as in common property
The protection of fixed assets complies with the principle of purpose-bound data management, therefore in this a
the Authority does not establish a violation.
 
4. However, regarding the legal basis of data management, the Authority states that a
Thtv referred by condominium. § 25 does not constitute the legal basis for data management. The Authority a
explained above that the legal basis for data management is Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation
It can be a legal basis of a legitimate interest according to point f) of paragraph (1). However, the Condominium is not for that
established its data management. Regarding the camera system installed in 2012, it can be said that
that even though other data protection rules were required during installation - and afterwards
apply, however, to recital (171) of the general data protection regulation
considering that the date of application of the general data protection regulation – 2018.
The General Data Protection Authority started processing data before May 25
decree
must be harmonized within two years from the date of its entry into force - May 25, 2016
bring this decree, related to the ongoing camera surveillance of the Társasház
should have brought its data management into line with the rules of the General Data Protection Regulation,
which he did not do, however, the legal basis for his data processing was not based on legitimate interest
legal basis. Based on all of this, the Társasház is the general data protection regulation
from the start of its application, May 25, 2018, it is managed on the basis of an inappropriate legal basis
personal data in connection with electronic surveillance. The inappropriate
with regard to the legal basis, the Partnership did not provide proof of the existence of the legal basis for data management
no consideration of interests in relation to all 28 cameras, or the existence of a legal basis
did not prove it during the official data protection procedure, therefore the Authority states that a
The condominium operates cameras without a legal basis, in violation of general data protection
Article 6 (1) of the Decree.
 
Regardless of whether the data management purposes identified by him are considered legitimate, a
the legal basis of legitimate interest requires the Társasház that in relation to all 28 cameras
operation and data management
real and
of its necessity, per camera
proving the purpose and necessity of data management,
proportionality.
 

actual consideration

 

4 on the protection of individuals and the free flow of such data in relation to the processing of personal data
European Parliament and Council Directive 95/46/EC

5 The Data Protection Working Group, prior to the start date of the application of the general data protection regulation, with data protection,
and was an independent European advisory body dealing with issues related to the protection of privacy, replaced by the European
The Data Protection Board stepped in.

6 of 6/2014. opinion no. is available from the following link:
https://ec.europa.eu/justice/article-29/documentation/opinion-recommendation/files/2014/wp217_hu.pdf

 

 



14

Regarding the number of cameras, the Authority notes that they belong to the owners of the Condominium
Notice sent on August 17, 2012, and the agreement between the Condominium and the Company
18 equipped and operational cameras were installed based on the annex to the business contract
row, at the same time the installation drawing and the snapshots showing the angle of view of the cameras 28 cameras
its operation is confirmed, so the Authority snapshots taken on October 17, 2019
based on which he considered the 28 cameras to be the guide.
 
 
IV.3. Cameras monitoring public areas
 
Based on the camera images sent to the Authority, it was established that the Condominium
Cameras installed on the side facing Csóka Street also monitor public areas.
 
Public space can only be monitored in a narrow circle, according to express legal regulations
possibility, as this activity may violate the privacy of the person observed by the camera
by processing your personal data even against your will.

owned by

technical or organizational

 
3/2019 issued by the European Data Protection Board mentioned in the previous point
Guidelines 3.1.2. in paragraph 27 of its chapter, in addition to stating that
generally own
camera designed to monitor the area
the application of the monitoring system may extend to the border of the area, he admits that in exceptional cases
a situation may arise where the scope of camera surveillance cannot be narrowed down to your own
within the property area, as in this way it would not provide sufficiently effective protection.
Appropriate
measures (for example, the purpose of monitoring
masking of an area or the observed part that is not relevant in terms of
IT
devices), the data controller is entitled to extend the
camera monitoring of the immediate surroundings of the property.
 
At the same time, in the event that the data controller does not use a public area cover
solutions, or who purposefully operates a camera system monitoring public areas,
must apply the general data protection regulation specified for data controllers
must base its data management on an appropriate legal basis, among other things.
 
However, given that the cameras of the Társasház facing Csóka Street - the cameras
according to the schematic diagram showing its location K2/1., K2/2., K2/3. and K2/12. cameras - with the above
in contrast, based on the snapshots sent to the Authority, the public area is also monitored and a
Condominiums do not use solutions that obscure public areas, the Authority states that a
A condominium operates surveillance cameras in public areas without a legal basis, thereby violating the
Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
 
IV.4. Regarding data management related to the condominium electronic monitoring system
documenting rules and access to recordings
 
1. An additional requirement related to the operation of condominium cameras - Thtv. investigated
based on the rules in force at the time of the period and at the present time - that the organizational
its operating regulations must include the necessary for the operation of the camera system
data management rules.
 
In addition, Thtv. by the camera system according to the rules in force at the time of the examined period
for recorded recordings, only the operator of the system, or with his cooperation
can access it, whose rights and legitimate interests are affected by the recording.
 

 

 



15

Thtv. according to the operator of the camera system is the personal and property protection, as well as the
CXXXIII of 2005 on the rules of private detective activity. defined by law
can be a person.
 
2. Regulations required for the operation of the camera system, also known as data protection
regulation on the main features of data management related to camera surveillance of the apartment building
governs, determines procedures and basic principles to be followed in data management
for participants in operations, such as for the following:

- the order of operation of the cameras, the retention time of the recordings, the warning

putting up signs;

- for requesting camera recordings by those concerned (right to release a copy)

related masking and IT tasks and responsibilities.

 
It is the data controller's responsibility to comply with the regulations and the data management procedures established on the basis of them
practice should be in accordance with the general data protection regulation.
 
From the principle of accountability according to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the legality of the data management is documented as follows
verification, so special attention must be paid to this. In addition to the above, the affected parties can be classified here
review of information provided to, fulfillment of data security requirements, a
purpose-related use and prior determination of retention periods, legitimate interest is the legal basis
carrying out an interest assessment essential for its application, for taking pictures
registration of accesses, the rights of data subjects in relation to data management, especially the
ensuring the right to access and issuing a copy, the data protection impact assessment
performing or reporting data protection incidents to the Authority.
 
3. Regarding the retention period of camera recordings, it can be said that Thtv. April 26, 2019
on the basis of its provisions effective from
and the characteristics of data management, and in the case of data management based on the legitimate interests of the data controller, a
the national legislature can no longer determine in general how long
the footage recorded by the camera can be stored. Instead of the specifically defined data management time
to the data controller - according to Article 6 (1) point f) of the General Data Protection Regulation
in the case of applying the legal basis of legitimate interest, on the basis of its legitimate interest - from April 26, 2019
after that, you must determine the data management purpose necessary to achieve it yourself
data processing time.
 
The data processing time required to achieve the goal may vary from case to case. The data manager
it is your job to determine for what purpose you are operating the camera and decide for that purpose
how long it is necessary to store recorded recordings. Most camera surveillance
it is done for the purpose of asset and/or property protection and for the purpose of providing evidence. In general
the damage caused can be discovered in a short time, so in most cases there are only a few recordings
its automatic deletion within a day is considered adequate.
 
The
duration
has the same provisions as above. In addition to all this, he further explains that
the longer the retention period is determined by the data controller (so, in particular, if the
retention time exceeds 72 hours), the more arguments must be made for the legality of the purpose
and to support the need for storage. The Guidelines also emphasize
that the retention period must be determined separately and clearly for each data management purpose;
the data manager is responsible for the retention period with the principle of necessity and proportionality
definition in accordance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation
proof of compliance.
 

in paragraph 121 of part a

recordings preservation

Guideline 8.

 

 



16

responsibility and

so, although indeed

essentially the data management objective

4. Compliance with data security requirements includes the issue of confidentiality, i.e
is that personal data can only be accessed by those who have the right to do so
received, and can only be considered with a suitable reason, keeping the principle of purpose-bound data management
and the recordings.
 
5. It can be established on the basis of the declarations and the documents available to the Authority
furthermore, that the Társasház decided at its general meeting on May 31, 2018 that the camera system
data management rules necessary for its operation, organizational and operational regulations
about its attachment to its annex. However, the data management rules were drawn up in 2012
and rules effective from August 17, 2012, and their organizational and operational rules
means its inclusion in regulations. Therefore, the data management rules have not been amended
in view of the general data protection regulation becoming applicable.
 
contains the
Organizational and operating regulations of the Társasház
camera system rules, those are the general data protection rules
decree
they were made before the start date of its application. For this reason, and also the general
According to recital (171) of the data protection decree, the
rules for the general data protection regulation to become applicable on May 25, 2018 and
the Thtv in effect on May 25, 2018. with regard to its rules.
 
The recording of the data management rules in the organizational and operating regulations is above
as detailed, it is related to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
enhanced care
according to
with the basic principle of accountability formulating its requirement, from which
due to the
The obligation of the condominium as a data controller is to certify that the data management
the conditions of its legality continue to exist. The data controller can only trust the fund
in that it meets the legal requirements of data management in all respects, if on this
can also fulfill its obligation to certify, and the Authority, the trial court, or the person concerned
can demonstrate the existence of these conditions in a way that provides sufficient certainty for him as well.
 
The rules for the Társasház's camera system can be found in the general data protection regulation
provided information for the period prior to its application period, however, this regulation does not
certifies that the data management was compliant after May 25, 2018 - during the examined period
would meet the requirements of legal data management.
 
Based on all of this, the Authority concludes that since the Condominium was unable to prove that
the data management related to camera surveillance in the examined period would have been adequate
data protection requirements, consequently accountability did not comply
of its fundamental requirement, thereby violating Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph.
 
Therefore, based on the above, the Condominium has, in accordance with the general data protection regulation,
must prepare regulations that are part of the organizational and operational regulations, which prove that
that the data management actually complies with the general data protection regulation - and Thtv. –
requirements, covering, among other things, the purpose and legal basis of data management, as well as the
necessary for the consideration of interests, the order of operation of the cameras, the preservation of the recordings
concerning its time, the persons who have access to the recordings and the viewing of the recordings
rules, information provided to those concerned and their review, that is
to meet data security requirements, data subject rights, especially access
and to ensure the right to issue a copy.
 
6. According to the Applicant's statement, the operator and
after training on the use of the system, the chairman of the audit committee and
The requested executive can access it in individual cases and with their cooperation
recordings can also be retrieved and downloaded. In addition, August 2012

 

 



17

for recordings

is also just such a person

may be a security guard,

to view the recordings also in accordance with the data management regulations effective from the 17th,
in addition to the operator, the joint representative and the chairman of the audit committee
entitled, the protection of human life, physical integrity, personal freedom, and the violator
prevention and proof of acts, as well as protection of jointly owned property
in order to
 
Integrity and confidentiality according to Article 5(1)(f) of the General Data Protection Regulation
following the principle of nature, personal data must be handled in a way that ensures
their appropriate level of security and confidentiality, including in order to,
to prevent the use of personal data and the processing of personal data
unauthorized access to devices or their unauthorized use.7
 
Thtv. according to the normative text in force at the time of the investigation and currently, the Respondent
the camera system based on the contract concluded by its managing director or the management committee
its operator can be a person defined in the Szvtv. The Szvtv. and defined
who can carry out personal and property protection activities must be qualified. Based on this
it can perform personal and property protection activities, such as the condominium camera system
is operated by such a person
you are a bodyguard, property guard
with a security organizer qualification
has According to the position of the Authority, it is
operation includes monitoring of live images and access to recordings,
i.e. the
can be accessed by anyone who has this
with one of the professional qualifications.
 
Given that it was not proven during the official data protection procedure that a
The managing director and auditor of the Applicant providing joint representation of the condominium
chairman of the committee would have such a qualification, the Authority - taking into account the August 2012
for access rights defined in the data management regulations effective from the 17th
- establishes that these persons were illegally granted access rights by means of a camera
for recorded recordings.
 
Based on the document attached by the Applicant, according to which five co-owners stated that,
that the manager of the Respondent and the chairman of the audit committee regularly look at the
live images transmitted by cameras, it cannot be established that they are specifically such
kind of observation
occurred, however, from the data management regulations of the Requested and
from his statements, there is a possibility of this. The applicant's statement, according to which a
the monitor transmitting the images of the cameras is turned off, so the live image transmitted by the cameras
no one can see it, it cannot be proven. According to the Authority, access is at any time
existing, obvious
possibility - which, however, is the simple on and off of the monitor
proved by its ability to be turned on - it is considered illegal data processing.
 
Considering that with this illegal data management practice, as well as its obvious
unauthorized access to the personal data recorded by the cameras was possible
and, the condominium has violated Article 5 (1) point f) of the general data protection regulation
according to the principle of integrity and confidentiality.
 
 
IV.5. Information on data management
 
1. In order for the data management to be legal, an additional condition is that the data controller
provide adequate information.
 

7 Recital (39) of the General Data Protection Regulation

 

 

 



18

It is important to distinguish between the data protection regulations and those involved (owners, residents, etc.).
for property users or other persons, even the postman or food courier entering the property).
must be compiled and available before the start of each data processing
to be released, ensuring the transparency of the data management related to them
information sheet. The relevant rules are set out in Article 13 (1)-(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
paragraph contains.
 
As part of the preliminary information, the data controller must strive to give the data subject as much as possible
get a more complete and comprehensive picture of the handling of your personal data, as the data subject
this is the only way to assess the impact of a specific data processing on
to his private sphere. Paragraphs (1)-(2) of Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation provide that
contain the minimum data management conditions that data controllers need
to inform the data subjects, but this does not mean that the controller is the data controller
provide more precise information.
 
In addition, Thtv. Paragraph (10) of Section 25, in force at the time of the examined period, stipulated that a
into a building equipped with a camera system, part of a building and the area monitored by the cameras
the attention of persons intending to enter or stay there in a clearly visible place, clearly legible, a
the electronic monitoring system must be called in a manner suitable for adequate information
to the fact of its application.
 
To the data controller, i.e. to the condominium at the time of obtaining the personal data
for the sake of fair and transparent data management, the data subject needs detailed information
to give, which includes, among other things, the name of the data controller and the operator, a
the purpose of processing personal data, the legal basis of data processing.
 
In connection with the appropriate information, an additional requirement is that the data controller is obliged
place a warning sign in accordance with the Guidelines about the fact that
that it uses an electronic monitoring system in the given area.
 
2. The Társasház, although the rules regarding the camera system are organizational and operational
by including it in the regulations and sending notification letters, as well as an alert
provided information about the installation of the camera system by placing signs, on
on the one hand, the information was also prepared in 2012, the general data protection regulation
prior to the start date of its application, and the information sheets were not amended
nor, taking into account recital (171) of the general data protection regulation, on the other hand
they cannot be considered independent, transparent data management information for the data subjects.
 
Therefore, given that the information regarding data management is examined by the apartment building
period, from the start date of the application of the General Data Protection Regulation, May 2018
In the period from the 25th to the day of initiation of the procedure, it was not provided properly, that is
in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation
information, violated the general
Article 13 (1)-(2) of the Data Protection Regulation.
 
The Társasház must prepare a data management information sheet that is general
contains all the information according to the data protection regulation in a transparent manner
so that all concerned can monitor the fate of their personal data
in connection with observation.
 
 
IV.6. Legal consequences
 
In this decision of the Authority, Article 58 (2) point b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
on the basis of ex officio determines that the Condominium does not in the period under review
appropriate
manages personal data with camera surveillance on the basis of a legal basis

 

 



19

context, violated Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation. THE
The authority also established that the Társasház operates public spaces without a legal basis
cameras, thus violating Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation. THE
The condominium also violated Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the basic principle of accountability according to Article 5 (1) point f).
principle of integrity and confidentiality. The Authority also established that the Condominium is not
provided in accordance with Article 13 (1)-(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
information on data management related to camera surveillance.
 
The Authority ex officio pursuant to Article 58 (2) point d) of the General Data Protection Regulation
instructs the Társasháza that if the cameraman wishes to continue data processing
in connection with surveillance, make it legal and base it on an appropriate legal basis, that is
after carrying out the necessary interest assessment, in compliance with the general data protection regulation
requirements of the legal basis according to Article 6 (1) point f).
 
The Authority also instructs the Társasház not to operate public area monitors
cameras, i.e. stop data processing in connection with these cameras, or
change the view angle of the cameras.
 
The Authority also instructs the Condominium to ensure adequate data management and access
handle personal data in connection with camera surveillance based on rules
and Szvtv. to its rules
you are a bodyguard, property guard
a person with a security organizer qualification can access it through the cameras
for broadcasted live images and for the recordings they record.
 
The Authority also instructs the Condominium to provide adequate, general data protection
information covering the information specified in Article 13 (1)-(2) of the Decree is
for those concerned.
 
 
A. Other questions:
 
The competence of the Authority is set by Infotv. Paragraphs (2) and (2a) of § 38 define it, and its competence is
covers the entire territory of the country.
 
This decision of the Authority is based on Art. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on paragraph (1) of § 61. THE
decision of the Akr. Based on § 82, paragraph (1), it becomes final upon its publication. The Akr. § 112,
and Section 116, Paragraphs (1) and (4), point d) and Section 114, Paragraph (1)
a decision can be appealed through an administrative lawsuit.
 

considering only security guard,

* * *

 
The rules of the administrative trial are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Based on § 12, paragraph (1), by decision of the Authority
the administrative lawsuit against falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is referred to in the Kp. Section 13, paragraph (3).
Based on subparagraph a) of point a), the Metropolitan Court is exclusively competent. The Kp. Section 27
According to point b) of paragraph (1) in a legal dispute in which the court exclusively
competent, legal representation is mandatory. The Kp. According to § 39, paragraph (6), the statement of claim
its submission does not have the effect of postponing the entry into force of the administrative act.
 
The Kp. Paragraph (1) of Section 29 and, in view of this, CXXX of 2016 on the Code of Civil Procedure.
applicable according to § 604 of the Act, electronic administration and trust services
CCXXII of 2015 on its general rules. according to § 9 (1) point b) of the Act, the
the client's legal representative is obliged to maintain electronic contact.
 

 

 



20

The time and place of submitting the statement of claim is set by Kp. It is defined by § 39, paragraph (1). THE
information on the possibility of a request to hold a hearing in Kp. Paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77
is based on.
 
The amount of the fee for the administrative lawsuit is determined by Act XCIII of 1990 on fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. From the advance payment of the fee
the Itv. Paragraph (1) of § 59 and point h) of § 62 (1) exempt the person initiating the procedure
half.

 

If the Condominium does not adequately certify the fulfillment of its prescribed obligations, the Authority
considers that the obligation has not been fulfilled within the deadline. The Akr. According to § 132, if a
The condominium did not comply with the obligation contained in the authority's final decision, that is
can be executed. The Authority's decision in Art. according to § 82, paragraph (1) with the communication
becomes permanent. The Akr. Pursuant to § 133, enforcement - if you are a law
government decree does not provide otherwise - it is ordered by the decision-making authority. The Akr. 134.
pursuant to § the execution - if it is a law, government decree or municipal authority
the local government decree does not provide otherwise - the state tax authority
undertakes. Infotv. Based on § 61, paragraph (7), contained in the Authority's decision,
to carry out a specific act, for specific behavior,
you are patient
regarding the obligation to stop, the Authority will implement the decision
undertakes.
 
Budapest, June 30, 2021.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi

c. professor

president

 

 

