1/4

 Procedure No.: PS/00208/2020

938-0419

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00208/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity, ELECTRICA DHARMA CB., with CIF.: E58142720,
owner of the website, ***URL.1, (hereinafter, "the claimed entity"), by virtue of
complaint filed by D. A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the claimant"), and having as
base the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 11/07/19, you have entered this Agency, filed a complaint
by the claimant in which he indicated, among others, the following:

“The ***URL.1 website does not comply with current Data Protection regulations,
because it does not give the proper information about cookies, it lacks any type of policy
Of privacy".

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 01/14/20 and 01/27/20, two separate
information requirements to the claimed entity.

According to a certificate from the Electronic Notifications Service and Electronic Address
Authorized, from the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Administration, the requirement
sent to the claimed entity on 01/14/20, through the Notific@ service, was re-
rejected by the entity on 01/25/20.

According to a certificate from the State Post and Telegraph Society, the request sent
to the entity claimed on 01/27/20, through the SICER service, was collected in
destination on 01/30/20, being the receiver: D. B.B.B. - ***NIF.1.

THIRD
 
These aspects about the privacy policy and the cookie policy of the website:

 : On 07/19/20 the website is consulted, checking the following

a).- The web page reported, can collect information on personal data of
users, such as name and email address, through the tab <<con-
touch>>, ***PAGE.1.

b).- Regarding the Privacy Policy: At the top of the home page of the
web, through the link, "Privacy Policy", you access the page, ***PAGE.2, the
which informs, in Catalan, only about the characteristics of cookies and how to elimi-
mine them by configuring the browser of the terminal equipment.

c).- About the Cookies Policy of the website:

c.1.) When accessing the web page, ***URL.1 (first layer), there is an information banner
information about cookies at the bottom of it, with the following legend:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

“We use our own and third-party cookies to improve our services and show you
advertising related to your preferences by analyzing your browsing habits.
veg. If you go on surfing, we will consider you accepting its use. You can change the
configuration or obtain more information in our "Cookies Policy". More info
mation”. <<Privacy Preferences>> <<ACCEPT>>

b.2.) If you access the cookie policy (second layer), through the link “Preferences”
Privacy”, the website redirects to the same page ***PAGE.2, referenced above.
subsequently.

FOURTH: On 08/12/20, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed entity, by virtue of
the established powers, for failing to comply with the provisions of art. 13 of the GDPR, with a
sanction of warning and for non-compliance with art. 22.2 of the LSSI, with a sanction
warning tion.

FIFTH: Notification of the initiation of the file on 08/24/20, as of today, no
There is evidence that no response has been given to the initiation of the file within, of the
period granted for this, for the appropriate legal purposes by the claimed entity.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and do-
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- The reported website, ***URL.1 can collect information on personal data
personal data of the users, such as the name and electronic address, through the tab-
na <<contact>>.

2º.- The page that should inform about the "Privacy Policy" of the web, ***PÁ-
GINA.2, is written in Catalan, and only informs about cookies.

3º.- About the Cookies Policy of the web, it has been verified that when accessing the page
initial page, (first layer), there is an information banner about the installation of
cookies but if you try to access the second layer through the link "preferences of
privacy”, the web redirects again to the page, ***PAGE.2,

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition:

- About the Privacy Policy:

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

- About the Cookies Policy:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. art. 43.1, paragraph
second, from the LSSI.

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD a vision of the denounced action that has been reflected
gives in the facts declared proven above related.

II

In relation to the "Privacy Policy", it is verified that, there is NO information
regarding the privacy policy and that the link ***PAGE.2, which supposedly
should redirect to it, it only provides information about cookies.

the known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the defendant, for
violation of article 13 of the RGPD.

For its part, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “the omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of
your personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD”

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

However, Article 58.2) of the RGPD provides that: "Each supervisory authority
will have all the following corrective powers indicated below: b)
sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation; (...); i) impose an administrative fine pursuant to Article 83,
in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the
circumstances of each particular case, therefore, the sanction that could
to correspond would be a warning, without prejudice to what results from the instruction
of this file.

In accordance with these criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose a sanction on the defendant
of "WARNING", for the violation of article 13 of the RGPD, regarding the
lack of privacy policy on its website.

III

In relation to the "Cookies Policy", of the claimed web page, it has been verified
that, in the first layer, the cookie banner, informs about the use of
own and third-party cookies, to improve services and display advertising
related to browsing preferences. It also indicates that, “if you continue
browsing, they consider that their use is accepted” and in the second layer it is returned to
display the same information that was provided in the "privacy policy", not
There is the possibility of rejecting all cookies.

The exposed facts suppose, on the part of the claimed entity, the commission of the
infringement of article 22.2 of the LSSI.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

This Infraction is typified as "minor" in article 38.4 g), of the aforementioned Law, which
considers as such: “Use data storage and retrieval devices
when the information has not been provided or the consent of the
recipient of the service in the terms required by article 22.2.”, and may be
sanctioned with a fine of up to €30,000, in accordance with article 39 of the aforementioned
LSSI.

Pursuant to these criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose on the defendant entity
a sanction of "WARNING", for the infraction of article 22.2 of the LSSI, res-
aspect of the cookie policy made on the website of its ownership.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

RESOLVE

NOTICE: to the entity, ELECTRICA DHARMA CB., with CIF.: E58142720, holder of
the website, ***URL.1, for the infringement of article 13 of the RGPD in what re-
respect to the privacy policy and for violation of article 22.2 of the LSSI, in what
regarding the cookie policy of the website.

REQUEST: to the entity ELECTRICAL DHARMA CB., so that, within a period of one month,
counting from the notification of this resolution, adapt the web page of its owner-
authority to include information in its privacy policy, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 13 of the RGPD, and include a mechanism that allows rejecting all cookies.

NOTIFY: this resolution to the entity ELECTRICAL DHARMA CB.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

