Opinion 13/2019 on the draft list of the competent

supervisory authority of France regarding the processing

operations exempt from the requirement of a data
protection impact assessment (Article 35(5) GDPR)

Adopted on 10 July 2019

Adopted

1

Table of contents
1
2

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS.............................................................................................................. 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................. 5
2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list ................................................... 5
2.2 Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list...................................................... 5
2.3 Analysis of the draft list............................................................................................................. 5
Reference to the guidelines................................................................................................................ 6
Processing personal data in the context of Human Resources .......................................................... 6
Breathalyser tests and tachographs................................................................................................... 6
Managing access controls and work schedules.................................................................................. 6
Recovery of debt................................................................................................................................. 6
Significance of the items on the 35(5) GDPR list ................................................................................ 7
List items considered out of scope of article 35(6) GDPR .................................................................. 7
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS......................................................................................... 7
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................. 8

3
4

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64(2)and Article 35(1), (5), (6) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to Article 51(1)(b) of Directive 2016/680 EU on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the
prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal
penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision
2008/977/JHA (hereafter “Law Enforcement Directive”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,

Having regard to Article 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, revised on 23 November
2018,

Whereas:

(1)
The  main  role  of  the  Board  is  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  Regulation
2016/679 (hereinafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In compliance with Articles
35(6) and 64(2) GDPR, the Board shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (SA) intends to
adopt a list of processing operations not subject to the requirement for a data protection impact
assessment pursuant to Article 35(5) GDPR. The aim of this opinion is therefore to create a harmonised
approach with regard to processing that is cross border or that can affect the free flow of personal
data or natural person across the European Union. Even though the GDPR doesn’t impose a single list,
it does promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinions by ensuring that
the lists do not contradict the cases where the GDPR explicitly states that a type of processing should
undergo  a  DPIA, by  recommending  SAs  to  remove  some  criteria  which,  the  Board considers  not
correlated with the absence of likelihood of high risks for data subjects, by recommending them to
limit the scope of the types of processing in order not to contradict the general rules defined in the
DPIA  guidelines  from  the  Article  29  Working  Party,  endorsed  by  the  EDPB,  and  finally  by
recommending them to use some criteria in a harmonized manner.

(2)
With reference to Article 35(5) and (6) GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities may
establish lists of the kind of processing operations which are not subject to the requirement for a data
protection  impact  assessment  (hereinafter  “DPIA”).  They  shall,  however,  apply  the  consistency
mechanism where such lists involve processing operations, which are related to the offering of goods
or services to data subjects or to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States, or may
substantially affect the free movement of personal data within the Union.

(3)
The  EDPB  ensures  pursuant  to  Article 70(1) of  the  GDPR  the  consistent  application  of
Regulation 2016/679 throughout the European Economic Area. Under Article 64(2), the consistency
mechanism may be triggered by a supervisory authority, the EDPB Chair or the Commission for any
matter of general application or producing effects in more than one Member State. The EDPB shall
issue an opinion on the matter submitted to it provided that it has not already issued an opinion on
the same matter.
Adopted

3

(4)
While the draft lists of the competent supervisory authorities are subject to the consistency
mechanism,  this  does  not  mean  that  the  lists  should  be  identical.  The  competent  supervisory
authorities have a margin of discretion with regard to the national or regional context and should take
into account their local legislation. The aim of the EDPB assessment/opinion is not to reach a single
EU list but rather to avoid significant inconsistencies that may affect the equivalent protection of the
data subjects across the EEA.

The carrying out of a DPIA is only mandatory for the controller pursuant to Article 35(1)
(5)
GDPR where processing is “likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons”.
The national SAs can issue lists concerning certain processing activities which always require a DPIA
(blacklists) per Article 35(4) as well as lists where no DPIA is necessary per Article 35(5) (whitelists).
When a processing does not fall within either of these two lists and is not mentioned Article 35(3)
GDPR, an ad hoc decision will have to be made by the data controller based on whether the “likely to
result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons” criterion is met. According to Recital
91 of the GDPR a DPIA will not be mandatory when the processing is carried out by an individual
physician,  other  health  care  professional  or  a  lawyer,  as  it  is  not  of  a  sufficient  large  scale.  This
exception covers only partially the cases when a DPIA will not be necessary, i.e. when there is no high
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.

(6)
The lists produced by the competent supervisory authorities support a common objective,
namely to identify the kind of processing operations for which the national SAs are certain that, under
no circumstances, they will result in a high risk, and processing operations the national SAs deem
unlikely to result in a high risk, and therefore do not require a DPIA. The Board refers to the Working
Party  29  Guidelines  on  DPIA  (WP248  rev.01)1,  which  sets  out  criteria  to consider  in  determining
processing operations “likely to result in a high risk”.2 As set out in these guidelines, in most cases, a
data controller can consider that a processing meeting two criteria would require a DPIA to be carried
out. However, in some cases, a data controller can consider that a processing meeting only one of
these criteria requires a DPIA.

The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with
(7)
Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the
Chair and the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision
of the Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of
the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS
The competent supervisory authority of France has submitted its draft list to the EDPB. The decision
on the completeness of the file was taken on 20 May 2019.

The period until which the opinion has to be adopted has been extended until 26 August 2019.

1 Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether
processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 April 2017
and revised on 4 October 2017
2 Recitals 75, 76, 92, 116 GDPR.
Adopted

4

2 ASSESSMENT

2.1 General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list
Any list submitted to the EDPB has been interpreted as further specifying on the one hand Article 35
GDPR, which will prevail in any case, and on the other hand recital 91. Thus, no list can be exhaustive.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the French Supervisory Authority, which were
deemed  outside  the  scope  of  Article 35(6) GDPR.  This  refers  to  items  that  neither  relate  “to  the
offering of goods or services to data subjects” in several Member States nor to the monitoring of the
behaviour of data subjects in several Member States. Additionally, they are not likely to “substantially
affect the free movement of personal data within the Union”. However, for the sake of clarity, the
Board will enumerate the items of the list, which were deemed outside the scope of Article 35(6)
GDPR. Further, any processing operations that relate to law enforcement were deemed out of scope,
as they are not in scope of the GDPR.

This opinion will not comment on any items on the list, which fall within the scope of recital 91.

The opinions on the Article 35(4) GDPR lists also aimed at defining a consistent core of processing
operations, which the Board requested all Supervisory Authorities to add to their list if not already
present in order to ensure consistency. The article 35(5) GDPR lists may not exempt these general
processing operations as a rule.

The lists established by SAs pursuant to Article 35(5) GDPR are inherently non-exhaustive. These lists
contain types of processing regarding which national SAs are certain that, under no circumstances,
they will result in a high risk to the rights and freedom of natural persons, and processing operations
the national SAs deem unlikely to result in a high risk.  Such lists cannot enumerate all cases in which
a DPIA will not be necessary. In any event, the obligation of the controller or processor to assess the
risk  of  the  processing  and to  comply  with  the  other  obligations  imposed  by  the  GDPR  remain
applicable.

When this opinion remains silent on an item from the list, it means that the Board is not asking the
French Supervisory Authority to take further action.

Finally, the Board recalls that transparency is key for data controllers and data processors. In order to
clarify the entries in the list, the Board is of the opinion that making an explicit reference in the lists to
the criteria set out in the guidelines could improve this transparency.
2.2 Application of the consistency mechanism to the draft list
The draft list submitted by the French Supervisory Authority relates to the offering of goods or services
to data subjects, relates to the monitoring of their behaviour in several Member States and/or may
substantially  affect  the  free  movement  of  personal data  within  the  Union  mainly  because  the
processing operations in the submitted draft list are not limited to data subjects in this country.
2.3 Analysis of the draft list
Taking into account that:

a. Article 35(1) GDPR requires a DPIA when the processing activity is likely to result in a high risk to

the rights and freedoms of natural persons; and

b. Article 35(3) GDPR provides a non-exhaustive list of types of processing that require a DPIA,

Adopted

5

the Board is of the opinion that:

REFERENCE TO THE GUIDELINES
The Board is of the opinion that the analysis done in the Working Party 29 Guidelines WP248 is a core
element for ensuring consistency across the Union. Thus, it recommends the different Supervisory
Authorities to add a statement to the document containing their list that clarifies that their list is based
on these guidelines and that it complements and further specifies the guidelines.
PROCESSING PERSONAL DATA IN THE CONTEXT OF HUMAN RESOURCES
The French list includes the “Processing operations, implemented under the conditions laid down by
the applicable texts, solely for human resources purposes by employers with fewer than 250 people,
except when profiling is used”. The Board notes that the processing of personal data in the context of
human  resources (HR  data) is  a  broad item that  might  involve  categories  of  personal  data,  the
processing  of  which is likely to pose  a  high  risk  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons.
However, the processing activities envisaged by the French Supervisory Authority’s list are restricted
to processing that are not conducted on a large scale and are mandatory by law. The Board therefore
deems this list item in accordance with Article 35(5) GDPR.
BREATHALYSER TESTS AND TACHOGRAPHS
The French list includes “Processing relating to breathalyser tests and tachographs implemented in the
framework of transport activities”. The Board notes that the item concerning processing relating to
breathalyzer tests and tachographs is broad and may involve processing which is likely to pose a high
risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. For this reason, the Board recommends that this
item be further restricted to cases  where processing  of  such  data  is  mandatory  by  law,  that  the
purposes of the use of breathalyzer test data is restricted to the sole purpose of preventing drivers
from  operating  vehicles  while  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  or  narcotics,  and  that  the  use  of
tachographs, is removed from the list.
MANAGING ACCESS CONTROLS AND WORK SCHEDULES
The French list includes the “Processing carried out solely for the purpose of managing access controls
and  schedules,  excluding  any  biometric  device”. The  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  processing
activities carried out in the context of managing access controls and work schedules is a broad item
that might include processing, which are likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural
persons. Hence, the Board recommends this item be further restricted to cover only processing of
data that does not reveal sensitive data or data of a highly personal nature. With respect to access
control, the Board recommends restricting the scope of the item to processing activities solely in the
context of standard and non-biometric mechanisms aimed at controlling physical access. Further, the
Board  recommends  clarifying  in  the  item  that,  with  respect  to  work  schedules,  only  processing
activities with the sole purpose of calculating working times are covered.
RECOVERY OF DEBT
The French list includes the “Processing operations carried out by the data controller for the recovery
of its outstanding debts, and for its own account”. The Board is of the opinion that the processing
activities carried out in the context of recovery of debt is a broad item that may cover processing which
is likely to pose a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. The Board recommends that
the French Supervisory Authority further restrict the scope of this item by stating that it does not apply
to the processing activities concerning debts which have been acquired from a third party, and that it
only applies to debts owed in the context of a business to consumer relationship. Furthermore, the
Board recommends that evaluation and scoring be explicitly excluded from scope of this item.
Adopted

6

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ITEMS ON THE 35(5) GDPR LIST
The Board notes that the mere fact that processing activity falls within the scope of a 35(5) GDPR list
does not mean that a controller is exempt from the obligations set out in Article 32 GDPR. Hence, an
assessment of the risks for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, their likelihood and severity,
needs  to  be  undertaken  by  the  controller  and  processor  in  order  to  ensure  a  level  of  security
appropriate  to  the  risk in  compliance  with Article  32  GDPR. The  Board encourages the French
Supervisory Authority to include in its list a paragraph making this distinction between Articles 32 and
35 of the GDPR for the sake of clarity.
LIST ITEMS CONSIDERED OUT OF SCOPE OF ARTICLE 35(6) GDPR
The Board is of the view that the following items on the list fall outside the scope of Article 35(6) GDPR1
and consequently does not issue recommendations on these items.









Processing  implemented  under  the  conditions  provided  by  the  law  relating  to  the
management of the electoral register of municipalities;
Processing carried out by the clerks of commercial courts for the purpose of carrying out their
activity;
Processing carried out by notaries for the purpose of carrying out their notarial activity and
the drafting of notarial office documents;
Processing carried out by local authorities, as well as legal persons covered by public and
private law, for the management of schools, as well as extracurricular and early childhood
services.

Therefore, the Board does not have any comments on these items.
3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS
The draft list of the French Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent application of Article 35
GDPR and recommends that the following changes be made:









Regarding the reference to the guidelines: the Board recommends the Supervisory Authority of
France to amend its document accordingly.
Regarding  breathalyser  tests  and  tachographs:  the  Board  recommends  that  this  item be
restricted to processing mandated by law, that it be restricted to the sole purpose of preventing
drivers from operating vehicles while under the influence of alcohol or narcotics and that the
processing involving the use of a tachograph be removed from the list.
Regarding managing access controls: the Board recommends this item be restricted to cover
only processing of data that does not reveal sensitive data or data of a highly personal nature.
With respect to access control, the Board recommends restricting the scope of the item to
processing activities solely in the context of standard and non-biometric mechanisms aimed at
controlling physical access. Further, the Board recommends clarifying in the item that, with
respect  to  work  schedules,  only  processing activities  with  the  sole  purpose  of  calculating
working times are covered.
Regarding recovery of debt: the Board recommends the exclusion from this item of evaluation
and scoring as well as exclusion of debts acquired from a third party , and further to restrict the
item to debts owed in the context of a business to consumer relationship.

1 This view is strictly tied to the present list and does not apply necessarily to similar items in the lists submitted
by other Supervisory Authorities.
Adopted

7



Regarding the  significance  of  items  listed:  the  Board  encourages  the French Supervisory
Authority to clarify that its list is without prejudice to any other obligation stipulated by the
GDPR.

4 FINAL REMARKS
This opinion is  addressed  to the  Commission  Nationale  de  l’Informatique  et  des  Libertés (French
Supervisory Authority) and will be made public pursuant to Article 64(5)(b) GDPR.

The French Supervisory Authority shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in
the register of decisions which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with
Article 70(1)(y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

8

