1/5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

General Secretariat  

Decision n° 07/2021 of 24 August 2021  

 

 

 

 

 
Subject: Approval decision of the Oregon Tool Inc (“formerly “Blount”) Controller 

Binding Corporate Rules by the General Secretariat of the Belgian Data Protection 

Authority (DOS-2018-01367)  

 

Having regard to Article 47(1) of the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR), the 

General Secretariat of the Belgian Data Protection Authority (“General Secretariat”) shall approve the 

Controller Binding Corporate Rules (“BCR-C”) submitted by Oregon Tool Inc (“Oregon Tool”) provided 

that they meet the requirements set out under this Article.  

 

Having regard to Article 20, §1er 8° of the « Loi du 3 décembre 2017 portant création de l'Autorité de 

protection des données ».  

 
Whereas: 

In accordance with the cooperation procedure as set out in the Working Document WP263.rev.01, the 

BCR-C  application  of  Oregon  Tool  were  reviewed  by  the  Belgian  Data  Protection  Authority,  as  the 

competent Authority for the BCRs (BCR Lead) and by two SAs acting as co-reviewers. The application 

was  also  reviewed  by  the  concerned  SAs  to  which  the  BCRs  were  communicated  as  part  of  the 

cooperation procedure.  

The review concluded that the BCR-C of Oregon Tool comply with the requirements set out by Article 
47(1)  of  the  GDPR  as  well  as  the  Working  Document  WP256.rev.01  and  in  particular  that  the 
aforementioned BCRs:  
 
a)  Are legally binding and contain a clear duty for each participating member of the Group including 

their employees to respect the BCRs by: 
- 

contractually  binding  Oregon  Tool’s  affiliates  vis-à-vis  each  other  to  comply  with  the  BCRs 
through an intra-group agreement and commitment to abide by the BCRs. See Part I.C of the 
BCRs.  
including a duty to respect the BCRs in employee’s employment contracts and internal policies. 
See Part 1.C of the BCRs. 

- 

Decision GS  01/2021 - 2/5 

b)  Expressly  confer  enforceable  third  party  beneficiary  rights  to  data  subjects  with  regard  to  the 

 

processing of their personal data as part of the BCRs: 
- 

BCRs, Part IV  

 

c)  Fulfil the requirements laid down in Article 47(2) 

 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

the structure and contact  details of the group  of  undertakings, or group of enterprises 
engaged in a joint economic activity and of each of its members:  
- 

BCRs, Appendix 1 (List of Group Members) 

the data transfers or set of transfers, including the categories of personal data, the type 
of processing and its purposes, the type of data subjects affected and the identification 
of the third country or countries in question: 
- 

BCRs, Appendix 11 (Material Scope of the Controller Policy)  
 

 legally binding nature, both internally and externally: 
- 

BCRs, Part I.C 
 

the application of the general data protection principles, in particular purpose limitation, 
data minimisation, limited storage periods, data quality, data protection by design and by 
default,  legal  basis  for  processing,  processing  of  special  categories  of  personal  data, 
measures to ensure data security, and the requirements in respect of onward transfers to 
bodies not bound by the binding corporate rules: 
- 

BCRs, Part II 
 

the rights of data subjects in regard to processing and the means to exercise those rights, 
including the right not to be subject to decisions based solely on automated processing, 
including profiling in accordance with Article 22, the right to lodge a complaint with the 
competent supervisory authority and before the competent courts of the Member States 
in accordance with Article 79, and to obtain redress and, where appropriate, compensation 
for a breach of the binding corporate rules: 
- 
- 
- 

BCRs, Part II  
BCRs, Appendix 3 (Data Protection Rights Procedure)  
BCRs, Appendix 7 (Complaint Handling Procedure) 

 

f. 

the acceptance by the controller or processor established on the territory of a Member 
State of liability for any breaches of the binding corporate rules by any member concerned 
not established in the Union; the controller or the processor shall be exempt from that 
liability, in whole or in part, only if it proves that that member is not responsible for the 
event giving rise to the damage: 
- 

BCRs, Part IV.B  

 

g.  how the information on the binding corporate rules, in particular on the provisions referred 
to in points (d), (e) and (f) of this paragraph is provided to the data subjects in addition 
to Articles 13 and 14: 
- 

BCRs, Part IV.C  

 

h.  the tasks of any data protection officer designated in accordance with Article 37 or any 
other person or entity in charge of the monitoring compliance with the binding corporate 

Decision GS  01/2021 - 3/5 

i. 

j. 

k. 

l. 

 

rules  within  the  group  of  undertakings,  or  group  of  enterprises  engaged  in  a  joint 
economic activity, as well as monitoring training and complaint-handling: 
- 

BCRs, Appendix 4 (Privacy Compliance Structure)   

 

the complaint procedures: 
- 
- 
- 

BCRs, Part I.H  
BCRs, Part III  
BCRs, Appendix 7 (Complaint Handling Procedure) 

 

the mechanisms within the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a 
joint  economic  activity  for  ensuring  the  verification  of  compliance  with  the  binding 
corporate rules. Such mechanisms shall include data protection audits and methods for 
ensuring  corrective  actions  to  protect  the  rights  of  the  data  subject.  Results  of  such 
verification should be communicated to the person or entity referred to in point (h) and 
to the board of the controlling undertaking of a group of undertakings, or of the group of 
enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity, and should be available upon request to 
the competent supervisory authority: 
- 
- 

BCRs, Part III  
BCRs, Appendix 6 (Audit Protocol)  

 

 the mechanisms for reporting and recording changes to the rules and reporting those 
changes to the supervisory authority: 
- 
- 

BCRs, Part III  
BCRs, Appendix 9 (Updating Procedure)   

the cooperation mechanism with the supervisory authority to ensure compliance by any 
member of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic 
activity,  in  particular  by  making  available  to  the  supervisory  authority  the  results  of 
verifications of the measures referred to in point (j): 
- 
- 
- 

BCRs, Part III  
BCRs, Appendix 6 (Audit Protocol)  
BCRs, Appendix 8 (Cooperation Procedure) 

 

m.  the  mechanisms  for  reporting  to  the  competent  supervisory  authority  any  legal 
requirements to which a member of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises 
engaged in a joint economic activity is subject in a third country which are likely to have 
a substantial adverse effect on the guarantees provided by the binding corporate rules: 
- 
- 

BCRs, Part III  
BCRs, Appendix 10 (Government Data Request Procedure) 

 

n.  the appropriate data protection training to personnel having permanent or regular access 

to personal data: 
BCRs, art III 
- 
BCRs, Appendix 5 (Privacy Training Program)  
- 

 

The EDPB provided its opinion 28/2021 in accordance with Article 64(1)(f). The Belgian Data Protection 

Authority took utmost account of this opinion and communicated to the Board that it will amend the 

Decision GS  01/2021 - 4/5 

draft decision accordingly.  

 
DECIDES AS FOLLOWING: 
 

1.  The  BCR-C  of  Oregon  Tool  provide  appropriate  safeguards  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  in 

accordance with Article 46(1),(2f) and Article 47 (1), (2) GDPR and hereby approves the BCR-C of 

Oregon Tool.  

2.  However, before making use of the BCR it is the responsibility of the data exporter in a Member 

State,  if  needed  with  the  help  of  the  data  importer,  to  assess  whether  the  level  of  protection 

required  by  EU  law  is  respected  in  the  third  country  of  destination,  including  onward  transfer 

situations. This assessment has to be conducted in order to determine if the guarantees provided 

by BCRs can be complied with in practice, in light of the circumstances of the possible impingement 

created  by  the  third  country  legislation  with  the  fundamental  rights  and  the  circumstances 

surrounding the transfer. If this is not the case, the data exporter in a Member State, if needed 

with the help of the data importer, should assess whether it can provide supplementary measures 

to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU. 

3.  Where the data exporter in a Member State is not able to take supplementary measures necessary 

to ensure an essentially equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU, personal data cannot 

be lawfully transferred to a third country under this BCR. Therefore the data exporter is required 

to suspend or end the transfer of personal data. In such case if a Group Company envisages to 

transfer personal data to a third country nevertheless, it must notify the competent supervisory 

authority  beforehand  to  enable  that  SA  to  ascertain  whether  the  proposed  transfer  should  be 

suspended or prohibited in order to ensure an adequate level of protection. 

4.  The  approved  BCRs  will  not  require  any  specific  authorization  from  the  concerned  supervisory 

authorities. 

5.  In accordance with Article 57.2.j GDPR, each concerned Supervisory Authority maintains the power 

to  order  the  suspension  of  data  flows  to  a  recipient  in  a  third  country  or  to  an  international 

organization whenever the appropriate safeguards envisaged by the BCR-C of Oregon Tool are 

not respected. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decision GS  01/2021 - 5/5 

 

ANNEX TO THE DRAFT DECISION  

 

The BCR-C of Oregon Tool that are hereby approved cover the following:  

a.  Scope: Only members of Oregon Tool acting as controller, that are legally bound by 

the BCRs Oregon Tool (BCRs, Part I.A) 

 

b.  EEA countries from which transfers are to be made: Austria, Belgium, Czech 

Republic, France, Germany, Netherlands, Sweden 

-  Third  countries  to  which  transfers  are  to  be  made :  BCRs,  Part  I.A  -  BCRs, 

Appendix 11 (Material Scope of the Controller Policy)  
 

-  Purposes of the transfer : BCRs, Part I.B and Appendix 11 (Material Scope of the 

Controller Policy)  

c.  Categories  of  data  subjects  concerned  by  the  transfer :  BCRs,  Part  I.B  and 

Appendix 11 (Material Scope of the Controller Policy) 

 

d.  Categories  of  personal  data  transferred :    BCRs,  Part  I.B  and  Appendix  11 

(Material Scope of the Controller Policy) 

 

 

 

 

 

