
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    01/19/2021
                                Data protection officer asks questions and answers about data protection for corona vaccinations online In the past few days, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate has asked various questions about data protection from citizens, but also from administrations or hospital operators with the corona vaccinations that started at the end of December 2020. The LfDI is now publishing a list of questions and answers (FAQs) about the vaccinations on its website. The state data protection officer Professor Dieter Kugelmann says: "In these weeks and months, hundreds of thousands of corona vaccinations are being carried out in Rhineland-Palatinate, in which data protection aspects must also be taken into account. In the interests of maximum transparency, we are answering the first important questions on this on our website. "It's about everyone knowing what data is being processed and stored for what. At the same time, the bodies involved in vaccinations should be given certainty to act. The corona pandemic has shown that everyone involved should create the greatest possible transparency and legal certainty. This is the only way the measures are successful.”
In the FAQs, the LfDI provides information on questions such as: Under what conditions may third parties make appointments for citizens interested in a corona vaccination? On what legal basis may information about the person to be vaccinated such as name and address as well as information on contraindications and previous illnesses be collected before the vaccination? What applies to data protection for vaccinations by company doctors? What is the Rhineland-Palatinate vaccination documentation? What are the requirements for video surveillance carried out at the locations of the vaccination centers?
The FAQs make it clear that data about the vaccinations carried out may only be given to the Robert Koch Institute and the Paul Ehrlich Institute in pseudonymised form. At the RKI, they are used to determine the use of vaccinations and with a view to any vaccination effects. The data must be stored in such a way that no conclusions can be drawn about individual persons.
The FAQs also serve as guidance for those involved in the vaccination process, as the privacy assessments are shared by the Ministry of Social Affairs, Labour, Health and Demography, which is responsible for the vaccination centers and mobile vaccination teams. The LfDI also contributed to the information sheet created by the ministry, which is made available to all citizens interested in a corona vaccination. This sheet fulfills the data protection information obligations.
                                return
                            



