

Responsible persons in Saxony should check their data protection declaration and, if necessary, update the stored contact data of the SDTB.



The Saxon data protection and transparency officer has redesigned its website. The website is now available at www.datenschutz.sachsen.de. In recent months it has been revised in terms of content, appearance and technology. The information offered is divided according to target groups and contains explanations on the legal basis as well as topic-specific content, for example on data protection at school, in the home office, with video conference systems and in many other areas.
The Saxon Data Protection and Transparency Officer Dr. Juliane Hundert is happy about the relaunch:
                  "Everything is new in May. My new website is aimed at citizens as well as at business and administration. In contrast to the previous website, a lot of content has been added with which I would like to inform affected persons and responsible persons more extensively about their rights and obligations. A number of complaints and infringements could be prevented if data protection were taken into account at an early stage. The following applies here: prevention is better than intervention! That's why I'll expand the offer in the coming months to include further practical information.«
The revision of the website also served to improve the display for mobile devices and to be able to present content without barriers. In addition, specially developed symbols and graphics support orientation and navigation.
New email addresses and updated privacy policy
In addition to the URL of the website, the email addresses have also changed. Instead of »@slt.sachsen.de«, it is now »@sdtb.sachsen.de«. The central e-mail mailbox is »post@sdtb.sachsen.de. Anyone who has included the previous information in a data protection declaration, for example on a website, should update the contact details of the supervisory authority. E-mails to the previous mailboxes of the Saxon Data Protection and Transparency Officers will only be forwarded to the new addresses until the end of June 2023.
Read the full press release in the Media Service of the Free State of Saxony

