
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07/08/2022
                                Activity Report on Freedom of Information
                
                        
                                                               ;
                                ©
                                LfDI RLPThe state representative for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann has handed over his fifth activity report on freedom of information to the President of the State Parliament, Hendrik Hering. The reporting period (from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2021) was characterized in particular by the corona pandemic and the flood disaster on the Ahr. For this reason, numerous freedom of information requests were made to the transparency-obligated bodies in Rhineland-Palatinate in the reporting period, particularly on these two topics. In its function of enabling access to reliable information, the State Transparency Act has contributed to the acceptance of measures to combat the pandemic. In addition, the State Transparency Act was evaluated by the German University for Administrative Sciences Speyer in the reporting period; this involved the state representative in the evaluation. Prof. Kugelmann explains: "The evaluation of the Transparency Act shows that the regulatory concepts are fundamentally viable. Existing problems mostly lie in the application of the statutory provisions by the bodies subject to transparency obligations. This shows that partly out of ignorance, rarely out of reluctance, the freedom of information is restricted too much. Especially public administration bodies that rarely have contact with the State Transparency Act sometimes find it difficult to apply it. Education about the meaning and scope of freedom of information is therefore becoming more important continue to play a role in the advisory practice of my authority. The focus of my interest as state representative for freedom of information is the goal of enforcing freedom of information as an individual right to freedom. As the increasing number of inquiries and submissions to us makes clear en, this is also being used more and more intensively. We are therefore available as a contact for interested and committed citizens."Further informationFifth activity report on freedom of informationis available (reporting period from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2021)
                                return
                            



