Opinion 3/2019 concerning the Questions and Answers on
the interplay between the Clinical Trials Regulation (CTR)
and the General Data Protection regulation (GDPR) (art.

70.1.b))

Adopted on 23 January 2019

1

Table of contents

Introduction..................................................................................................................................... 3
Legal basis for the processing of personal data in the course of a clinical trial protocol (primary

1
2
use) ......................................................................................................................................................... 4
Processing operations related to reliability and safety purposes........................................... 4
Processing operations purely related to research activities ................................................... 5
Secondary uses of clinical trial data outside the clinical trial protocol for scientific purposes ...... 8
Conclusion ....................................................................................................................................... 8

2.1
2.2

3
4

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70.1.b of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal
data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

1 INTRODUCTION

1.

2.

3.

4.

On 8 October 2018, the European Commission (DG SANTE) has submitted to the EDPB a request for
consultation under article 70 of the General Data Protection Regulation concerning a document on
“Questions and Answers on the interplay between the Clinical Trials Regulation (CTR)1 and the General
Data Protection regulation (GDPR)2” (hereafter the “Q&A).
While the GDPR ensures the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
and harmonised rules on the free movement of such data; the CTR aims at ensuring a greater level of
harmonisation of the rules for conducting clinical trials throughout the EU. Notably, it introduces an
authorisation procedure based on a single submission via a single EU portal, an assessment procedure
leading  to  a  single  decision,  rules  on  the  protection  of  individuals,  and  informed  consent  and
transparency requirements.
It  must  be  recalled  that  the  CTR  entered  into  force  on  16  June  2014,  however,  the  timing  of  its
application has been put off as it depends on the development of a fully functional EU clinical trials
portal  and  database.  After  an  independent  audit,  and  a  period  of  6-months  starting  from  a
confirmation notice published by the European Commission, the CTR shall finally become applicable.
Consequently, the entry into application of this regulation is currently estimated to occur in 2020.
In addition to this, it must be noticed that Article 93 of the CTR provides that “Member States shall
apply Directive 95/46/EC [now repealed by the GDPR] to the processing of personal data carried out
in the Member States pursuant to this Regulation” and that “Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 [repealed by
Regulation 2018/1725] shall apply to the processing of personal data carried out by the Commission
and  the  Agency  pursuant  to  this  Regulation”.  The  GDPR  as  well  makes  express  references  to  the
relevant legislation applicable to clinical trials3. It follows that both legislations apply simultaneously
and  that  the  CTR  constitutes  a  sectoral  law  containing  specific  provisions  relevant  from  a  data
protection viewpoint but no derogations to the GDPR.

1 Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials
on medicinal products for human use, and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC, OJEU L 158 27/05/2014.
2 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), OJEU L 119 04/05/2016.
3 Recital 156 and recital 161 of the GDPR.

3

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

In order to provide guidance for a consistent data protection approach to clinical trials in the EU, the
Q&A of the European Commission addresses a number of topics that - with the exception of Question
11 which explains the current situation under the Clinical Trial Directive – will become more relevant
when the CTR becomes applicable. Such topics include: the adequate legal basis, informed consent
and its withdrawal, information of data subjects, transfers and secondary uses. While the CTR is not
yet applicable, the information provided in those FAQ constitutes a good basis for a GDPR compliant
clinical trial.
The EDPB understands that there is an urgent need for clarification, in particular after the entrance
into force of GDPR, and has decided to concentrate its comments of the drafted Q&A on the issue of
the appropriate legal basis for the processing of personal data in the context of clinical trials (primary
use) and secondary use of clinical trial data for other scientific purposes.

2 LEGAL  BASIS  FOR  THE PROCESSING  OF  PERSONAL  DATA  IN  THE

COURSE OF A CLINICAL TRIAL PROTOCOL (PRIMARY USE)

In the context of this Opinion, the EDPB considers that all processing operations related to a specific
clinical trial protocol during its whole lifecycle, from the starting of the trial to deletion at the end of
the archiving period, shall be understood as primary use of clinical trial data4. However, the EDPB
considers that not all processing operations relating to such “primary use” of clinical trial data pursue
the same purposes and fall within the same legal basis.
The overall objective of the CTR is to achieve a harmonised internal market as regards clinical trials and
medicinal products for human use, taking as a starting point a high level of protection of health, while
setting high standards of quality and safety for medicinal products by ensuring that data generated in
clinical trials are reliable and robust5.
When discussing the issue of the legal basis for the processing of personal data during the whole
lifecycle of a clinical trial, the EDPB considers relevant to distinguish, two main categories of processing
activities.  In  particular,  processing  operations  purely  related  to  research  activities  must  be
distinguished from processing operations related to the purposes of protection of health, while setting
standards of quality and safety for medicinal products by generating reliable and robust data (reliability
and safety related purposes); these two main categories of processing activities fall under different
legal bases.

10.

Processing operations related to reliability and safety purposes

2.1
The  EDPB  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  processing  operations  expressly  provided  by  the  CTR  and  by
relevant national provisions, and which are related to reliability and safety purposes, can be considered
as falling within “legal obligation(s) to which the controller is subject” under Article 6(1)(c) of the GDPR.

4 It has to be noted that this broad interpretation of the primary use of data is different from the concept of
primary use in Article 29 Working Party Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation of 3 April 2013, WP203, p. 21,
which states that the very first processing operation, i.e. the collection of data, is primary use and any processing
following collection must be considered “further processing”.
5 Recital 82 CTR and Article 3(b) CTR.

4

11.

12.

13.

14.

The Working Party 296 has discussed the conditions under which this legal basis may be applicable: the
obligation must be imposed by law; the law must fulfil all relevant conditions to make the obligation
valid  and  binding;  the  law  must  comply  with  data  protection  law,  including  the  requirement  of
necessity, proportionality and purpose limitation; the legal obligation itself must be sufficiently clear
as to the processing of personal data it requires; the controller should not have an undue degree of
discretion on how to comply with the legal obligation The EDPB considers that this is notably the case
for obligations relating to the performance of safety reporting under Articles 41 to 43 of the CTR, and
obligations concerning the archiving of the clinical trial master file (25 years according to Article 58
CTR) and the medical files of subjects (which is to be determined by national law according to the same
provision).  The  same  applies  to  any  disclosure  of  clinical  trial  data  to  the  national  competent
authorities in the course of an inspection in accordance with relevant national rules (see Articles 77-
79 CTR).
Therefore, the processing of personal data in the context of safety reporting or in the context of an
inspection by national competent authority, or the retention of clinical trial data in accordance with
archiving obligations set up by the CTR or, as may be the case, relevant national laws, have to be
considered as necessary to comply with legal obligations to which the sponsor and/or the investigator
are subject to.
The corresponding appropriate condition for lawful processing of special categories of data in the
context  of  these  obligations  shall  be  Article  9(2)(i):  “processing  is necessary  for reasons  of  public
interest in the area of public health, such as [...] ensuring high standards of quality and safety of health
care and of medicinal products or medical devices, on the basis of Union or member State law, which
provides for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subject,
in particular professional secrecy”.

2.2

Processing operations purely related to research activities7

Processing operations  purely  related  to  research  activities  in the context of  a clinical  trial  cannot,
however, be derived from a legal obligation. Depending on the whole circumstances of the trial and
the  concrete  data  processing  activity,  research  related  activities  may  either  fall  under  the  data
subject’s explicit consent (Article 6(1)(a) in conjunction with Article 9(2)(a)), or a task carried out in the
public  interest  (Article  6(1)(e)),  or  the  legitimate  interests  of  the  controller  (Article  6(1)(f))  in
conjunction with Article 9(2)(i) or (j) of the GDPR.

Consent - explicit consent

15.

16.

As rightly pointed out in Q&A 4, the informed consent foreseen under the CTR must not be confused
with the notion of consent as a legal ground for the processing of personal data under the GDPR.
Provisions of Chapter V CTR on informed consent, in particular Article 28, respond primarily to core
ethical requirements of research projects involving humans deriving from the Helsinki Declaration. The
obligation to obtain the informed consent of participants in a clinical trial is primarily a measure to

6 Opinion  06/2014  on  the  notion  of  legitimate  interests  of  the  data  controller  under  Article  7  of  Directive
95/46/EC adopted on 9 April 2014, WP 217, p. 19.
7 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679 of 10 April 2018, p. 27 states that
the notion of scientific research may not be stretched beyond its common meaning and understand that
‘scientific research’ in this context means a research project set up in accordance with relevant sector-related
methodological and ethical standards, in conformity with good practice.

5

ensure the protection of the right to human dignity and the right to integrity of individuals under Article
1 and 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU; it is not conceived as an instrument for data
protection compliance.
Under the GDPR, consent must be freely given, specific, informed, unambiguous, and explicit consent
is required when the processing of special categories of data, such as health data, are involved (Article
9(2)(a) GDPR). In order to assess whether the individual’s explicit consent can be a valid legal basis for
the processing of sensitive data in the course of a clinical trial, data controllers should duly take into
account the Working Party 29 Guidelines on consent, and check if all the conditions for a valid consent
can be met in the specific circumstances of that trial8.
The EDPB considers that data controllers should pay particular attention to the condition of a “freely
given” consent. As stated in the Working Party 29 Guidelines on consent, this element implies real
choice and control for data subjects. Besides, consent should not provide a valid legal ground for the
processing of personal data in a specific case where there is a clear imbalance between the data subject
and the controller9.
Depending on the circumstances of the clinical trial, situations of imbalance of power between the
sponsor/investigator and participants may occur. The CTR expressly addresses these risks and requires
the investigator to take into account all relevant circumstances, in particular whether the potential
subject belongs to an economically or socially disadvantaged group, or is in a situation of institutional
or hierarchical dependency that could inappropriately influence her or his decision to participate10.
However, it must be kept in mind that even though conditions for an informed consent under the CTR
are  gathered,  a  clear  situation  of  imbalance  of  powers  between  the  participant  and  the
sponsor/investigator will imply that the consent is not “freely given” in the meaning of the GDPR.
As a matter of example, the EDPB considers that this will be the case when a participant is not in good
health conditions, when participants belong to an economically or socially disadvantaged group or in
any situation of institutional or hierarchical dependency. Therefore, and as explained in the Guidelines
on consent of the Working Party 29, consent will not be the appropriate legal basis in most cases, and
other legal bases than consent must be relied upon (see below alternative legal bases).
Consequently,  the  EDPB  considers  that  data  controllers  should  conduct  a  particularly  thorough
assessment of the circumstances of the clinical trial before relying on individuals’ consent as a legal
basis for the processing of personal data for the purposes of the research activities of that trial.

Withdrawal of consent

Along the conditions for consent under both texts, the EDPB considers that the withdrawal of the
informed consent, under Article 28(3) of the CTR shall not be confused with the withdrawal of consent
under  the  GDPR.  Under  the  former,  it  is  expressly  provided  that  the  withdrawal  of  the  informed
consent, which shall not affect the activities already carried out and the use of the data obtained based
on informed consent before its withdrawal is “[w]ithout prejudice to the Directive 95/46/EC” (now the
GDPR).
Under the GDPR, if consent is used as the lawful basis for processing, there must be a possibility for
individuals  to  withdraw  that  consent  at  any  time  (Article 7(3)),  and  there  is  no  exception  to  this

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

8 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679 of 10 April 2018, as endorsed by
the EDPB on 25 May 2018.
9 Idem, p.6. See also Recital 43 GDPR.
10 Recital 31 CTR.

6

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

requirement for scientific research11. As a general rule, if consent is withdrawn, all data processing
operations that were based on consent remain lawful in accordance with the GDPR (Article 7(3));
however, the controller shall stop the processing actions concerned and if there is no other lawful basis
justifying the retention for further processing, the data should be deleted by the controller (see Article
17(1)(b) and (3) GDPR).
Consequently, the withdrawal of consent, in accordance with Article 7 GDPR, to the processing of
personal data for research purposes must be applied taking into account other purposes of processing
based on other lawful grounds. In the context of clinical trials, the data subject’s consent is limited to
the processing operations purely related to research activities. This implies that in case of withdrawal
of consent by an individual, all research activities carried out with the clinical trial data relating to that
individual shall cease. However, the withdrawal of consent does not affect the processing operations
that  are  based  on  other 
legal  obligations  to  which  the
sponsor/investigator are subject such as the ones related to safety purposes (see point 1.1 above).

lawful  grounds, 

in  particular 

Task carried out in the public interest or legitimate interest of the controller

The EDPB considers that as an alternative to data subject’s consent, the lawful grounds of processing
provided under Article 6(1)(e) or 6(1)(f) are more appropriate.
The  processing  of  personal  data  by  data  controllers  could  be  considered  as  “necessary  for  the
performance  of  a  task  carried  out  in  the  public  interest”  pursuant  to  Article  6(1)(e)  GDPR.
Article 6(3) GDPR further provides that this basis shall be laid down by Union or Member State law and
that the purpose of the processing shall be laid down in that legal basis. The processing of personal
data in the context of clinical trials can thus be considered as necessary for the performance of a task
carried out in the public interest when the conduct of clinical trials directly falls within the mandate,
missions and tasks vested in a public or private body by national law12.
For all other situations where the conduct of clinical trials cannot be considered as necessary for the
performance of the public interest tasks vested in the controller by law, the EDPB will consider that
the processing of personal data could be “necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued
by the controller or by a third party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject” following Article 6(1)(f) GDPR.
For  the  processing of  special  categories  of  data,  the  legal  basis  identified  under  Article  6  shall  be
applied only if Article 9 GDPR provides for a specific derogation from the general prohibition to process
special  categories  of  data. The  EDPB  considers  that  depending  on  the  specific  circumstances  of  a
clinical trial, the appropriate Article 9 condition for all processing operations of sensitive data for purely
research purposes could either be “reasons of public interest in the area of public health [...] on the
basis of Member State law” (Article 9(2)(i)), or “scientific ... purposes in accordance with Article 89(1)
based on Union or Member State law”(Article 9(2)(j)).

11 WP29, Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679, 28 November 2017, WP259.
12 Recital 45 GDPR states that it does not require a specific law for each individual processing (i.e. for each clinical
trial). A law as a basis for several processing operations based on the performance of a task carried out in the
public interest may be sufficient. See also Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data
controller under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC adopted on 9 April 2014, WP 217, p. 21-22.

7

29.

30.

31.

32.

3 SECONDARY USES OF CLINICAL TRIAL DATA OUTSIDE THE CLINICAL

TRIAL PROTOCOL FOR SCIENTIFIC PURPOSES

The CTR addresses specifically the issue of secondary use in its Article 28(2) with a specific focus on
consent. It refers solely to situations where the sponsor may want to process the data of the clinical
trial subject “outside the scope of the protocol”, but only - and “exclusively” - for scientific purposes.
The CTR considers consent for this specific processing purpose should be sought from the data subject
or  his/her  legally  designated  representative  at  the  time  of  the  request  for  informed  consent  for
participation in the clinical trial. However, as discussed above with regard to provisions of Chapter V
CTR on informed consent, consent foreseen in article 28(2) CTR is not the same consent referred to in
the GDPR as one of the legal basis for the processing of personal data, regardless of whether it is or
not the legal ground used for the primary processing.
Therefore, as the European Commission points out in its Q&A, namely in question 7, if a sponsor or an
investigator would like to further use the personal data gathered for any other scientific purposes,
other than the ones defined by the clinical trial protocol, it would require another specific legal ground
than the one used for the primary purpose. The chosen legal basis may or may not differ from the legal
basis of the primary use.
However, the EDPB considers that this approach excludes, in all circumstances, the applicability of the
so-called presumption of compatibility provided under Article 5(1)(b) GDPR. This Article provides that
where  data  is  further  processed  for  archiving  purposes  in  the  public  interest,  scientific,  historical
research or statistical purposes, these shall a priori not be considered as incompatible with the initial
purpose, provided that it occurs in accordance with the provisions of Article 89, which foresees specific
adequate safeguards and derogations in these cases. Where that is the case, the controller could be
able, under certain conditions, to further process the data without the need for a new legal basis13.
These  conditions,  due  to  their  horizontal  and  complex  nature,  will  require  specific  attention  and
guidance from the EDPB in the future. For the time being, the presumption of compatibility, subject to
the conditions set forth in Article 89, should not be excluded, in all circumstances, for the secondary
use of clinical trial data outside the clinical trial protocol for other scientific purposes.
In any event, even when the presumption of compatibility will find to apply, the scientific research
making use of the data outside the protocol of the clinical trial must be conducted in compliance with
all other relevant applicable provisions of data protection as stated under Article 28(2) CTR. Therefore,
the controller shall not be deemed exempt from the other obligations under data protection law, for
example with regard to fairness, lawfulness (i.e. in accordance with applicable EU and national law),
necessity and proportionality, as well as data quality.

4 CONCLUSION

33.

To  conclude,  the  EDPB  recommends  modifying  the  Q&A  when  discussing  the  lawful  grounds  for
processing to distinguish the processing activities related to reliability and safety that can be directly
derived from legal obligations of the controller and which fall within the legal basis of Article 6(1)(c) in
conjunction with Article 9(1)(i) of GDPR.

13 Recital 50 GDPR.

8

34.

For all other processing activities, identified in this Opinion as processing operations purely related to
research activities, the Q&A should be modified to reflect three alternative legal bases, depending on
the whole circumstances attached to a specific clinical trial:

-

-

-

a task carried out in the public interest under Article 6(1)(e) in conjunction with Article 9(2), (i)
or (j) of the GDPR; or
the legitimate interests of the controller under Article 6(1)(f) in conjunction with Article 9(2)
(j) of the GDPR; or
under  specific  circumstances,  when  all  conditions  are  met,  data  subject’s  explicit  consent
under Article 6(1)(a) and 9(2)(a) of the GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

Andrea Jelinek

9

