02.02.2022
Conducting the Conference from 28.01.2022

To celebrate the European Data Protection Day, the National Supervisory Authority for the Processing of Personal Data organized, on January 28, 2022, the online conference entitled "The main aspects found in the activity of the National Supervisory Authority", in which they took part important representatives of some ministries, central public institutions, as well as numerous representatives of the most important professional associations and unions, private companies from various sectors of activity and mass media.
The large and diverse participation registered at this meeting highlights the existing interest and concern for the application to high standards of the principles and rules for the protection of personal data.
At the opening of the event, the President of the National Supervisory Authority, Mrs. Ancuța Opre, emphasized the significance of this celebration in the context in which the Romanian Parliament ratified, through Law no. 290/9.12.2021, Protocol amending Convention 108.
Also, the relevant aspects found in the activity of the operators during 2021 were highlighted and they were recommended, in particular, to intensify the necessary internal organizational measures, including through the periodic training of their own employees, related to the specifics of the operator's activity and their related duties.
The first address was given by Mr. Alexandru Rafila, the Minister of Health, who emphasized the importance given to the protection of personal data, especially in the context of the pandemic, and the ministry's concerns in identifying appropriate solutions during this period.
Other distinguished guests who gave speeches were represented, at a high level, by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education, the People's Advocate institution and the General Inspectorate of the Romanian Police, highlighting specific aspects of the activity of these authorities.
During the event, representatives of the university environment, of the public sector, but also of the private sector, presented topics that aroused special interest regarding the effective exercise of the right of access, data processing at the level of websites and mobile applications, considerations regarding life privacy in the digital age, international data transfers, as well as new methods used to affect personal data.
At the end of the conference, the President of the Authority thanked the guests for their involvement and expressed the willingness of our institution to collaborate with the public and private environment, in order to ensure an effective respect for the right to personal data protection.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P