 

 

 

 
 
 
 

Recommendations 02/2021 on the legal basis for the 

storage of credit card data for the sole purpose of 

facilitating further online transactions 

 

Adopted on 19 May 2021 
 

adopted 

 

1 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 70(1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the  protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter 
“GDPR”), 

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATIONS: 
 
1. 

In  the  context  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic  the  digital  economy  and  e-commerce  continuously 
developed. Analogously the risks of using credit card data online has increased. As stated by the 
Article 29 Working Party in its guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessments, credit card data 
violations “clearly involves serious impacts in the data subject’s daily life”, as financial data can be 
used for “payment fraud”1.  

2. 

3. 

Therefore, it is very important that controllers put in place the appropriate safeguards for the data 
subjects, and to ensure them the control over their personal data, in order to decrease the risk of 
unlawful processing and foster trust in the digital environment. The EDPB deems this trust vital for 
sustainable growth of the digital economy.   

For  this  purpose,  these  recommendations  aim  to  encourage  a  harmonised  application  of  data 
protection rules regarding the processing of credit card data within the European Economic Area 
(EEA), and to guarantee a homogeneous protection of data subject’s rights, in full respect of the 
fundamental data protection principles as required by the GDPR. 

4.  More  specifically,  these  recommendations  deal  with  the  storing  of  credit  card  data  by  online 
providers of goods and services, for the sole and specific purpose of facilitating further purchases 
by data subjects2. They cover the situation where a data subject buys product or pays for a service 
via a website or an application, and provides his/her credit card data, generally on a dedicated 
form, in order to conclude this unique transaction.  

5. 

As with any processing, the controller must have a valid legal basis under Art 6 GDPR to store those 
data. In this regard, it should be noted that a number of the legal bases mentioned in Article 6 
GDPR would not be applicable to this situation and have to be excluded. The storage of credit card 
data  following  a  transaction,  in  order  to  facilitate  further  purchases,  cannot  be  considered 
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation (Art. 6(1)(c) GDPR) nor to protect the vital interest 

                                                           
1  ARTICLE 29 DATA PROTECTION WORKING PARTY - Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) 
and determining whether processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679. 
2 It should be noted that they do not cover payment institutions operating in online stores, nor public authorities. 
Neither the storage of credit card data for any other purpose, for instance for compliance with a legal obligation, 
or to establish a recurring payment in cases of contract of continuing performance or subscription for a long-
term service (e.g. a contract which stipulates the supply of a certain good every month, or the subscription for a 
music or movie streaming service).    

adopted 

 

2 

 

6. 

of a natural person (Art. 6(1)(d) GDPR). The performance of a task carried out in the public interest 
or  in  the  exercise  of  official  authority  vested  in  the  controller  (Art.  6(1)(e)  GDPR)  cannot  be 
considered as an adequate legal basis either. 

In addition, the storage of the credit card data after the payment for goods or services is not, as 
such, necessary for the performance of a contract (Art. 6(1)(b) GDPR). Whereas, in the first place, 
the processing of the data related to the credit card used by the client to pay is necessary to fulfil 
the contract, thereby triggering Article 6 (1)(b) GDPR, the storage of these data is only useful in 
order to facilitate the potential next transaction and facilitate the sales. Such purpose cannot be 
considered as strictly necessary for the performance of the contract for the provision of the good 
or service that the data subject has already paid3. 

7.  When  it  comes  to  a  processing  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the  legitimate  interest  of  the 
controller or a third party4, the EDPB notes that for the controller to be able to rely on Article 6(1)(f) 
GDPR, the three conditions laid down by this article must be satisfied5. This legal basis requires, 
first, the identification and qualification of a legitimate interest pursued by the controller or by a 
third party. The interest of the controller or third party may be broader than the purpose of the 
processing and must be present and effective at the date of the data processing6.  

8. 

9. 

The  legitimate  interest  legal  basis  requires,  second,  the  need  to  process  personal  data  for  the 
purposes of the legitimate interest pursued. For what regards this last condition, provided that the 
controller has a legitimate interest as outlined above, it is not evident that the storage of the credit 
card data to facilitate future purchases is necessary to pursue that legitimate interest. Indeed, the 
actual conclusion of another purchase depends on the consumer choice and is not determined by 
the possibility to realize it “in one click”.  

Finally, the third condition requires the performance of a balancing test: the legitimate interest of 
the  controller  or  third  party  must  be  balanced  against  the  interests or  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms of the  data  subject, including data subject rights  to data protection and privacy.  The 
balancing test requires taking into consideration the particular circumstances of the processing7. 
An essential component  of the  balancing exercise  is the  potential impact on the  data subject’s 
rights and freedoms resulting from the processing8. Such impact can depend on the nature of data, 
specific method of processing and access to such data by third parties. Regarding the nature of 

                                                           
3 See as well EDPB Guidelines 2/2019 on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR in the context 
of the provision of online services to data subject, in particular on page 10. 
4 See Article 29 Working Party Opinion on the notion of legitimate interest of the data controller under Article 7 
of Directive 95/46/EC, currently under revision by the EDPB (see the EDPB Work program 2021/2022 adopted on 
the 16 March 2021). 
5 See CJEU judgement of 4 May 2017, Valsts policijas Rīgas reģiona pārvaldes Kārtības policijas pārvalde v Rīgas 
pašvaldības SIA ‘Rīgas satiksme’, Case C-13/16, ECLI:EU:C:2017:336, point 28.  
6  See  CJEU  judgement  of  11  December  2019,  TK  v  Asociaţia  de  Proprietari  bloc  M5A-ScaraA,  Case  C-708/18, 
ECLI:EU:C:2019:1064, point 44.  
7 See CJEU judgement of 24 November 2011,  Asociación Nacional de Establecimientos Financieros de Crédito 
(ASNEF) and Federación de Comercio Electrónico y Marketing Directo (FECEMD) v Administración del Estado, 
Cases C-468/10 and C-469/10, ECLI:EU:C:2011:777, points 47 and 48; CJEU judgement of 19 October 2016, Patrick 
Breyer v Bundesrepublik Deutschland, Case C-582/14, ECLI:EU:C:2016:779, point 62.  
8 See CJEU judgement of 24 November 2011 abovementioned, point 44; CJEU judgement of 11 December 2019 
abovementioned, point 56.  

adopted 

 

3 

 

data criterion, it should be noted that financial data have been qualified by the Article 29 Working 
Party as data of a highly personal nature because their violation clearly involves serious impacts in 
on the data subject’s daily life9. Hence, notwithstanding the controller’s obligation to implement 
technical  and  organisational  measures  to  ensure  appropriate  security  of  the  credit  card  data 
pursuant to Article 5(1)(f) GDPR and the fact that those data may be stored for other purposes, 
their processing to facilitate further purchases may involve an increasing risk of credit card data 
security  breaches  as  it  implies  processing  in  other  systems.  Another  important  element  of  the 
balancing test that could be taken into consideration to assess the impact of the processing on 
data subjects’ is the reasonable expectations of data subjects based on their relationship with the 
data controller, the context and the purpose of personal data collection10. Yet, it appears that at 
the time of purchase, while providing credit card data for the payment, the data subject does not 
reasonably expect his or her credit card data to be stored for longer than what is necessary to pay 
the goods or services he/she is buying. Consequently, the fundamental rights and freedoms of the 
person  concerned  by  the  data  protection  would  likely  take  precedence  over  the  controller’s 
interest in this specific context.  

10. 

Those aspects lead to conclude that consent (Art. 6(1)(a) GPDR) appears to be the sole appropriate 
legal basis for the above-described processing to be lawful. Indeed, to address the security risks, 
to allow the data subject to keep control over his/her data, and to decide actively of the use of 
his/her credit data, the specific consent of the data subject should be obtained before storing his 
or her credit card data after a purchase. This consent will enable the controller to demonstrate the 
individual’s  willingness  to  facilitate  his/her  further  purchases  through  the  specific  website  or 
application,  which  cannot  be  presumed  by  the  simple  fact  he/she  concluded  one,  or  several, 
isolated transactions.  

11. 

This consent cannot be presumed, it must be free, specific, informed and unambiguous11. It must 
be delivered by a clear affirmative action, and should be requested in a user-friendly way, such as 
through  a  checkbox,  which  should  not  be  pre-ticked12,  directly  on  the  form  used  for  the  data 
collection. This specific consent must be distinguished from the consent given for terms of service 
or of sales and not be a condition to the completion of the transaction. 

12.  According to the Article 7(3) GDPR, the data subject shall have the right to withdraw his or her 
consent for the storing of credit card data for the purposes of facilitating further purchases at any 
time.  The  withdrawal  must  be  free,  simple  and  as  easy  for  the  data  subject,  as  it  was  to  give 
consent. It must lead to the effective deletion by the controller of credit card data stored for the 
sole purpose of facilitating further transactions. 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

                                                           
9 ARTICLE 29 DATA PROTECTION WORKING PARTY - Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) 
and determining whether processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679. 
10 See recital 47 GDPR. 
11 See EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679.  
12 Ibid.  

adopted 

 

4 

