
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    05/05/2020
                                New publications of the LfDI on its role, its strategies and its action plan in 2020In times of dynamic innovations and upheavals, basic objectives, guidelines and concepts are of particular importance. They convey transparency and traceability of one's own actions. These maxims, which also played a key role in the restructuring of companies and administrations as part of the implementation of the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation, are also groundbreaking principles for the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI). In times of dynamic innovations and upheavals basic objectives, guidelines and concepts are of particular importance. They convey transparency and traceability of one's own actions. These maxims, which also played a key role in the restructuring of companies and administrations as part of the implementation of the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation, are also groundbreaking principles for the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI).
With his mission statement, the state commissioner sets the guidelines for his work, which is carried out in complete independence, and defines the role that he assumes when fulfilling his tasks in the structure between economy, state, judiciary and the persons concerned as those entitled to the fundamental right to data protection.
The changes in the General Data Protection Regulation resulted in restructuring and adjustments in business and administration. The LfDI provided and provides targeted support for those responsible and the persons concerned through numerous information events and the provision of information material. The General Data Protection Regulation has given the LfDI the task of effectively enforcing data protection law. The strategies and guidelines it follows, how it organizes the exercise of the numerous powers, some of which involve intensive intervention, and what fruits the LfDI's legal enforcement has already borne are summarized in the concept for the effective enforcement of data protection law in Rhineland-Palatinate.
The action plan contains plans for activities of the LfDI, which were compiled at the beginning of 2020 as the LfDI's objectives. The focus of the control activities, overarching topics that will occupy the LfDI in 2020 and planned events will be presented. Due to the corona pandemic, it is currently not foreseeable whether all plans can be implemented in 2020 or whether some of them will only be implemented in 2021. This applies in particular to on-site inspections and controls and the planned events.
"It was and is exciting to shape and further develop the orientation of my authority, the strategies and the footprint that we want to leave behind as a data protection supervisory authority in Germany and the European Union. We look forward to the challenge of continuing to follow words with deeds and to put ourselves at the service of data protection, privacy and freedom of information and thus make our contribution to maintaining free democracy.", summarizes the state commissioner, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelman.
More informationMission statement of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-PalatinateConcept for the effective enforcement of data protection law in Rhineland-PalatinateAction Plan 2020
                                return
                            



