 

 

Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family
Press and public relations
 
 

                                                                        
                                                                                                   
 
press release
Editor: Iris Brennberger
Topic: Youth/Family
 
 

August 14, 2020

 

 

 

 

 

 

New brochure on data protection in everyday daycare

 
Whether film recordings from the summer party, photo documentation of projects, digital offers for
Communication with parents or children's photos on the day-care center website: In the everyday life of day-care
data protection plays an important role. With the newly revised brochure “Privacy at
Image, sound and video recordings. What has to be considered in the day-care center?” they inform
Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family and the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
comprehensive about the current legal requirements. The brochure has already been distributed to around 2,700 Berlin
sent to day-care centers and can be downloaded free of charge as a PDF.
 
Sandra Scheeres, Senator for Education, Youth and Family: “Digitization is capturing more and more
Areas of life, including early childhood education in day care centers and day care centers. Many facilities
ments also use digital offers to communicate with parents and present themselves in the
Network. The corona pandemic has accelerated this development. In the case of data protection issues
but often uncertain. With the brochure we would like to support the daycare professionals in their daily work
support. It takes up questions from day-to-day day-care center practice and creates legal certainty.”
 
Maja Smoltczyk, Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information: "Children are subject to
the special protection of the General Data Protection Regulation. Often there is in everyday pedagogical work
but uncertainty, such as the protection of their personal rights in view of increasing digitization
can be guaranteed in practice. With our practical brochure we would like to
provide technical specialists with assistance, on the one hand to ensure that they comply with data protection
handling the particularly sensitive data of our youngest and on the other hand with the personal
related data of the employees in the facilities."
 
The 44-page brochure deals with the following topics in connection with image,
Sound and video recordings in day-care centers: classification under data protection law (legal bases and principles
ze), data protection when recording children (declaration of consent, recordings at events
and in everyday pedagogical work, scientific projects, publication by external parties), data protection
of employees (requirement for the employment relationship, dependency
relation to the employer) and media competence in everyday pedagogical work.
The brochure and additional information can be downloaded from the following links:
https://www.berlin.de/sen/jugend/familie-und-
children/daycare/quality/data-protection_in_kitas_2020.pdf
 
https://www.datenschutz-
berlin.de/fileadmin/user_upload/pdf/publikationen/informationsmaterial/2020-BlnBDI-
Data Protection_Image_Sound_Video.pdf

Bernhard-Weiss-Strasse 6
10178 Berlin-Mitte
www.berlin.de/sen/bjf
 

030 90227 5844

Hairdryer
Fax +49 (30) 90227 5020
Email pressestelle@senbjf.berlin.de

