Data protection for image, sound

 

and video recordings
  

 

What has to be considered in the day-care center?


  
 
 

Data protection for image, sound

and video recordings

 

What's in the daycare center

 
to consider?

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Editors:
 
Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family
Bernhard-Weiss-Strasse 6,
10178 Berlin
 
and
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
Friedrichstrasse 219,
Visitor entrance: Puttkamerstraße 16-18,
10969 Berlin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2nd edition 2020
 
text: dr Claudia Federrath, Annette Hautumm-Grunberg
Design: Maria-Helene Tornau, Jens Klennert
Illustrations: bag
 
Printing and binding: Arnold printers
Printed in Germany


 

Contents

foreword

 
1.

 
2.
2.1.
2.2
 
3.

4.1
4.2
4.3

 
5.
 
6.

Image, sound and video recordings in
day care centers

Classification under data protection law
Legal basis
 
Privacy Policy

 

 

 
 

Data protection for image, sound and video recordings
from children
 
Content of a declaration of consent
Practical case scenarios

3.1
3.2
3.2.1 Recordings in everyday pedagogical work and

 
 

at events

3.2.2 Photographs on the premises of the institution
3.2.3 Use of Personal Recording Devices
3.2.4 Professional photographers
3.2.5 Scientific projects, studies, qualifications
3.2.6 External Publication
 
4.

Data protection for image, sound and video recordings
 
of employees
Requirement for the employment relationship
dependency on the employer
 
Requirements for image, sound and video recordings
of employees

Media competence as a pedagogical task

Advice on all questions relating to data protection

5
 
9

13
14
16
 
21
 
24
27
27
 
28
29
29
30
30
 
33
 
35
36
37
 
 
39
 
43

foreword

xxx 5

6

 

Dear reader,
 
 
Digitization is affecting more and more areas of our society
social life, including early childhood education in our
 
day-care centers and child day-care centers (KTP).
Berlin is therefore investing specifically in this area, for example
in digital educational offers for daycare centers, in further training and basic
 
location research. Many day care centers/KTP places are already using digital ones
Offers for communication with parents and, reinforced by the
 
Corona-related closures, also with those who stayed at home
children.
 
It is important to us that data protection is consistent with such developments
keeps up and keeps them safe and informationally self-
steers the right paths. The European General Data Protection Regulation
regulation (GDPR) is the essential and also for all public
regulations applicable to all institutions. We'll come to that later
before special legal regulations, such as those for children

7

of the day-care facilities/day-care centers
writings on social data protection. The level of data protection in German
country was also very high before the GDPR came into force and even in
in many ways a model for European regulations. For this reason
we would like to reassure you in advance: through the European
DS-GVO have not made any fundamental changes for the
Dealing with data protection issues in this
rich.
 
It remains a challenging task, however, with the
sensitive data of children as well as with the personal
 
Handle employee data correctly. This is shown by many
questions and the undiminished high demand for our
common brochure »Data protection for image, sound and video recordings
- What has to be considered in the day-care center?".
We have now updated this brochure to reflect the new features
adapted to the GDPR. With this we offer all day-care center administrators and
pedagogical specialists a practical assistance, which
Legal certainty when dealing with data protection issues in your professional
everyday life. We wish you informative reading.
 
With kind regards

       

Sandra Scheeres
Senator for
education, youth and family

        Maja Smoltczyk
        Berlin representative
        for data protection
        and freedom of information

Principles (p. 16)

• Necessity
• Earmarking
• Transparency
 
• direct survey

8th

Legal basis (p. 14)

• Basic Law (GG)
• Social Code (SGB VIII)
• Framework agreement – RV TAG
 
• Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG)
 
• Art Copyright Act (ArtUrhG)
• Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Euro

 

 
European Union (GRC)

• General Data Protection Regulation

(GDPR)

• Berlin Data Protection Act

 
(BlnDSG)

Data protection for image,

sound and video recordings

from children

from employees

• Requirement for

Employment Type
(p. 35)

• Dependency on

Employer (p. 36)

• Declaration of consent (p. 24)
• everyday pedagogical work and

events (p. 27)

• in the premises (p. 28)
• private recording devices (p. 29)
• professional photographers

(p. 29)

• scientific projects (p. 30)
• Publications (p. 30)

Media competence as a pedagogical task (p. 39)

xxx 9

1. Image, sound and

video recordings in
day care centers

   

10

Image, sound and video recordings of children and occasionally also
through children in many situations in everyday educational life
prepared. such as B. of game scenes in the garden and in the house, for the
Evaluation of a child's language skills, together
related to acclimatization or to accompany and document
tation of projects. Images and authentic sound recordings
support the pedagogical work according to the »Berliner Bildungs-
program for day-care centers and day-care centers«1. If with
Children are told about projects and the corresponding ones
Documentaries are reviewed, they recognize how ye
collaborative and individual learning path. This strengthens their
learning method competences, their feeling of self-efficacy
and the social skills. A sound and video recording
supports the explanations of the language level of the child in
Development discussion with mother or father. pictures of the
familiarization makes the transition easier for parents because they can recognize
 
whether your child is comfortable in the new environment without you. collegiate
Consultations, supervision and case discussions can be included
Support image material from everyday pedagogical life. The photos
or the digital picture frame in the entrance area give parents
everyday insights into day-care center life.
 
But what is to be considered when image, sound and video recordings
be used in everyday day care? About, under what legal
 
Prerequisites corresponding recordings are made
may and who has what rights to these in everyday pedagogical work
owns, this brochure is intended to clarify. She straightens

1

Berlin education program for day-care centers and child day care, Senate administration
for education, youth and science (ed.), Berlin 2014

11

especially to providers, the daycare management, the pedagogical specialists
and beyond that to multipliers, such as
e.g. B. trainers. In addition to educating about
the data protection basis is about the right
Dealing with image, sound and video recordings of both supervised
children as well as employees.
The brochure is intended to support you in dealing with it in a considered manner
to be sensitive to your own and the personal data of others
and to make it clear how important it is to
to respect and protect children's rights when dealing with media
to point this out.
 
The statements on the data protection requirements in the
In principle, child day-care facilities can also be
transferred to day care centers.

2. Privacy Law

classification

xxx 13

14

Legal basis

Every person has the right to protection of the personal
related data. In principle, you may
determine the disclosure and use of their personal data. It
This is the fundamental right to informational self-
provision that is both European law and constitutional
is legally guaranteed.2 It applies not only to adults, but
in the same way for children.
 
 
2.1.
 
Interventions in this fundamental right to informational self-determination
 
require a legal basis based on data protection law
can be removed. Since May 25, 2018, all European
European member states, the European General Data Protection
regulation (DS-GVO) for the data processing of public and
 
private bodies. Most of the specifications are now immediate
 
from the DS-GVO and are also for the day care centers
essential.
 
If personal data3 of the children and their families is
child day-care facilities collected, used, transmitted and
stored (i.e. recorded in sheets or on index cards, in portfolios
incorporated, noted in the language learning diary, as photos or videos
recorded, posted in the entrance area, on the website

2

3

Art. 8 Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (EU Charter of Fundamental Rights);
Art. 2 para. 1 i. In conjunction with Article 1 Paragraph 1 of the Basic Law (GG)
Personal data is any information relating to an identified
or identifiable person, d. H. allow conclusions to be drawn about the person
such as B. name, address, age as well as image and sound recordings.

15

published or sent by e-mail), the admissibility is assessed
of data processing in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR. basic
 
It can be said that data processing is always permissible
is if there is either a legal basis for this or an
consent is given. The legal bases are in addition to the DS-GVO
for the child day-care facilities, the regulations of the
cial Code VIII - Child and Youth Welfare - (SGB VIII) to apply
the. As youth welfare institutions, the day-care centers are obliged to
Protection of personal data in accordance with the regulations
of SGB VIII to ensure.4 Since it is the processed
data is social data that is subject to social secrecy,
special protection applies. With such personal data
dealing correctly in the context of a day-care center is part of professional
dings of sponsors, management and pedagogical specialists.
  
The right to information applies to those employed in a day-care center
Self-determination in the same way as for children in care and theirs
 
Familys. However, apply to the processing of employee data
in addition to the GDPR, not the regulations of SGB VIII, but the
specially created regulations on the so-called employee data
protection. This is the first priority for employees of public institutions
line in the Berlin Data Protection Act (BlnDSG) and for employees
 
private provider regulated in the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG).
 
Every day-care center should work as a team to discuss data protection in its facility
communicate fundamentally and regularly, comprehensively

4

§ 61 paragraph 3 SGB VIII and § 3 paragraph 2 of the framework agreement on the financial
and ensuring the performance of the day-care facilities for Berlin (framework
agreement – RV day)

 

16

Privacy Policy

inform and fix all the essentials in writing. On
in this way, everyone involved - especially new employees -
 
employees – greater security of action can be achieved.
It is recommended to add it as an attachment to the day-care center concept
and also to present to parents for information.
 
 
2.2
 
Processing of personal data, to which e.g. B. the
use, recording, organization, ordering, storage,
the use, deletion or destruction of data
heard, is always permissible if there is a legal basis for this
situation exists or if the persons concerned, i. H. the children or their
parents who have given their consent. during processing
personal data about children and their families often
through the caregiving contract or legal regulations
(e.g. Social Code Book VIII or the child day-care
law) is regulated, it requires the production of image,
 
Sound and video recordings of children and later handling
with these (distribution, publication, etc.) of an effective
 
parental consent.
 
Against the background of the legal bases described above
it is important to observe a few principles. These apply to both
electronic data processing, e.g. B. by means of image, sound and
video recordings, as well as for classic forms of data processing
processing, e.g. B. Data collection in everyday pedagogical work or with help
of questionnaires.
 

17

principle of necessity
Only such personal data may be collected
to fulfill the purpose pursued with the data processing
are immediately necessary. In the day-care center, dates are usually
for the purpose of bringing up, educating and caring for the child in
of the day-care center and for the necessary administration
processing operations. The data processing takes place on
Purpose of fulfilling the legal obligations assigned to the facilities
 
technical tasks according to SGB VIII.5
 
First of all, the basic information is required without which
it would not be possible to take care of the child. These include e.g.
B. name, date of birth, address of the child and his parents as well as
Telephone numbers where they can be reached in an emergency, and
the names of other persons authorized to pick up. Also the knowledge of any
health restrictions (diseases, allergies, intake
medication etc.) are required. Furthermore support
and complement day-care centers as socio-pedagogical educational institutions
Bringing up the child in the family through an age- and
appropriate funding.6 Here, the funding in the daily
direction the individual needs and the respective living environment
 
of the child and his family.7 Knowledge of this
are therefore required to fulfill this purpose.
 
The decisive factor is which data on the care of the child by
the day-care center is required, d. H. necessary and not

5

6

7

§ 62 paragraph 1 SGB VIII
§ 1 para. 1 sentence 1 Child Day Support Act (KitaFöG)
§ 1 paragraph 2 sentence 1 KitaFöG

18

are only useful. It is therefore not permissible to transfer data to
Stock up and save because they are at any time
could be useful. That's how it is in education, for example
important in everyday life to already have a concrete idea for a project,
which is also to be implemented in the near future. Then can
in the day-care center to start giving information to families
collect what is necessary for the implementation of the project.
 
purpose limitation principle
Personal data may only be used for the purpose
 
for which they were raised. Therefore, the purpose of the collection
always be determined in advance. When the purpose is fulfilled
the data is usually to be deleted.8 It is not allowed to delete data
of children, such as place of residence, number of siblings or
development documentation, to third parties (e.g. employees
employees of a research project) without
the parents have given their consent. done accordingly
a transfer of the learning documentation from the language learning day
book from the day-care center to the elementary school that the child will
will search, only after written documented consent
clarification of parents.
 
principle of transparency
A prerequisite for effective protection of the right to information
mational self-determination is the guarantee of maximum
possible transparency about the processing of personal data
Data. The citizens – including children, parents and
Employees – have the right to know who is doing what at which

 

8th

Unless there are specific legal retention periods to the contrary.

19

opportunity knows about them. The data processing must be
be comprehensible to the persons concerned. That's the only way they can
data processing affected their rights, e.g. B. for information
or exercise deletion effectively. The GDPR regulates in this respect
legal information obligations towards those responsible
the citizens. The principle of transparency
hereby suffices that all information and notifications for processing
Processing of personal data easily accessible, understandable
and are written in clear and plain language. For the children
day-care centers, this means that the parents are on admission
of the child in the day-care center about the purposes of the data processing
Legal bases, the duration of storage, your rights as
etc. must be informed.9 It is advisable to
to develop documents and these upon completion of the
hand over the trust agreement.
 
principle of direct collection
The social data protection policy applicable to the day care centers
law provides that personal data about an individual
with the latter themselves or – if it is a question of a child – with the parents
to inquire and are not available to third parties without their knowledge.
  
 

9

The requirements for the information obligations can be found in Art. 13, 14 DS-GVO
take.

21

3. Data protection for image,

sound and video recordings
from children

22

The further development of modern communication technology has
in the day-care center opens up many possibilities, but in the pedagogical
 
Gogic everyday life raises a number of questions, which are mainly dealing with
with the data of children concern:
• What about development documentation, the photos or

audio recordings included?

• May e-mail footage from recent project or below

use of social networks to be sent to the parents?

• The last project documentation would be very good for the
website of the day-care center. Under what conditions can
they be hired?

 
• A photo is taken quickly: Permitted for the recording at all

private devices are used? What is to be considered?

 
The focus is on questions from the day-to-day life of a day-care center. many property
are nevertheless related to the work context
care transferable.
 
As previously described, image, sound and video
Recordings about personal data or social data, about
which the children who are pictured, or their parents in mind
their right to informational self-determination independently
allowed to decide. Dealing with image, sound and video recordings
men require clear specifications in the consent to be obtained
clarifications. Particular threats to the right to informational
Self-determination exists in particular with digital data, since
duplicated, modified, stored and published without
can become public. Special care is therefore required here
offered in order to exploit the benefits for pedagogy on the one hand,
 
but at the same time not in the personal rights of the children and
of employees to intervene.

23

For image, sound and video recordings of children of kindergarten age
the legal guardians are authorized to make decisions. Since parents in
As part of the admission and acclimatization of their child very many
receive information and advice at the same time, it is advisable
that the pedagogical professionals understand the subject of preparation and
in particular publication of image, sound and video recordings
 
promptly, e.g. B. at a parents’ or information evening for the “new
Parents«, with practical examples and room for questions
permit. Even if this procedure takes time – a
Arguing with an angry parent can go a long way
cost more time and energy. Diligence and transparency in questions
of data protection are required and pay off in the long term.
 
If the parents understand little or no German, one can
Support language mediation, ensuring that they
understand what they are signing. Parents must also
be informed about that you have given your consent for the future
revoked without having to fear disadvantages.
 
For parents it is a significant step to sign a contract on the
complete child care. Under no circumstances should they
the impression is given that a place in the day-care center
depends on whether they agree to image and sound recordings of their child.
To make the declaration of consent clearer,
Photos, video and sound recordings of the child distinguished and with
checkboxes are worked on.
  
Furthermore, it is advantageous to name a person in the daycare team
s necessary for the processing, i. H. in particular storage and
Deletion of the collected personal data, is responsible.
 
Management and teams of a facility should agree on
how the digital files are shared by children and, if applicable, employees

24

Content of a declaration of consent

be saved. They should also specify on which data
data carriers are stored and secured, e.g. B. in one
local, well-secured folder on the setup computer or
on an external hard drive that is reserved for a specific person (e.g.
the day-care center management or the day-care center’s specially appointed media officer)
is accessible. This ensures that data at a
designated place and kept by a person and
if necessary, a designated deputy on a regular basis
can be maintained, deleted and managed properly.
 
 
3.1
 
If possible, the parents will be informed when the child is admitted to
the institution submitted a prepared declaration of consent
and explained. Since the facilities are already under their post
of the DS-GVO are obliged to provide information
to parents and others to make transparent which personal
collected data for which purposes are to be processed,
is it necessary to already refer to the intended image, sound and
and make video recordings. After the parents
 
data processing for which you should give your consent
been made, you will be asked to sign it. If that
did not take place when the child entered the day-care center, this is
It is essential to obtain your consent before image or sound recordings
be made. For special projects or projects,
not listed and explained in the submitted consent
 
are, further consent must be obtained from the parents.
 
This is e.g. B. in project weeks or research projects where
 
other facilities or institutions are involved, the case. In the
Connection with such cooperation must be guaranteed

25

be that data cannot be used by third parties without further
more project-related parental consent.
 
In order to ensure that the declarations of consent
requirements and framework conditions of the respective day-care center,
 
At this point, we refrain from submitting blank forms.
It is important that each Kita management has its individually adapted
Template created, which is further developed depending on the project and
can be updated. In case of uncertainties in the wording
there is always the possibility to contact the Berlin representative
to get advice on data protection and freedom of information and
obtain assistance.
 
The legal requirements for effective consent
are set, arise directly from the DS-GVO.10 Decisive
 
is that consent is informed and voluntary. To the parents
must be made transparent for which
written purposes the recordings are to be made. Also
it is necessary to determine what is to be done with the recordings
and how long they are kept. The parents have the right
your consent once given at any time with effect for the future
to revoke. This must be expressly pointed out.
 
The following points must be included in a declaration of consent:
 
Purpose of the recordings
The declaration of consent makes it transparent in which
Frame (when observing children, for documenting

10

Art. 7 GDPR

26

projects, on daycare trips or excursions, through professional photo
photographers etc.) and for what purpose (usually observation
attention and documentation, reminders of the day-care center) the set-up
tion intends to take photos or video and sound recordings of the children
to make. These purposes are stated in the declaration of consent
described as specifically as possible. If necessary, it is advisable
between photo, video and sound recordings in the consent as well
to differentiate.
 
Use or further use of the recordings
The declaration of consent explains how the
Recordings used or (further) used and to whom they are shown
or be presented. The more specific the group of people
can be named, the better. Parents can too
Provide information as to whether you agree to mentioning the name and/or the
age of their children under pictures agree or not.
 
Duration of storage and time of deletion
The declaration of consent describes how long the
records are kept and when they are deleted or destroyed.
Recordings that z. B. no longer after a development meeting
are needed are taken from the hard drives or mobile data
deleted or destroyed. The same applies if a child
leaves the facility.
 
Voluntariness and possibility of revocation
Parents should also be advised that consent
agreement is voluntary and you will not incur any disadvantages if you
do not give the consent or wish to revoke it. in particular
In particular, the acceptance of a child in the day-care center must not depend on
be made dependent on the consent. have parents

27

once their consent has been given, this does not necessarily apply to the
entire time in daycare. You always have the opportunity to
cancellation with effect for the future. Concrete means
this that e.g. B. in the case of printed matter, a revocation is no longer possible
is when the print job has already been issued.
 
 
3.2
 
3.2.1

Practical case scenarios

Recordings in everyday pedagogical work and
 
at events

 
The pedagogical staff ensures that only
those children are photographed for whom - as described above -
there is consent for the respective, specific purpose. Sol-
len z. B. Photos of individual children in their language learning diary
are glued in, it should be noted that in the case of images with several
Children have the consent of their parents for this as well.
 
Are there events such as e.g. summer or graduation parties,
by a larger group of people (e.g. other relatives,
 
friends of family) are visited, it is helpful to have information
ready and clear guidelines for dealing with videos
or to take photos. Are photos taken for private use
Parents, friends or relatives made, is the responsibility
at the person taking the photograph. Recordings of children who are not
belong to the family – even if they are shared with your own
child were depicted - may not be used without the consent of the
the parents e.g. B. not set to the Internet or via social
networks are disseminated. To avoid possible legal consequences
should be avoided, both day-care centers and private

28

Photos in the premises of the institution

persons ensure that only the children are admitted
for which consent has been given. Since it is now
is quite common, photos or videos z. B. in social networks
 
to publish works would be an information sheet/flyer on this topic
helpful. Here could be described in short sentences what
is and is not permitted during an event. With it
 
would the day-care centers ensure safety and raise awareness among families,
take care of the children and the guests.
 
 
3.2.2
 
The posting or presentation of photos (e.g. also via so-called
digital picture frames or advertising of the carrier for his work)
 
on the premises of the institution is a very good opportunity
to let the families participate in the life in the day-care center. you complement
the children's stories about what they do during the day
experienced. Even those parents who deal with the pedagogical
technical specialists do not understand well for linguistic reasons
are able to gain a lively insight into everyday life
their children. The posting or presentation requires that
the parents agree. It should be noted that
 
the posted photos not by strangers (e.g. at the facility
 
passers-by) can be seen. parents must
 
also be asked for their consent when attending parents' evenings
or shown photos or videos of the children as part of parties
become. This should also form part of the declaration of consent
(see point 3.1).

29

3.2.3 Use of Personal Recording Devices
 
Almost everyone owns a smartphone these days. A photo or video with it
is made quickly and can be sent via SMS/MMS, via trade fair
ger services such as WhatsApp, Snapchat or social networks such as
Facebook to be shared with others. Private recording devices such as
Mobile phones, photo or video cameras may be used for documentation
however, cannot be used in practice. Because a facility
is neither able to implement the strict measures in force
access the secure use of official data on private
devices, nor the control obligations incumbent on them
exercise effectively. Accordingly, the use of
father devices is prohibited and only the use of the facility's own
technology approved.
 
 
3.2.4
 
Photographers visit regularly – usually once a year
Photographers set up and finish individual portraits as well
Group photos of the children. These are then given to the parents
offered for sale. The photographers are
gene responsible and should comply with their privacy policy
Keep explanations ready, as with the digital
Recordings of the children will be done after the purchase, or also
in the event that the parents do not purchase the recordings. Task
In this case, it is up to the pedagogical staff to ensure
that individual portraits are only made of those children
 
for which parental permission has been granted in advance and which
want this yourself. Only the children are allowed to take group photos
 
be displayed for which the parents have consented. It is advisable,

Professional photographers

30

 

Find out beforehand how the photos will be stored
 
carried out by the photographers and to agree
when the images will be deleted. A deletion should at the latest
at the end of the day-care year.
 
 
3.2.5 Scientific projects, studies, qualifications
 
Takes a day care center on a scientific project or a
special qualification part, these are often at the time of
Acceptance of the child in the day-care center and thus the signing
the declaration of consent is not yet foreseeable. parents must
therefore be informed before any recordings are made
become. The already existing declaration of consent should be
be supplemented for this particular purpose. It usually will
be useful, for reasons of transparency, a separate consent
to develop a declaration of agreement for the research project. Both
Responsible for the project is u. to find out in which
 
context the recordings are shown until when they are saved
whether personal information (name, age, etc.) is required
and who is the contact person for questions from parents. parents should
 
also get the opportunity to take the shots before further
view usage. Even if permission to use
of the recordings had already been granted, this is evidence of responsible
articulate handling, participation and transparency.
 
 
3.2.6
 
When recordings are published by others (e.g. in books
chern or [specialist] journals) must be done very carefully

Publication by externals

31

because another legal requirement has to be met here:
A distribution of photographs depicting the children
may infringe their right to their own image. So may
according to § 22 sentence 1 of the Art Copyright Act, which is relevant here
 
(ArtUrhG) Portraits only with the consent of the depicted
disseminated or "put on display" in public. It is because of that
an important requirement that parents order their written
Consent is requested and this expressly refers to the
planned publication of the respective photo. Be Fo-
tos in printed matter (books, magazines, etc.) is a
Withdrawal of parental consent is no longer possible if
these have already been printed or the print order has been issued. All-
 
However, a revocation must be taken into account in the case of a new edition
become.
 
In the event of a planned publication of images, parents should
on the Internet, attention should also be drawn to the fact that
the recordings can be called up worldwide and saved by anyone
can be cherted. In addition, there is the possibility
that the images and information are used by third parties in order to
to create a profile of the child from various sources. Data
can be found via search engines with little effort.
A removal of photos once published on the Internet is
difficult because, especially with shared content, e.g. B.
in social networks, it is not possible to understand who
have achieved this and, above all, whether the appropriate content
has been saved and can therefore be reused. Also
illustrated articles in the daily press, in trade journals or similar are
can often be called up via the Internet, so that the same requirements
conditions apply. The names and ages of the children must be given in

32

usually not necessary in this context. If this should happen
 
be necessary, the parents must give their specific consent
To give.

33

4. Data protection for image, sound

and video recordings
from employees
employees

34

Since day care workers are not usually dependently employed
 
this section applies only to employees who have children
carried out in both public and private sponsorship.
 
In day-care centers, image, sound and video recordings of
 
now common practice among employees. Such recordings will
 
mostly in the context of documentation of everyday pedagogical work,
of further education and training, of scientific projects
or for the public relations work of the institution or the institution
prepared. The recordings are usually for educational purposes
purposes intended. The recording of a small interaction sequence
 
between a social worker and a child
as well as a subsequent, professional feedback discussion
a valuable basis for professional and personal development
be winding. Behavior control via video or sound recording
However, acceptance by the employer must be ruled out
become.
 
The following questions arise from these situations:
• Can an educational professional refuse, as part of a
 
research project or for collegial advice on yours
to be taken to work – even if the wearer
decided to take part in the project?

• What about records of employees who are no longer

work at the facility?

• Where and for how long should employee photos be kept?
  
 
In the documentation practice, the focus is on the employees
 
stand - e.g. B. in their interaction with children - the basic
sentences that have already been explained under 2.2 accordingly. In addition
 
There are three facts that need to be taken into account:

35

Requirement for the employment relationship

4.1
 
For any photo that requires effortless identification of a
authorized person, according to art copyright this applies
Right to own picture11. After that, portraits (photos etc.) are only allowed with
be disseminated (shown) with the consent of the person depicted. This
Principle follows the constitutional requirements and is in the
In accordance with the case law of the European Court of Justice.
An infringement is punishable.12 The requirements for an effective
me consent result from Art. 7 DS-GVO (see under 3.1)
 
Even when taking pictures of employees
is it personal data which - as in the previous
the following chapters – subject to special protection
lay. For day-care centers in public sponsorship applies in addition to
DS-GVO § 18 of the Berlin Data Protection Act (BlnDSG), which is based on
the validity of the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG). For
The BDSG applies directly to daycare centers in independent sponsorship. authoritative
is primarily the regulation of § 26 BDSG. There it says: »Per-
Son-related data of employees may be used for the purposes of
Employment relationship will be processed if this is for the
Decision on the establishment of an employment relationship
nisses or after establishing the employment relationship for
the execution or termination of which [...] is necessary.«
 
However, the job of education, care and upbringing
of children in child day care according to § 22 SGB VIII

11

12

§ 22 Art Copyright Act
§ 33 Art Copyright Act

36

without image, sound or video recordings of the employees
 
tend to be made. In the sense of the Federal Data Protection Act
this data is not required for employment purposes
ratio. The aspect of voluntariness and transparency
of handling the data collected from employees
and employees is therefore all the more important.
 
Another situation is when photos or video recordings
 
be prepared for annual accounts, festivals, celebrations or trips.
Everyone knows the photos of a group in which the pedagogical
professionals are shown next to "their" children. Here's from it
assumed that it is a normal part of the activity
ability of a social worker. But beware:
If such recordings are made in print or digital media (time
writings, books, internet, social media) spread, takes effect again
the art copyright, as already described under 3.2.6.
 
   
4.2
 
The following must also be considered: Employees stand up
because of the employment relationship with their employer – the institution
of the facility – in a dependent relationship. It's not over
agree that employees (have to) assume it
not being able to “afford”, e.g. B. to refuse a video recording,
without misunderstanding or even negative consequences on the part
risking their employer. Other employees or se-
 
Minar participants can build up pressure. These explain z. B.
to a video recording of the morning circle or a conversation
situation ready, which one according to various criteria
is evaluated. In such a case it is for a

dependency on the employer

37

sometimes very difficult to say »no« without comments or even
having to accept rejection. This means that the volunteer
the consent of those affected to image, sound and video recordings
taking is restricted. However, this voluntariness is the central one
Prerequisite for a facility to use the data collected
 
that person can use and process. The BDSG writes
therefore, that for the assessment of the voluntary nature of the consent
in particular the dependency existing in the employment relationship
ability of the person employed and the circumstances under which the
 
Consent has been granted must be taken into account.13
 
 
4.3

Requirements for image, sound and video
recordings of employees
 

 
Are image, sound and video recordings of employees planned,
those responsible (e.g. the lecturers
a further training, the specialist advisors or the
 
project manager of a scientific research project)
 
therefore explain in detail to the persons to be admitted why
it is and for what purpose a video or sound recording or a
photo fulfilled. Employees or participants must point out
be shown that there is no obligation to accept and
that a »No« does not have to be justified, without negative consequences
expected. A written explanation is an important basis,
the employees and participants in addition to the actual
written informed consent should be provided. This
The declaration must contain the following aspects (see also under 3.1):

13

 § 26 paragraph 2 sentence 2 BDSG

38

• description of the purpose or objectives of the recording(s),
• reference to the voluntariness to be admitted,
• Possibility to withdraw consent,
 
• Indication of when and where recordings are shown or played

and by whom they are viewed/listened to (access rights),

• An indication of where the collected data is kept
and to whom they may be passed on (e.g. also the
assurance that the data or feedback on the data
not forwarded to the employer),

• indication of when and by whom the data collected again
 

to be deleted,

• should a publication (e.g. in a book, a magazine
 
or an educational film) should be planned, should there be a reference
 
that the publication - if desired - also without specification
done by name.

 
You should also pay attention to the recording devices: private smartphones
may e.g. B. not be used (see under 3.2.3).
 
Are recordings included as part of further education and training?
discussed by a group of participants, the leader should
Be sure to point out the protection of confidentiality: the participants
undertake not to divulge details of the process to the outside world
spread.

5. Media Literacy as
educational task

39

40

Children grow up in a world in which dealing with digital
media is taken for granted from an early age.
 
On the one hand, life in a digital society keeps many
advantages, but also harbors dangers on the other hand
privacy.
 
In addition to technical knowledge and skills for application
Media literacy also includes an awareness of the consequences of
further processing of data. With increasing age of the child
 
Media use is no longer found exclusively in the parental home, but
 
also in other social (learning) places such as B. the day care center instead. There
Children are coming into contact with online media at an ever earlier age
leaving traces without being aware of it
it is all the more important to convey to them as early as possible
how important it is to handle personal data sensitively. The
Consequences of unwanted data processing, e.g. B. through advertising
or spam, also affect children in kindergarten
age. But children can only develop if
There are shelters where their data is protected and they are not
have to reveal everything about themselves. The Berlin representative for data
protection and freedom of information has set itself the goal of children
as early as possible for handling their personal
Sensitize data and give them data protection competence
convey. With the support of media education, a
gene children's website (www.data-kids.de), with the in-
playfully keep children aware of protection
of their own data is to be woken up. The website and the
The materials developed are aimed primarily at primary school
children, but are also suitable for all other age groups.
 

41

Educational professionals have an important role model function and
children can effectively promote data-sparing media behavior
sensitize. Awareness of one's own media behavior
– here in particular the data processing and transfer in the
 
Everyday day-care center work is a prerequisite for being a good role model. je
according to the age of the children can already be considered together with them
whether a picture will be posted online and what the consequences will be
connected and whether dissemination is necessary at all
and is desired. Parents should also take part in these considerations
related and made aware of what it means when
they put a picture of their child online or via their smartphone
share with others. Third parties can u. conclusions on
the child's name, place of residence, daily routine and leisure time
design (see the results of the miniKIM study14).
 
An important goal of media literacy education is the
ability to decide what to disclose when and what
better stay in a protected, private space. adults - be
it parents or pedagogical specialists - should get into the per-
put spotting the child and consider whether a spread
or publication is in the interests of the child. children in these
include considerations by giving them age-appropriate
clarifications and she asks if you agree
further important steps in the direction of media and data
protection competence.

14

Media Education Research Association Southwest (ed.) (2015): miniKIM 2014.
Toddlers and Media. Basic study on the media handling of 2- to 5-year-olds
 
in Germany. Stuttgart: o.V., p. 30

42

 

6. Advice on all questions
about data protection

43

44

For questions about data protection, the legal
texts are consulted:
 
 

the European General Data Protection Regulation,
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

the Federal Data Protection Act,
  

the Berlin Data Protection Act
  

and

Social Code Book VIII.

 
 
 
For individual questions or in the event of uncertainties in dealing with personal
ment-related data continue to advise and support:
 
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 
or
 
Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family
letterkasten@senbjf.berlin.de
 

The production of photos as well as sound and video recordings in
Day-care centers repeatedly raise data protection issues
Questions on. In day-to-day teaching, this often leads to uncertainty.
 
The purpose of this brochure is to provide educational professionals with
 
in a short and understandable form an overview of the data
protective regulations are given. The brochure can
at the Senate Department for Education, Youth and Family or at
the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
be requested.

