1/14

 File No.: EXP202210733

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 4, 2023, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate sanction proceedings against UNITED PARCEL
SERVICE ESPAÑA LTD Y COMPAÑIA SRC (hereinafter, the claimed party),
through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202210733

AGREEMENT TO START THE SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated August 24,
2022 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against UNITED PARCEL SERVICE ESPAÑA LTD. AND CIA SRC
with NIF C28328508 (hereinafter, UPS). The reasons on which the claim is based are
the following:

The claiming party states that it was the recipient of a shipment whose delivery was
Fulfilled by UPS. The courier in charge of the delivery, delivers the shipment without his
consent in a commercial premises, and not at your home, exposing your data
postcards and their telephone number, which was printed on the package from which it was
recipient, to third parties. This is also listed on the delivery note.

Along with the claim, the following is provided:

1.- Proof of delivery in which you can read:

"Dear Customer:
This notice serves as proof of delivery for the shipment appearing on
continuation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

Tracking number:
(CONFIDENTIAL)

Weight:
0.20 kg

Service:
UPS Express Know

Delivered/invoiced on
08/22/2022

Delivered on:
08/23/2022 14:57

Delivered in:
XXXXXXXXX

Received by:
B.B.B.

left in
Establishment

Reference number(s)
(…)

Thank you for giving us the opportunity to serve you. The details are only
available for shipments delivered in the last 120 days. print it to save
as a record if you need information after 120 days.

Sincerely,

UPS

Tracking results provided by UPS: 08/24/2022 9:26 EST”.

2. Audio that, according to the claimant, is from the WhatsApp application, in the
which can be heard:

"I tell you that I have left the package for you in the ice cream parlor that you have downstairs, in the
ice cream parlor ***ICE CREAM.1”

SECOND: On behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, a transfer was made
of said claim to UPS, so that it could proceed with its analysis and inform this
Agency within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the
requirements set forth in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on October 17, 2022 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On November 16, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating:

"In this regard, this party must point out that the conduct described, the delivery of the package
in a commercial establishment close to the claimant's home raises doubts about
in accordance with the requirements derived from Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD). It is understood that this is not actually attributable to UPS, in
the extent that:
i) the distribution is made in accordance with a contract in which the
safeguards for the protection of senders' personal data and,
ii) the label on which such personal data is collected that could have been
release is not made by UPS but by the shipper of the product, which my
principal is limited to transport.

However, given the situation produced and the claim filed, UPS has taken
the precise measures so that an event like this does not happen again. In
In particular, it has modified its operating procedures to clearly clarify
specifies the distribution of commercial establishments open to the public in the event of
Absence of the addressee from your address is not allowed according to the current
UPS operating procedures, which have been modified to clarify this
extreme".
(…)

UPS adds that: “It is respectfully understood that there are no other measures that
can be taken To the extent that we are dealing with conduct contrary to the
company practices, it is about reinforcing this notion by clarifying
its operating procedures.

With this, the requirement is answered within the term in the terms of article 37.2
of the LOPDGDD. And with the reaction of my client, the lack of
need to initiate a disciplinary procedure, in accordance with article 68
of said norm. UPS's reaction guarantees that the events will not be reproduced.
This, unique to the social and legal insignificance of the facts in question, makes the
continuation of the file is unnecessary."

Attached as Document 1 is a certificate from the company, dated December 16,
November 2022, in which it can be verified that this communication is made
by the UPS entity.

Also, in this writing it can be observed:

“Although the modification of the operating procedures has universal effects
for all shipping services contracted to UPS, it is specifically indicated that the
It is adopted as a consequence of the initiation of the informative file
EXP202210733, for the purpose of certifying the implementation of the most resounding measure
possible (the express prohibition of the conduct that has given rise to the opening of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

informative procedure) and that with this the protection of the
rights of those potentially affected.

THIRD: On November 22, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

previous questions

In the present case, in accordance with the provisions of article 4.1 and 4.2 of the GDPR,
consists of the processing of personal data, since UPS performs
the collection and conservation of, among others, the following personal data of
natural persons: name and surname, telephone number and address, among other treatments.

UPS performs this activity in its capacity as data controller, since
is who determines the purposes and means of such activity, by virtue of article 4.7 of the
GDPR.

For its part, article 4 section 12 of the GDPR defines, in a broad way, the
“personal data security violations” (hereinafter security breach)
as "all those violations of security that cause the destruction,
accidental or unlawful loss or alteration of personal data transmitted, stored
or otherwise processed, or unauthorized disclosure of or access to such data.”

In the present case, it is clear that there has been a data security breach
personal information, categorized as a breach of confidentiality, having accessed
improperly to the personal data of the complaining party, as a consequence of
the delivery of a package that contained, on the label located in a visible part of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

the personal data of the complaining party, in an establishment that does not
had authorization to do so, which has meant a violation of the principle of
confidentiality of the personal data of the complaining party.

Within the principles of treatment provided for in article 5 of the GDPR, the
integrity and confidentiality of personal data is guaranteed in section 1.f)
of article 5 of the GDPR. For its part, the security of personal data comes
regulated in article 32, 33 and 34 of the GDPR, which regulate the security of the
treatment, the notification of a breach of the security of personal data to
the control authority, as well as the communication to the interested party, respectively.

II

Integrity and confidentiality

Article 5.1.f) "Principles relating to processing" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Personal data will be:
(…)

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate data security
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or organizational procedures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is clear that the personal data of the complaining party (name
and surnames, telephone and address) have been unduly exposed to a third party, in the
to the extent that the personal data of the complaining party appeared on the label of the
package to be delivered to the complaining party, label that is in a visible place
for anyone who has access to that package. In this way, having
the delivery of the package occurred in a place that was not enabled for it, has
could suppose a violation of the principle of confidentiality of the data
personal information of the complaining party.

Therefore, according to the evidence available at this time
agreement to initiate disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from
the instruction, it is considered that the known facts could constitute a
infringement, attributable to UPS, for violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR.

Classification and qualification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

IV.

If confirmed, the aforementioned violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that:

"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 "Infractions considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

Penalty proposal for infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

V

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to start disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with
the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR:

As aggravating factors:

- The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered (section a): for having transferred the personal data of the party
claimant (name and surname, telephone and address), to an unauthorized third party
for this every time a package was delivered with the aforementioned information to
who should not

- Any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment (section e): There is, in this Agency, a disciplinary procedure
in which a resolution decision was adopted on September 20, 2022 by
the same facts, charged to UPS.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established in section 2 of article 76 "Sanctions and measures
corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

As aggravating factors:

- The linking of the activity of the offender with the performance of treatment of
personal data (part b): UPS routinely and continuously carries out the
Treatment of personal data

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR and 76.2 of
the LOPDGDD, with respect to the offense committed by violating what is established in the
article 5.1.f of the GDPR, allows to initially set a penalty of €100,000 (one hundred thousand
euro).

SAW

Treatment safety

Article 32 "Security of treatment" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which may include, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration will be given to
take into account the risks presented by data processing, in particular as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and
have access to personal data can only process such data by following

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of
the Union or of the Member States.

In this case, UPS had to deliver a package to the address of the party
claimant. However, since it is not possible to make the agreed delivery, we proceed to the
delivery to an establishment without authorization to do so. The consequence of this
action has meant that the personal data of the complaining party were
exposed to outsiders. Also, in this case, it is necessary to take into account
that, despite the fact that the label with the personal data of the complaining party had
been prepared by the sender, precisely due to the fact of having data
Personal information such as first and last name, as well as address and telephone number,
UPS should have taken extreme measures so that the package was not delivered to another
person other than the recipient of the shipment or someone authorized by him. In this
In this sense, UPS has stated that it has incorporated, in November 2022, a protocol
so that this type of situation does not repeat itself, but it was after the
produced this case.

Therefore, from all of the foregoing, it has been verified that UPS did not have the
appropriate measures in the event of a situation such as the alleged
that concerns us

Therefore, in accordance with the evidence available in this
agreement to initiate the disciplinary procedure, and without prejudice to what is
of the instruction, it is considered that the known facts could constitute
an infraction, attributable to UPS, for violation of article 32 of the GDPR.

Classification and classification of the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

VII

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the GDPR could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8, 11, 25 to
39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that
"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 "Infractions considered serious"
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. (…)

Penalty proposal for infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

VIII

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
draft decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings, and without prejudice to what
resulting from the instruction, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed according to
in accordance with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the GDPR:

As aggravating factors:

- The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
suffered (paragraph a): In the present case, UPS did not have in place the
necessary measures according to the risk, for cases in which it is not possible
deliver correctly.

- Any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment (section e): There is, in this Agency, a disciplinary procedure
in which a resolution decision was adopted on September 20, 2022 by
the same facts, charged to UPS.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established in section 2 of article 76 "Sanctions and measures
corrective measures" of the LOPDGDD:

As aggravating factors:

- The linking of the activity of the offender with the performance of treatment of
personal data (part b): UPS routinely and continuously carries out the
Treatment of personal data

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR and 76.2 of
the LOPDGDD, with respect to the offense committed by violating what is established in the
Article 32 of the GDPR, allows initially setting a penalty of €40,000 (forty thousand
euro).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

IX

adoption of measures

If the infringement is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, without prejudice in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the
GDPR, according to which each control authority may "order the person responsible or
processor that the processing operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where applicable, in a certain way
and within a specified period…”. The imposition of this measure is compatible with
the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, according to the provisions of art. 83.2 of the
GDPR.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,
HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against UNITED PARCEL
SERVICE ESPAÑA LTD Y COMPAÑIA SRC, with NIF C28328508, for the alleged
violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR.

INITIATE SANCTION PROCEDURE against UNITED PARCEL SERVICE ESPAÑA
LTD Y COMPAÑIA SRC, with NIF C28328508, for the alleged violation of article
32 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR.

SECOND: APPOINT as instructor C.C.C. and, as secretary, to D.D.D.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, if applicable, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE into the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Sub-directorate General of Inspection of
Data in the actions prior to the start of this sanctioning procedure.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided for in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations
sanction that could correspond would be:

- For the alleged violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5
of said regulation, an administrative fine of 100,000 euros
- For the alleged infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4 of
said regulation, an administrative fine of 40,000 euros

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to UNITED PARCEL SERVICE ESPAÑA
LTD Y COMPAÑIA SRC, with NIF C28328508, granting a hearing period of
ten business days to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that
deem convenient. In your pleadings you must provide your NIF and the
procedure number that appears in the heading of this document.

If, within the stipulated period, he does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

Pursuant to article 85 of the LPACAP, a proceeding
disciplinary measure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility, the problem may be resolved
procedure with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the period granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction that should be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 112,000.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

In the same way, it may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 112,000.00 euros and its payment will imply the
completion of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative to the corresponding
apply for acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
allegations at the opening of the procedure. Voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if both reductions were to be applied, the amount of the penalty would remain
established at 84,000.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two aforementioned reductions will be
conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of any action or appeal via
administrative against the sanction.

In the event that you choose to proceed with the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (112,000 euros or 84,000.00 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in the account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it receives.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

Likewise, you must send proof of income to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to continue with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the initiation agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft initiation agreement.
After this period, its expiration will occur and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

935-121222

>>

SECOND: On April 18, 2023, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 84,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the initiation Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
recognition of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or appeal via
against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Commencement Agreement.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

13/14

Termination of the procedure

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the heading
"Termination in disciplinary proceedings" provides the following:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed perpetrator, in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

According to what has been stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202210733, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to UNITED PARCEL SERVICE
SPAIN LTD AND COMPANY SRC.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations, interested parties may file an appeal
administrative litigation before the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Mar Spain Marti
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

936-040822

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

