1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00246/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant) on 11/11/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against GLORY GLOBAL SOLUTIONS SPAIN, S.A. with NIF A78084860 (in
forward the claimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are that by being
transferred the work orders has been disclosed, in the environment of the company in which
who works, your personal email address: ***EMAIL.1, when sending the
emails without using the blind copy option.
SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:

On 01/28/2020, the claim filed for
analysis and communication to the claimant of the decision adopted in this regard. Equally,
he was required so that within a month he sent to the determined Agency
information:

- The decision adopted regarding this claim.
- In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to 22
of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents, dates of implementation and controls carried out to
check its effectiveness.
- Any other that you consider relevant.
The Agency does not record a response to the transfer of the claim.

THIRD: On 07/24/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.
FOURTH: On 10/23/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringements of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the
provided in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.
FIFTH: Notified of the initiation agreement, the claimant on 10/02/2020 submitted
brief of allegations stating in summary the following: that contrary to what
indicated in the second fact, the respondent sent a response to the request for
information in due time and form on 02/18/2020; that in November the department of
Technical Service in order to promote the labor inclusion of displaced technicians and
complying with the request made by a working group, adopted the measure of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

organize monthly teleconferences of an informative and absolutely
volunteer; that the first of these calls was sent by email
set of 11/26/2019, to all Technicians and Managers of the Technical Service through
of their corporate addresses; that the same day, the claimant was forwarded said
email to your personal address, which is thus notified to the person in charge,
sending an automatic email informing that the meeting had been forwarded to the
personal mailing address of the claimant, which meant the inclusion of the address
of personal mail, among the list of people who would later receive in their
emails the informative note related to it; that given the difficulty involved
convene all interested persons who may be present at the
time of the videoconferences, this company undertakes to send a note
information to all those summoned so that they could be aware of the
topics discussed, thus, the email addresses to which they are forwarded are
all those that appear in the notification of the summons of the meeting between the
that the claimant's personal email address appears, an address that the same
entered when the call was forwarded; that has not been accessed, much less
unlawfully disclosed the claimant's personal email address
since, it is the claimant himself who incorporates this address once he had
forwarded the call, including it automatically in the list of
people who should receive the email with the informative note on the
meeting.
SIXTH: On 11/13/2020, a period of practice tests began,
remembering the following

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services that are part of file E/00101/2020.
Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement
PS/00246/2020 presented by GLORY GLOBAL.
Request the respondent to provide the 4 documents that he said he attached to the
brief of allegations dated 10/02/2020 as there are no contributions.
On 11/16/2020, the respondent responded to the test carried out whose
content work in the file.

SEVENTH: On 04/08/2021, a resolution proposal was issued in the sense that
filed the claimed, for the alleged infractions of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the
RGPD typified in articles 83.5. a) and 83.4.a) of the GDPR. However, it was required
to the respondent to adopt measures to modify suitable for the
configuration of the calls so that the resubmissions of the
same to non-corporate addresses, or, so that upon receiving the notice email of
forwarding to a non-corporate address, this address will be removed from the list of
summoned.

The respondent in writing of 04/20/2021 responded accrediting having adopted measures
in relation to the configuration of the calls.

EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 11/11/2019 the claimant filed a claim with the AEPD
stated that when the work orders were transferred to him, it has been disclosed, in the
environment of the company where you work, your personal email address:
***EMAIL.1, when sending emails without using the blind copy option.
SECOND: Headers of the emails sent are provided.
THIRD: The respondent in writing dated 10/02/2020 has stated that “he has not
accessed and much less spread illegally and without consent, the address
personal e-mail address of the claimant since it is the claimant himself
the one that incorporates this address once the call had been forwarded,
including it automatically in the list of people who should
receive the email with the informative note about the meeting”.
FOURTH: Evidence provided by the claimed First Call by e-mail
set dated 11/26/2019, to all Technicians and Managers of the Technical Service to
through their corporate addresses.
FIFTH: There is a notification provided of the forwarding of the call made by the
claimant to his personal address, ***EMAIL.1.
SIXTH: The respondent has indicated that he had promised "to send a note
information to all those summoned so that they could be aware of the
topics discussed” and that “the email addresses to which they are forwarded are
all those that appear in the notification of the summons of the meeting between the
that the claimant's personal email address appears, which he entered at the
resend the call.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

In the first place, article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must be
govern the processing of personal data and mentions among them that of "integrity and
confidentiality”.

II

The cited article states that:
"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”)”.
(…)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

Second, article 32 of the RGPD “Security of treatment”,

III

establishes that:

 "1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

IV

In the present case, the procedure brings cause as a consequence of the
disclosure in the environment of the company in which the complainant works, of his
personal email address: ***EMAIL.1, when sending unused email
the blind copy function/option and in which each recipient can see the rest of the
recipients.

The respondent in his response to this body has indicated that the
Department of Technical Service to promote the labor inclusion of technicians
displaced and responding to the request made by a working group of the
GPTW company, the measure was adopted to organize monthly teleconferences
informative and absolutely voluntary.

The first of these calls is made by means of a joint mail to all
the Technicians and Managers of the Technical Service through their corporate addresses
and that same day, the claimant resends the call for the meeting to his address
staff, ***EMAIL.1; the Microsoft Outlook email service will tell you so.
notifies the convener, who sends an automatic email informing that the meeting
had been forwarded to the claimant's personal email address.

This action of the claimant supposes the inclusion of his email address
staff among the list of people who would later receive the note in their emails
information related to it.

According to the respondent, given the difficulty involved in summoning all the
interested persons who may be present at the time of the
videoconferences, this company undertakes to send an informative note to all
those summoned so that they could have proof of the topics discussed, thus,
the email addresses to which they are forwarded are all those that
appear in the notification of the call for the meeting among which appears the
personal mailing address of the claimant, address that he entered when
resend the call.

It should be noted that, without going into details of a technical nature, some
computer tools or applications when a summoned forwards the meeting to
another mailbox, the recipient's email address is included among the
assistants in such a way that the possible previous additional information (change of
time, cancellation, preparatory material, etc.) or the documents derived from
what was agreed upon at the meeting (minutes, information, work plan, etc.) are communicated
also automatically to the added participants.

Therefore, it was the forwarding action carried out by the claimant that
caused the e-mails related to the
meeting to your personal mailbox (where you had forwarded the summoned meeting).

In addition, the respondent himself has indicated that if he had received the request from the
claimant requiring him to remove his personal address that was incorporated into
the list of email addresses of those summoned by the forwarding made by the
itself affected, the data in question would have been deleted immediately
in accordance with article 17 of the RGPD.

However, the respondent was required so that before issuing this
resolution adopt measures in order to modify the aforementioned configuration so that in
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

assumptions of similar cases, the forwarding of calls to
non-corporate addresses, or, so that upon receiving the forwarding notice mail to
a non-corporate address, this address will be removed from the summoned list without
necessity of having to request it by the claimant.

The respondent in writing dated 04/20/2021 has proven to have adopted measures
appropriate by blocking the forwarding permission on the email that is sent
from any corporate account, as well as the inclusion of an Informative Note in
the body of the call prohibiting the distribution of the content of both the
emails as from the meeting itself:

“The distribution, whether digitally or physically, is strictly prohibited.
of any information related to the company that is provided before, during and
after the meeting. Any use of this information other than
the mere consultation and visualization of it. In no case will it be allowed to share the
information (resend the call) with people/emails outside the company.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE GLORY GLOBAL SOLUTIONS SPAIN, S.A., with NIF
A78084860, for the alleged infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: FILE GLORY GLOBAL SOLUTIONS SPAIN, S.A., with NIF
A78084860, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD

THIRD
 
SPAIN, S.A. with NIF A78084860.

 : NOTIFY this resolution to GLORY GLOBAL SOLUTIONS

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

