
The Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, is launching a long-announced campaign to systematically educate data protection officers in the private sector, as part of raising awareness of the importance of personal data protection.
In the field of personal data protection, the official has a key role, and experience from practice at the local and EU level, shows that employees are often insufficiently educated and unqualified to perform their tasks. Therefore, on Wednesday, December 2, the first online workshop in a row was held, thanks to which data protection officers will acquire the necessary knowledge and skills to perform their tasks well.
On the occasion of the opening of the workshop on behalf of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Dražen Lučić, Head of the Information Security Department of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, said he was pleased that the Agency for Personal Data Protection and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to spend next year as well.
"Taking into account the important role and numerous tasks imposed on officials by the General Data Protection Regulation, the Agency recognized the need to conduct targeted training, which includes specialized knowledge and skills in personal data protection law and practice and information security. I sincerely hope and believe that this campaign will strengthen the role of data protection officers and provide final answers and solutions to this target group on how to adequately harmonize the operations of their organizations with the General Regulation to the mutual satisfaction, "said the Director. for the protection of personal data Zdravko Vukić and wished all participants good luck in their future work.
The workshop, which was attended by more than a hundred participants, presented the General Data Protection Regulation and its main provisions (definitions, principles, rights of respondents, roles and responsibilities of the controller and executor of processing (). Nevertheless, the emphasis of the workshop is the role and tasks of the personal data protection officer. This explains the main tasks and responsibilities of data protection officers, and only some of them are to advise processing managers on all issues related to data protection, conduct GAP analysis, propose technical and organizational measures, keep records of processing, resolve complaints, conduct tests proportionality, participate in impact assessments, communicate with the personal data protection authority, etc.
The implementation of these workshops, in addition to the acquired knowledge, is expected to develop awareness of the importance of personal data protection, as well as a kind of ethics of dealing with them. This would ensure that a positive climate related to the protection of personal data and more efficient application of the General Regulation is created within organizations.
