DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Dr Telemarketing Ltd  

Of:  Unit 3, Gateway Mews, Ringway, Bounds Green, London, United  

Kingdom, N11 2UT 

1.

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to
issue Dr Telemarketing Ltd (“DRT”) with a monetary penalty under
section 55A of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The penalty is in
relation to a serious contravention of Regulation 21 of the Privacy and
Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (“PECR”).

2.

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision.

 Legal framework 
 

3.

4.

DRT, whose registered office is given above (Companies House
Registration Number: 12750317) is the organisation stated in this
notice to have instigated the use of a public electronic communications
service for the purpose of making unsolicited calls for the purposes of
direct marketing contrary to Regulation 21 of PECR.

Regulation 21 applies to the making of unsolicited calls for direct
marketing purposes. It means that if a company wants to make calls
promoting a product or service to an individual who has a telephone

1 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

number which is registered with the Telephone Preference Service Ltd 
(“TPS”), then that individual must have notified the company that they 
do not object to receiving such calls from it. 
 
Regulation 21 paragraph (1) of PECR provides that: 
 
 
“(1) A person shall neither use, nor instigate the use of, a public 
electronic communications service for the purposes of making 
unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes where- 
  

the called line is that of a subscriber who has previously 

(a) 
 
notified the caller that such calls should not for the time being 
be made on that line; or 

 

the number allocated to a subscriber in respect of the 

(b) 
 
called line is one listed in the register kept under regulation 
26.” 
 

Regulation 21 paragraphs (2), (3), (4) and (5) provide that: 

“(2)   A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention 

   of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 
where the number allocated to the called line has been listed on the 
register for less than 28 days preceding that on which the call is 
made.
 

 

 (4)  Where a subscriber who has caused a number allocated to a line 

of his to be listed in the register kept under regulation 26 has 
notified a caller that he does not, for the time being, object to such 

2 

 
5. 

 

 
6. 
  

 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

calls being made on that line by that caller, such calls may be made 
by that caller on that line, notwithstanding that the number 
allocated to that line is listed in the said register. 

 
          (5) Where a subscriber has given a caller notification pursuant to 

paragraph (4) in relation to a line of his— 

 

 
 
7. 

 
8. 

 
9. 

 

(a) the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at 
any time, and 
 
(b) where such notification is withdrawn, the caller shall not 
make such calls on that line.” 

Under Regulation 26 of PECR, the Commissioner is required to maintain 
a register of numbers allocated to subscribers who have notified them 
that they do not wish, for the time being, to receive unsolicited calls for 
direct marketing purposes on those lines. The TPS is a limited company 
which operates the register on the Commissioner’s behalf. Businesses 
who wish to carry out direct marketing by telephone can subscribe to 
the TPS for a fee and receive from them monthly a list of numbers on 
that register. 
 
Section 122(5) of the DPA18 defines direct marketing as “the 
communication (by whatever means) of advertising material or 
marketing material which is directed to particular individuals”. This 
definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see Regulation 2(2) 
PECR & Schedule 19 paragraphs 430 & 432(6) DPA18). 
 
“Individual” is defined in Regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 
 

3 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
10.  A “subscriber” is defined in Regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who 

 

is a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 
communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 
 

11.  Section 55A of the DPA (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to 

 

PECR, as variously amended) states:  

 

“(1) The Commissioner may serve a person with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is satisfied that –  

(a) there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 
Directive) Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This subsection applies if the contravention was deliberate. 

 

(3)  This subsection applies if the person – 

 

(a)  knew or ought to have known that there was a risk that 

 

(b) 
 

the contravention would occur, but 
 
failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the 
 
contravention. 
 
 

12.  The Commissioner has issued statutory guidance under section 55C (1) 

 

of the DPA about the issuing of monetary penalties that has been 
published on the ICO’s website. The Data Protection (Monetary 
Penalties) (Maximum Penalty and Notices) Regulations 2010 prescribe 
that the amount of any penalty determined by the Commissioner must 
not exceed £500,000. 
 

13.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 

 

privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 

 

4 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 
overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
rights. 
 

14.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 

 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 

 

Background to the case 
 

 

 

 
 
15.  DRT is a telemarketing company registered at Unit 3, Gateway Mews, 
Ringway, Bounds Green, London, United Kingdom, N11 2UT. DRT were 
incorporated on 17 July 2020 and were initially called 'The 
Telemarketing Company Limited' until 23 December 2020, when it 
changed its company name to DRT. 

 
16.  DRT has had three directors, one of which remains active – Mr Chrys 

 

Elias Chrysostomou (appointed on 17 July 2020 and is a person of 
significant control), Mr Noyan Nihat (appointed on 17 July 2020, 
resigned on 19 May 2022 and was a person of significant control until 
12 December 2022), and Mr Laurence Douglas Adams (appointed on 
17 July 2020 and resigned on 17 July 2020). 
 

17.  On 16 December 2022, DRT submitted its confirmation statement 

 

 
which listed the shareholders as Ms Tracy Nowell, Mr Wayne Phillips 
and 
 

  

18.  Mr Chrysostomou is the director of 

 

, a 

 

 a catalogue company 

registered in England.  
 

 

5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
19.  Mr Nihat was a director of 

 

 from 9

April 2020 to 5 May 2023 when he resigned.  
 

20.  DRT first came to the Commissioner's attention through his 

 

investigation into 

, which was initiated following an episode of 

, a consumer rights programme that aired on BBC Wales in 

 

( 

) to TPS registered 

were making direct 

February 2021. The programme alleged 
marketing calls on behalf of 
individuals. Once the episode had aired, a notice went up on 
website which stated: 
 
had 
"We recently learnt that a telemarketing company used by 
been making sales calls to the numbers of some of our customers, who 
had registered with the Telephone Preference Service to avoid 
receiving unsolicited sales calls. Although our enquiries in relation to 
precisely what happened are still continuing. We [sic] believe that 
phone numbers called were those customers who had provided their 
details to us prior to January 2021. As soon as we learnt this had 
happened we immediately took steps to ensure no further calls were 
made." 
 
 

 

21.  Mr Phillips has had a series of past directorships, including 
 indicated that 

The episode of
, who have also previously been investigated 
a direct phoenix of 
and fined by the Commissioner for contravention of Regulation 21 of 
PECR. 
 

 
may be 

 

22.  Further, Mr Phillips was disqualified from being a director for six years 

 

from 26 March 2019, however, the episode suggested that he was 
acting as a shadow director of 
 

 

 

6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
23.  The Commissioner asked 
 for more details regarding the 

 

incident that lead to the notice being published. In their response, 

 identified the telemarketing company as DRT and that their 

 
24. 

 also stated that the relationship 

as their 

 and DRT began when DRT replaced 

point of contact was Mr Nihat. 
between 
telemarketer in October 2020.  
 
During the Commissioner's investigation into 
two contracts between DRT and 
Marketing Services Agreement ("MSA") and a Data Processing 
Agreement ("DPA"), both of which were dated 9 November 2021. 
is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
company of 
their business that related to 'reward clubs' to 
trademark issue. 
 

. On 1 September 2021, 

 
who is the parent 
 transferred part of 
due to a separate 

provided 
- a 

, 

25.  The DPA states that DRT is the processor and 

 

is the controller for 

the processing of personal data under the agreement.  
 

26.  The DPA stated that notices in connection with the agreement should 

 

be sent to "… DRT: 
Mr Phillips and although 
Companies House, its website 
registered office address as 
  
that Mr Phillips has previously used on Companies House. 
 

is not registered on 

 
and the same correspondence address 

are the initials of 

has the same 

27.  However, during the investigation, DRT provided the Commissioner 

 

with a copy of the same MSA and DPA but marked as "20092021 
Final". In this DPA, Mr Phillips' email address had been replaced with 
Mr Nihat's email address.  
 

 

7 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
28.  On 30 June 2022, the Commissioner sent an initial investigation letter 
to DRT seeking further information in relation to DRT's compliance with 
 
PECR. 
 

29.  On 20 July 2022, DRT responded to the Commissioner's letter stating 

 

that: 
 
 
  DRT provides affinity products and direct marketing campaigns to 

create increased customer experience and ancillary revenue for the 
business owner. 

 
  DRT sub-contracts data and campaign management exclusively to 

. 

 
  DRT does not use a dialler or obtain calling line identifiers; they are 

sub-contracted to 

. 

 
  DRT provides the products to be used in the campaigns but does 

not prescribe the campaign order. 

 
  Scripts are created and managed by 
 
  The products supplied are motoring management, gardening 

. 

discounts, Supercard, top rewards, Perx magazine, puzzle books, 
colouring books, and cooking tutorials. 

. 

 
  Campaign data is provided by 
 
  Data supplied is opted-in at the point of catalogue order. 
 
  DRT has a single exclusive relationship with 
 
  TPS screening is provided by 
 
 

before delivery to 

In 2021, there was a possible delay of updating data against TPS 
lists. This was addressed between December 2021 and January 
2022. 

and 

. 

 

30.  During the investigation into 

 

a "Partner Centre Contract" between 

, the Commissioner was provided with 
and DRT which was dated 18 

 

8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
34. 

further stated "the obligations that we 

In relation to Lotto Express, 
rely on for this source of data are that the records supplied to us are 
already customers of this client and have not requested to be removed 
from their marketing list". 
 

35.  The Commissioner's investigation into
 

 

 revealed that 

had made 

calls on behalf of 
DRT pursuant to the Partner Centre Contract. 
 

, however, they were contracted to do so by 

36.  At the same time as providing the Commissioner with the Partner 

 

 also provided a copy of a privacy policy for Lotto 

Centre Contract,
Express, a script of Lotto Express Calls and an Index Report.  
 

37.  The Partner Centre Contract required DRT to create, produce and 

 

 with marketing support materials and 

to comply with 

supply 
PECR. 
 

38.  The Index Report referred to the Lotto Express campaign as follows:  

 

 
"Trading names: Lotto Express 
Description: Contacting customers of the Lotto Express on behalf of 
Lotto Express 
Aim: To re-activate previously active customers for the Lotto Express 
client. The promotion offers customers to take part in a syndicate play 
 
of The Irish Lottery." 
 

's response suggested that data was obtained from Lotto Express, 

that this was existing customer data and that any contract for this data 
would be held by DRT. The nature of the scripts that 
had provided 
indicated that these existing customers may have responded to a 
previous Lotto Express mailshot. Other customers had opted-in to 
receiving a call regarding Lotto Express during a call they had received 

10 

 
39. 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

regarding other products such as Supercard or Premier Offers, which 
are 
 

products. 

40.  When the Commissioner previously asked 

 

whether Lotto Express 

TPS screened their data and requested that they provided an 
explanation on how Lotto Express customers opted-in to receive calls, 

 
responded: 

and Lotto Express 

 
"Lotto express also collect and store positive opt-ins for the data that 
they supply, [sic] this data source is compiled of customers who have 
joined the lotto express previously via physical means such as 
responding to a mail pack or insert. The positive opt-ins are 
documented by lotto express and data is also screened against internal 
suppression lists by both 
before marketing. 
 
[…]data is collected from opt-ins obtained via data that is initially 
generated by written responses, these are either mail packs or inserts. 
The example of the written response forms can be found in the file 
labelled “Lotto Campaign Response.” This form generates the customer 
for this client, at which time once the customer calls the client directly 
to make a further purchase the customer is asked if they wish to be 
opted in for future calls and time sensitive lotto draws. Only positive 
responders to this question are then supplied for outbound calling." 
 

 

41.  The "Lotto Campaign Response" referenced in 

 response was a 
free entry form into the Irish Lotto free prize draw entry and a free 
information pack. The entry form asked individuals to provide 
information such as their name, address, telephone number (for 
notification of winnings), mobile number, email and date of birth. 
Below this is a disclaimer that states: 

 

 

11 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
"By completing and returning this form, you agree that 
trading as Lotto Express and its group of companies may contact you in 
future by post, phone and/or email to keep you updated with exciting 
jackpots, new offers and other promotions, products and services. 
Please tick here if you do not wish to be contact for this purpose [by 
post / By email / By telephone / by text message]. 
 may 
also pass your details to its carefully selected partners. Please tick here 
if you would not like to receive information from our partners which 
may be of interest." 
 

42.  This opt-in statement relies on inertia to be opted-in and does not 

 

satisfy the criteria set out in Regulation 21 of PECR, and so TPS 
registered numbers should not have been called based on data 
obtained this way. 
 

43.  Whilst 

 

 had previously informed the Commissioner that the Lotto 

Express calls were made using either internal data or data provided by 
Lotto Express, a breakdown they had provided on 18 August 2022 
contradicted this. The data had identified that the single largest source 
of data is listed as "external Optin", which was said to be data from 
. This constituted 176,474 of the 179,313 calls which 

and 

 
44. 

equates to 98.4%. 
 
In order for the calls to the individuals marked as "External Optin" to 
 
be compliant with Regulation 21 of PECR, they must not have been 
made to individuals whose numbers were registered with the TPS and 
who had not objected to receiving calls from 
 

. 

 

 

45.  The Commissioner found that 

 relied on 'legitimate interest' as the 
lawful basis for processing personal data and individuals had to opt-out 
obtains opt-in consent via 
if they did not wish to receive calls; 
telephone calls but does not identify which third parties may contact 

 

12 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

the individual; and 
 also obtains opt-in consent from the websites 
 catalogues, five of which relied on an opt-out process 
of several
and one relied on a pre-ticked box that did not mention live call direct 
marketing. DRT provided the Commissioner with a copy of an order 
page from a physical 
marketing. 
 

 catalogue, which contained no reference to 

 

46.  None of these consent statements can be relied upon as a justification 
for contacting TPS registered numbers. Therefore, any marketing calls 
promoting Lotto Express made to TPS registered individuals using data 
from 
PECR as the TPS registered individuals had not notified 
do not for the time being object to their calls.  
 

 were made in contravention of Regulation 21 of 
that they 

and 

47.  Between 11 February 2021 and 22 March 2022 ("Contravention 

 

Period"), the Commissioner received one valid complaint via the ICO’s 
Reporting Tool regarding a Lotto Express call. The complainant stated 
that they did not get the name of the company that had called and that 
the caller "tried to get me to join the Irish Lottery". This call was listed 
in the call records provided by 
 

 

 

48.  The TPS also received one valid complaint over the contravention 
period, however, this call is not confirmed in the call records. The 
complainant said the caller identified themselves as being from the 
Irish Lottery Syndicate, when in fact this was not true as they were 
calling on behalf of 
 
"He had all my personal details which he said he had got from 
following my purchase of UV Garden Parasols. He was trying to 
persuade me to buy cut-price lottery tickets for the Irish Lottery and 
said I would then receive free tickets if I gave him my credit card 
details. I said I would not give any card details over the phone as I had 

. The complaint stated: 

 

 

13 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

no way of checking where he was calling from. I asked him to send me 
an email so I could carry out due diligence on this offer and the 
company. He said he could not do that unless I bought the tickets first. 
 
I was not prepared to do this and so ended the call."
 

49.  This reveals that 

 

 data was used to make a call promoting 

. It also suggests the caller used pressure tactics to try 
to obtain credit card details, whilst providing as few details as possible 
about the product or the company and this is supported by the episode 
of 
  

. 
 

50.  From the various spreadsheets provided to the Commissioner by a 
 

 

communications service provider ("CSP") regarding the Lotto Express 
calls, 179,313 were listed as "connected", some of which were 
dispositioned as "busy" or "not answered" by the call handler, and 
175,989 calls were dispositioned as "answered" by the call handler.  
 

 also stated that the date of some of the calls as provided by the 

51.

 

 
provided the Commissioner with a 

CSP were inaccurate and so 
"corrected date" column. The Commissioner used the "corrected date" 
when screening the call records against the TPS register, which 
identified 80,916 of the calls had been made to individuals registered 
with the TPS for more than 28 days at the time of the call.  
 

 

52.  The Commissioner has focused his investigation on just the Lotto 
Express calls made to individuals marked as "External Optin". This 
totalled 173,185 "answered" calls, of which 80,240 were made to 
numbers that had been on the TPS register for more than 28 days at 
the time of the call. Therefore, discounting the other data sources, 
between 11 February 2021 and 24 January 2022, DRT instigated the 
making of a minimum of 80,240 calls that promoted Lotto Express to 
TPS registered individuals. The external opt-in data used to make the 

 

14 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

, did not satisfy the 

calls, which came from 
requirements of Regulation 21 of PECR.  
 

or

53.  As part of his investigation into DRT, on 25 July 2022, the 

 

 which they then provide to 

Commissioner asked DRT whether they obtain data from a third party 
other than 
making the calls, and if so, to provide the Commissioner with all 
contracts and campaigns with these data suppliers.  
 

for the purpose of 

54.  The Commissioner did not receive a response and so on 2 August 

 

 

2022, a further letter was sent to DRT requesting the same 
information. 
 

55.  On 3 August 2022, DRT responded stating: 

 

] and receive a 

 
"We do carry out the same campaigns for [ 
relatively small amount of data from them. 
 
All information will have been supplied by [ 
is compiled. DRT supplies the same products described for these 
campaigns." 
 

] as to the how this data 

56.  DRT's response on 3 August 2022 contradicts their statement on 20 

 

July 2022 that identified 
occasion did DRT mention Lotto Express.  
 

 as their only data source. On neither 

57.  That same day, the Commissioner asked DRT to provide a copy of any 

 

, a copy of a physical 

contracts between DRT and 
catalogue that shows how individuals opt-in to receive marketing calls, 
and any contracts covering agreements with any data suppliers other 
than 
that they only provide data and instigate calls through 

. DRT were asked, in the alternative, to confirm 

and 

. 

 

 

15 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

58.  On 25 August 2022, DRT responded to the Commissioner providing a 
 data sources, a copy of a catalogue order page 

mailing instructions, and stated: 

spreadsheet of 
and 
 
"There is no formal agreement with 
for data. Data is paid on a 
commission basis based on sales made… Data is supplied on a monthly 
basis directly from 
 
…[DRT] only use data from the sources mentioned and all calls are 
instigated via [ 
are no other data sources or contracts". 
 

] who receive all data directly from source. There 

... 

 

59.  Throughout the investigation, DRT’s responses were not signed off by a 
specific individual. Despite being asked to name the correspondent, the 
responses were signed from “Dr Telemarketing.” However, one 
response was sent as a Microsoft Word file and the metadata of the file 
 
showed that it was last modified by 
has 
been a director of 
contact for 
organisation. 
 

 since 2 August 2022, and was the point of 
 during the Commissioner's investigation into that 

. Mr 

60.  On 13 September 2022, the Commissioner sent DRT an end of 

 

investigation letter which referred to Commissioner's powers that were 
set out in the initial investigation letter. 
 
In order to understand why DRT had contracted 
 
Express calls, on 20 October 2022, the Commissioner asked DRT: 
 
 
  Why DRT contracted

 to make calls regarding “The Irish Lottery 

to make the Lotto 

 

 
on behalf of Lotto Express.” 

 
  What was the connection between DRT and Lotto Express. 

16 

 
61. 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

further explained: 

 to make calls regarding Lotto Express although 

data was used by 
these calls ceased in October 2021. Mr 
 
"The Lotto product was not sold to 
’s customers by way of cold 
calling. Details relating to the Lotto product offering were contained in 
some of 
s catalogues during the relevant period and customers 
who wished to participate in the offer had to provide their phone 
number so that they could then be called to enter into the lotto product 
 
offering." 
 

67.  On 1 March 2023, the Commissioner put his findings to 

 

 

namely that: 
 
 
  He has had sight of calls made during the Contravention Period, 

which goes beyond the timeframe specified by Mr 
2021). 

 (October 

 
  Lotto Express appears to be a trading name of 

, 

which seems to be a different entity to the one named in the 
catalogue extract provided by Mr 

; and 

 
  The Commissioner is in possession of scripts that indicate these 

lottery calls were marketing calls.  

 
68.  The Commissioner also provided 

 

advertised Lotto Express. Mr 

 were aware of and had instigated calls to 

with the script used that 

was asked whether or not 
 
trading as Lotto Express. 

customers promoting 
 

 

69.  On 10 March 2023, Mr 

responded to the Commissioner 
explaining that his previous letter dated 16 February 2023 had 
referenced a free entry into the UK national lottery campaign, which 

 

18 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

was a completely separate product to the Lotto Express campaign. He 
further stated: 
 
"I don’t believe that 
Lotto Express Irish national lottery syndicate offering. If they did then I 
further confirm that 
 was not aware of it, did not initiate 
it and did not receive any payments/commission for the use of its 
customer data." 
 

 customers to promote the 

called 

70.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the 80,240 calls were all made for 

 

the purposes of direct marketing as defined by section 122(5) DPA18.  

 
71.  The Commissioner has made the above findings of fact on the 

 

balance of probabilities. 
 

72.  The Commissioner has considered whether those facts constitute a 

 

contravention of Regulation 21 of PECR by DRT and, if so, whether the 
conditions of section 55A DPA are satisfied.  

 

The contravention 

 
73.  The Commissioner finds that DRT contravened Regulation 21 of PECR.  

 

 

74.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 

 

 

75.  Between 11 February 2021 and 22 March 2022, DRT instigated the use 

 

 

of a public telecommunications service for the purposes of making 
80,240 unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes to subscribers 
where the number allocated to the subscriber in respect of the called 
line was a number listed on the register of numbers kept by the 
Commissioner in accordance with Regulation 26, contrary to Regulation 

 

19 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

21(1)(b) of PECR. This resulted in two complaints being made to the 
TPS and the Commissioner. 
 

76.  The Commissioner is also satisfied for the purposes of Regulation 21 

 

 

that these DRT unsolicited direct marketing calls were made to 
subscribers who had registered with the TPS at least 28 days prior to 
receiving the calls, and who for the purposes of Regulation 21(4) had 
not provided notification that they did not object to receiving such 
calls. 
 

77.  For such notification to be valid under Regulation 21(4), the individual 

 

must have taken a clear and positive action to override their TPS 
registration and indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls 
from the company. The notification should reflect the individual’s 
choice about whether or not they are willing to receive marketing calls. 
Therefore, where signing up to use a product or service is conditional 
upon receiving marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate 
how this constitutes a clear and positive notification of the individual’s 
willingness to receive such calls.  
 

78.  The notification must clearly indicate the individual’s willingness to 

 

receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on 
individuals opting in to marketing communications generally, unless it 
is clear that this will include telephone calls.  
 

 

79.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual’s willingness 
to receive marketing calls from that company specifically. Notifications 
will not be valid for the purposes of Regulation 21(4) if individuals are 
asked to agree to receive marketing calls from “similar organisations”, 
“partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar generic descriptions.  
 

 

20 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
80.  DRT has not provided any evidence that the TPS registered individuals 

 

had provided notification that they did not object to receiving their 
calls. 
 

81.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the conditions 

 

under section 55A DPA are met. 
 

     Seriousness of the contravention 
 
 

82.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the contravention identified 

 

above was serious. This is because there have been multiple breaches 
of Regulation 21 by DRT arising from the organisation’s activities 
between 11 February 2021 and 22 March 2022, and this led to 80,240 
unsolicited direct marketing calls being made to subscribers who were 
registered with the TPS and who had not provided notification that they 
were willing to receive such calls, and two complaints being made as a 
result. 
 

 

83.  Further, the calls that were made regarding Lotto Express were highly 
exploitative and the calls deliberately targeted vulnerable individuals to 
maximise profit, which adds to the seriousness of the contravention.  
 

84.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (a) from 
 

 

section 55A (1) DPA is met.  
 

     Deliberate or negligent contraventions 
 

 

85.  The Commissioner has considered whether the contravention identified 

 

above was deliberate. In the Commissioner’s view, this means that 
DRT's actions which constituted that contravention were deliberate 

 

21 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

actions (even if DRT did not actually intend thereby to contravene 
PECR). 
 

 
86.  The Commissioner considers that in this case DRT did deliberately 

 

 
87. 

contravene Regulation 21 of PECR. DRT appears to be part of a 
network of individuals and companies conducting these kind of 
predatory marketing calls. There are links between 

 

and DRT. 

 were investigated and subsequently fined for 
making these calls, so the act of these entities carrying on is regarded 
 
as a deliberate act. 
 
In addition, of the 80,240 calls made to TPS registered numbers, 3,317 
of these were dispositioned by callers as “DNC TPS”, equating to 4% of 
the calls. The Lotto Express campaign was conducted within the wider 
context of a total 1,264,515 calls that were dispositioned this way by 

 who had been contracted to make the calls by DRT. The fact that 

this disposition was even needed shows an awareness that TPS 
 
registered numbers were being contacted. 
 

88.  For the above reasons, the Commissioner is satisfied that this breach 

 

was deliberate. 
 

89.  Further and in the alternative, the Commissioner has gone on to 

 

consider whether the contravention identified above was negligent. 
This consideration comprises two elements: 
 

90.  Firstly, he has considered whether DRT knew or ought reasonably to 

 

have known that there was a risk that this contravention would occur. 
He is satisfied that this condition is met because DRT had contractual 
obligations from one supplier 
screened, and simply took this at face value. DRT did not have any 

that the data was TPS 

 

22 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 and has not provided evidence of a 

contract in place with 
 either. TPS screening responsibility should have 
contract with 
been contracted to cover all data providers as a minimum, as well as 
procedures to ensure this was occurring effectively. Even where there 
 
have been tens of thousands of dispositions set as "DNC TPS" by 
there does not appear to have been any mechanism to identify this and 
mitigate it. 
 

 

 

91.  The Commissioner has also published detailed guidance for companies 
carrying out marketing explaining their legal requirements under PECR. 
This guidance explains the circumstances under which organisations 
are able to carry out marketing over the phone, by text, by email, by 
post or by fax. Specifically, it states that live calls must not be made to 
any subscriber registered with the TPS, unless the subscriber has 
specifically notified the company that they do not object to receiving 
such calls. In case organisations remain unclear on their obligations, 
the ICO operates a telephone helpline. ICO communications about 
previous enforcement action where businesses have not complied with 
PECR are also readily available. 
 
 
It is therefore reasonable to suppose that DRT should have been aware 
of its responsibilities in this area. 
 
 

 
92. 

93.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on to consider whether DRT 

 

failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the contravention. Again, he 
is satisfied that this condition is met. 
 
 

 

94.  The Commissioner’s direct marketing guidance makes clear that 
organisations acquiring marketing lists from a third party must 
undertake rigorous checks to satisfy themselves that the personal data 
was obtained fairly and lawfully, that their details would be passed 

 

23 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

99.  The Commissioner has not identified any mitigating factors. 
 

 

 

100.  For the reasons explained above, the Commissioner is satisfied that the 

 

conditions from section 55A (1) DPA have been met in this case. He is 
also satisfied that the procedural rights under section 55B have been 
complied with. 

 
101.  The latter has included the issuing of a Notice of Intent, in which the 

 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking. In reaching his final 
view, the Commissioner has taken into account the representations 
made by DRT on this matter. 

 
102.  The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to issue a monetary penalty 

 

in this case. 
 

103.  The Commissioner has considered whether, in the circumstances, he 

 

should exercise his discretion so as to issue a monetary penalty.  

 

 
104.  The Commissioner has considered the likely impact of a monetary 
penalty on DRT. In doing so, the Commissioner has given careful 
consideration to the representations made by DRT in response to the 
Notice of Intent. However, the Commissioner has decided that a 
penalty nevertheless remains the appropriate course of action in the 
circumstances of this case.  
 

 

105.  The Commissioner’s underlying objective in imposing a monetary 
penalty notice is to promote compliance with PECR. The making of 
unsolicited direct marketing calls is a matter of significant public 
concern. A monetary penalty in this case should act as a general 
encouragement towards compliance with the law, or at least as a 

 

25 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

deterrent against non-compliance, on the part of all persons running 
businesses currently engaging in these practices. This is an opportunity 
to reinforce the need for businesses to ensure that they are only 
 
telephoning consumers who are not registered with the TPS and/or 
specifically indicate that they do not object to receiving these calls. 
 
 

 

106.  In making his decision, the Commissioner has also had regard to the 
factors set out in s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015; including: 
the nature and level of risks associated with non-compliance, including 
the risks to economic growth; the steps taken by the business to 
achieve compliance and reasons for its failure; the willingness and 
ability of the business to address non-compliance; the likely impact of 
the proposed intervention on the business, and the likely impact of the 
proposed intervention on the wider business community, both in terms 
of deterring non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate 
businesses. 
 

107.  For these reasons, the Commissioner has decided to issue a monetary 

 

penalty in this case. 

 

The amount of the penalty 
 

108.  Taking into account all of the above, the Commissioner has decided 

 

that a penalty in the sum of £100,000 (one hundred thousand 
 
pounds) is reasonable and proportionate given the particular facts of 
the case and the underlying objective in imposing the penalty. 

 

 
Conclusion 
 
109.  The monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner’s office by 
 

 

BACS transfer or cheque by 19 March 2024 at the latest. The 

 

26 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

monetary penalty is not kept by the Commissioner but will be paid into 
the Consolidated Fund which is the Government’s general bank account 
at the Bank of England. 
 

 

110.  If the Commissioner receives full payment of the monetary penalty by 
18 March 2024 the Commissioner will reduce the monetary penalty 
by 20% to £80,000 (eighty thousand pounds). However, you 
should be aware that the early payment discount is not available if you 
decide to exercise your right of appeal. 
 

 

111.  There is a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 

 

against: 
 
(a) the imposition of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the monetary penalty 
     notice. 
 

112.  Any notice of appeal should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days 

 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice. 
 

113.  Information about appeals is set out in Annex 1. 

 

 

114.  The Commissioner will not take action to enforce a monetary penalty 

 

unless: 
 
 

 
  the period specified within the notice within which a monetary 

penalty must be paid has expired and all or any of the monetary 
penalty has not been paid; 
 

 

27 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 
  all relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice and any 

variation of it have either been decided or withdrawn; and 

 
  the period for appealing against the monetary penalty and any 

variation of it has expired. 

115.  In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

 

recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High Court. In 
Scotland, the monetary penalty can be enforced in the same manner as 
an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution 
issued by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland.  

 
Dated the 15th day of February 2024  

 

 
Signed: 
 
Andy Curry 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
Wycliffe House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 

 

 

28 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX 1 
 
 

SECTION 55 A-E OF THE DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998  

 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

 

Section 55B(5) of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person 

1. 
upon whom a monetary penalty notice has been served a right of 
appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the ‘Tribunal’) 
against the notice. 
 
 
2. 
 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:- 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 

a) 
accordance with the law; or 
 
b) 
discretion by the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised 
his discretion differently, 
 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
could have been made by the Commissioner. In any other case the 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 
3. 
Tribunal at the following address: 
 
               
 
            
                 Leicester 
  
LE1 8DJ 

  General Regulatory Chamber 

HM Courts & Tribunals Service 

     PO Box 9300 

 

 

 

29 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 

 
 

 

4. 
 

Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 
 

The notice of appeal should be sent so it is received by the 

a) 
Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the notice. 
 
b) 
If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not admit it 
unless the Tribunal has extended the time for complying with this 
rule. 
 
The notice of appeal should state:-

your name and address/name and address of your 

details of the decision to which the proceedings relate; 
 

the name and address of the Information Commissioner; 

an address where documents may be sent or delivered to 

a) 
representative (if any); 
 
b) 
you; 
 
c) 
 
 
d) 
 
 
e) 
 
 
f) 
 
 
g) 
monetary penalty notice or variation notice; 
 
h) 
if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above the 
notice of appeal must include a request for an extension of time 

you must provide with the notice of appeal a copy of the 

 
the result that you are seeking; 

the grounds on which you rely; 

 

30 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

and the reason why the notice of appeal was not provided in 
time. 

Before deciding whether or not to appeal you may wish to consult 

 
5. 
your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an appeal a party 
may conduct his case himself or may be represented by any person 
whom he may appoint for that purpose. 
 
6. 
Tribunal (Information Rights) are contained in section 55B(5) of, and 
Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal Procedure 
(First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009 
 
(Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier 

 

 
 

 

 

31 

