 
 
 
 
 
 

711.445.1

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

August 16, 2021

 

 

 

Data protection for children: New workshop for primary schools in Berlin
 
For the new school year, the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information, Maja Smoltczyk, her revised media education offer and
offers Berlin primary schools a new and free workshop format.
 
The "Privacy for Children" workshop is aimed specifically at grades 4 to 6.
Spread over five lessons, the workshop imparts digital skills and guides
into the data protection world. The students discover in a playful way what data is, how it
are collected and why they are worth protecting. Why data protection also in the
Homeschooling is important is explained in a video.
 
Another focus is information about personalized advertising: through the
By making fictitious advertisements, the students deepen their understanding of
personalized advertising and use of published data. Based on practical
Case studies, the students discuss how they would behave personally. At the
At the end of the workshop, a data protection agreement will be concluded.
 
“To teach children at an early age what personal data is, what is behind it
term data protection hides and how you can influence what happens with your
data happens is of particular concern to me. With the help of games and interactive
units, the students learn in our new workshop what rights they have,
how to protect yourself personally and in particular how to be safe on the Internet
can,” says Maja Smoltczyk, Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information.
 
Elementary school children, teachers and parents can find extensive information at www.data-kids.de
Materials to help you better navigate the world of privacy.
 
Interested teachers can register for the workshop by e-mail or telephone.
 
Phone:
 
E-mail:
Website:

+49 30 13889 - 124
medienkompetenz@datenschutz-berlin.de
www.data-kids.de

 
Responsible: Nadine Baumann

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

   