Madeline Moncrieff
Director of Legal & Corporate Affairs, EMEA
TikTok Technology Limited c/o Wework
5 Harcourt Road
Dublin Ireland
D02 FW64

Dear Ms. Moncrieff,

Brussels, 2 February 2021
Ref: OUT2021-0017

I refer to your letter dated 28 October 2020 in which you bring to my attention the matter of a letter
of  13  August  2020  from  the  Irish  Data  Protection  Commissioner  (the  “IE  SA”)  to  TikTok,  which  a
German  media  outlet,  ‘Netzpolitik’,  came  into  possession  of.  You  also  reiterate  your  request  for
further information about the TikTok Task Force and to open a dialogue with it.

In regard to the first part of your letter, I was of course surprised to learn that the concerned letter
has been disclosed, and I thank you for raising this important issue. The EDPB naturally takes such
matters very seriously. As Chair of the EDPB, I reassure you that such issues have my full attention,
and are followed up appropriately.

After receiving your letter, all members of the TikTok Task Force have confirmed that their authorities
have not been in contact with any journalist, stakeholders or externals parties in relation to the IE SA’s
letter to TikTok of 13 August 2020. For this reason, I see no reason to question the integrity of the Task
Force members. Also on behalf of the EDPB, I thank you for bringing this issue to our attention. We
are indeed concerned about any breach of confidentiality. Should you have further information about
the disclosure, I would of course be interested to hear from you.

Concerning the TikTok Task Force and its terms of reference, its aim is to enable its members to
exchange information regarding any enforcement proceedings relating to TikTok’s compliance with
the GDPR undertaken by the participating authorities. The EDPB is not conducting on its own any
enforcement action, as this does not fall within its remit.

As a final remark, I kindly call to your attention that the EDPB is an independent body whose main
mission is to ensure consistency in the interpretation and application of the GDPR. The EDPB’s tasks
do not include substituting national data supervisory authorities conducting investigations. Should you
wish to further exchange on ongoing proceedings, I therefore kindly refer you to contact directly the

supervisory authorities in charge and with whom you are already in contact. They will be able to assist
you with your requests.

Yours sincerely,

Andrea Jelinek

