 

 

 

 
Brussels, 19 November 2020 

Ref: OUT2020-0122 

Subject: Letter of 13 July 2020 from News Media Europe and others 

To whom it may concern, 

I refer to your  letter dated July 13th 2020, in which you  raise questions  on  the French Conseil  d’Etat 

decision  of  June  19th  20201,  regarding which  the  Commission  Nationale  Informatique  et  Libertés 

(“CNIL”) has provided full information to the European Data Protection Board (“EDPB”) members.  

First of all, the EDPB would like to underline  that in the opposite  of what may have sometimes been 

reported in the press, the French Court did not take a position  on whether “cookie walls” are lawful 

or not on  the merits, but considered  that the CNIL could  not set out a general and absolute ban of 

cookie walls in a soft law instrument like its guidelines on Article 82 of the French data protection act2. 

Furthermore, as the EDPB has stated numerous  times3, the revision of the current ePrivacy Directive 

is an important and necessary step that has to be concluded rapidly. It is indeed the hope of the EDPB 

that the future ePrivacy Regulation provides  clear answers to stakeholders, data subjects  and Data 

Protection Authorities.   

Until then, the EDPB recalls that the 2002 ePrivacy Directive, amended in 2009, remains the applicable 

legal framework, and that the consent under the ePrivacy Directive needs to meet the standards set 

by the GDPR. Indeed, recital 17 of the ePrivacy Directive states that “For the purposes of this Directive, 

consent of a user or subscriber, regardless of whether the latter is a natural or a legal person, should 

have the same  meaning as  the data  subject's  consent as  defined and  further specified in  Directive 

95/46/EC.  Consent  may  be  given  by  any  appropriate method  enabling  a  freely given  specific  and 

informed indication  of  the user's wishes”.  In addition, Article 94(2)  of  the  GDPR clearly states that 

“References to the repealed Directive shall be construed as references to this Regulation”. 

The EDPB also recalls that, in line with Article 70(1)(e) GDPR, one of its tasks is indeed to examine, on 

its own initiative, on  request of one of  its members or on request of the Commission,  any question 

                                                             
1 Available here https://www.conseil-etat.fr/fr/arianeweb/CE/decision/2020-06-19/434684  
2 Available here https://www.legifrance.gouv.fr/affichTexte.do?cidTexte=JORFTEXT000038783337 
3 See for example the Statement of the EDPB on the revision of the ePrivacy Regulation and its impact on the 
protection of individuals with regard to the privacy and confidentiality of their communications, available here   
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb_statement_on_eprivacy_en.pdf  

 

1 

 

covering the application  of the GDPR and issue  guidelines,  recommendations and  best practices in 

order to encourage consistent application of the Regulation. The EDPB notably fulfilled this task when 

issuing  the latest update of  the EDPB guidelines  on consent  (Guidelines  05/2020  on consent  under 

Regulation 2016/679, version 1.1, adopted on 4 May 2020). 

Kindly note that the EDPB continues to follow carefully the evolution of the negotiations on the future 

ePrivacy Regulation and would like to thank you for your continued interest in the work of the EDPB. 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

 

2 

