1/15



-File No.: EXP202100354

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated 06/14/2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against the CITY COUNCIL OF SALINAS DE PISUERGA with NIF
P3415800F (hereinafter claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are
the following: the claimant states that the respondent has given a third party access
to the administrative file in which a construction work promoted
by the claimant; said person, member of the Citizen Council of the municipality,
stated at a meeting of the same that the claimant should adhere to the execution of his
project according to the provisions of the report submitted and approved; the claimant indicates
How can that person know the details of the file, stating that
There is no formal request for access to it in the Registry, so
you understand that you have accessed the information irregularly; also points out that
has published the minutes of the meeting of the Citizen Council on the facebook page and
it contains your first and last name without your consent.

And it provides:

- Minutes of the Citizen Council meeting held on ***DATE.1.
- Photograph of the Facebook page in which the publication of the
mentioned minutes of the meeting of the Citizen Council.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The complainant in writing sent to this Agency dated 07/22/2021 has indicated the
Next:

"In relation to "the report presented and approved" it should be reported that the person,
member of the Citizen Council who made that observation, has never had access to
that file from this town hall.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/15

We do not know how he knows it, but it is easy to imagine that in the case of a town and a
a work of such little entity and importance and being the neighbor of the
claimant, at any time or place has been able to hear it.
In relation to the minutes of the Citizen Council, in which the name of the
claimant, it should be noted that the publication of the minutes is an exercise in transparency
of the public and that in no case can it be understood that there is an affectation to the honor or
the moral integration of the claimant and much less an attack on his dignity, nor
impairment of fundamental rights.
In the future, this council, which will continue in its exercise of transparency, will omit
any name that can offend sensitivities.”

THIRD: On 07/23/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

With dates 08/30, 31/2021 and 09/30/2021, the respondent has provided the following
information:
Regarding the procedure for registration and consultation of information and documentation
that works in the administrative files of requests for work presented by the
citizens, there are two procedures, one external and one internal.

At an external level to the town hall, to be able to consult a file
administrative, the interested party must previously make a request through
from the face-to-face registry office or through the registry office at the headquarters
City Hall electronics. Once the consultation request has been authorized, you will be
facilitates in the municipal dependencies in person the consultation to the
proceedings. At no time is a copy of the file provided.
Internally, the query is made through the management tool of
Manage files, the users registered to carry out the query are
the city council secretary, administrative assistant and the mayor. In addition, the
Files are also filed in folders which can be
consulted in person by the members of the corporation and
city hall staff. Both staff and the corporation have signed
the commitment of confidentiality.
Access to the tool is done through an electronic certificate or
name and password and has an access log.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/15

There are no records of access to paper files by
the corporation or public employees

- A copy of the records of accesses made to the file is provided
automated corresponding to the dates from 02/06/1019 to
08/25/2021, from which it follows that all accesses to the file have
been carried out by two users who, according to statements by the representative
of the City Council are personnel with authorized access and access is part
of their duties in the performance of their job.

- Provide a copy of the record of treatment activity called "REGISTRATION

OF ENTRY AND OUTPUT OF DOCUMENTATION”.

- Regarding the security measures, they state that the file manager
used is the managed electronic administration tool, certified
in accordance with the National Security Scheme with HIGH category,
with the AENOR certificate of qualified trust service provider,
ISO 27001 Information Security certification and compliance
of the GDPR.
Likewise, it states that all workers have signed a commitment
of confidentiality.

- Provides a copy of the risk analysis that contemplates the treatment "Management

administration of urban discipline records”.
The risk analysis report includes the identified threats to which
personal data is exposed, as well as the vulnerabilities that
they can take advantage of such threats to succeed. It has also been estimated
the damage that could be caused by the different threats in the event that
materialize, as well as the probability of its occurrence. With these data,
an estimate of the level of risk has been made and decisions have been made
to manage these risks by implementing security measures
that eliminate or reduce those risks that it has been decided to manage.
Regarding the security measures included in the risk analysis
relating to supports and documents establishes that:

o The storage devices of the supports and documents that
contain personal data must have
mechanisms that hinder its opening, by means of keys or other
means that perform the same function.

o Only authorized users should have the keys and means

that facilitate the opening of said devices.

o When the physical characteristics do not allow this measure to be adopted,
shall take the necessary measures to prevent the access of
unauthorized persons.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/15

o As long as the documents with personal data are not
archived in the indicated storage devices
previously, because it is in the process of being processed, the people who
are in their charge must guard them and prevent access by
unauthorized persons.

Regarding the security measures included in the risk analysis
related to access control establishes, among others, that:

o The staff will only access those data and resources that they need to

the development of its functions.

o Mechanisms must be established to prevent a user from
access resources with rights other than those authorized. sayings
mechanisms, in the case of computer media, may consist of the
assignment of passwords for access to them, or other
more sophisticated devices: biometrics, USB keys, etc.; and in the case
of paper documents, in the delivery of keys that facilitate the
opening of the storage devices where the data is collected
information.

FIFTH: On 02/18/2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the one claimed by the alleged
Infractions of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a)
and 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.
SIXTH: Notified of the initiation agreement on 03/09/2022, the respondent submitted a written
of allegations stating that as he already indicated in his day, no one was ever given
access to any file that had not been requested through the channel
regulatory; that the citizen council member cited had never applied for the
mentioned file and had never had access to it; which was published in
Facebook an act of the citizen council for the sake of transparency of the
public performances and it contains information with names and surnames that, in
no case affects dignity or reveals any secret, because what is published is public
and notorious, nor can it be considered harmful to the interests or honor of anyone; when
the person in charge of the Diputación de Palencia for data protection requested that
removed the data to which we refer and it was removed immediately; who understands
that it is not possible to initiate a sanctioning process.
SEVENTH: On 03/16/2022, it was agreed to open a practice period for
tests, remembering the following:

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection services that are part of the file.
- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement of
home submitted by the claimed party and the accompanying documentation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/15

EIGHTH: On 07/12/2022, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense that by
the Director of the AEPD will sanction the person claimed for infraction for infraction of the
articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the
RGPD, with a sanction of warning.
After the period established for presenting allegations by the defendant, there was no
submitted any writing.
NINTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 06/14/2021 it has entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claimant stating that the claimed party has given to a third party
access to the administrative file in which a construction work is regulated
driven by the claimant; said person, a member of the Citizen Council of the
municipality, stated at a meeting of the same that the claimant should adhere to the
execution of your project according to the provisions of the report presented and approved; the
claimant wonders how such a person could know the details of the
file, if the Registry does not contain any formal request for access to it,
so you understand that you have accessed the information irregularly; likewise,
declares that the minutes of the meeting of the Citizen Council have been published in the
facebook page and it contains your name and surname without your consent.
SECOND. The Minutes of the meeting of the Citizen Council held on
***DATE.1 in whose section, Requests and Questions, what is indicated by the
claimant in his brief.
THIRD. The respondent in writing dated 06/21/2021 has stated that “the person,
member of the Citizen Council who made that observation, has never had access to
that file from this town hall.
We do not know how he knows it, but it is easy to imagine that in the case of a town and a
a work of such little entity and importance and being the neighbor of the
claimant, at any time or place has been able to hear it.
In relation to the minutes of the Citizen Council, in which the name of the
claimant, it should be noted that the publication of the minutes is an exercise in transparency
of the public and that in no case can it be understood that there is an affectation to the honor or
the moral integration of the claimant and much less an attack on his dignity, nor
impairment of fundamental rights.
In the future, this council, which will continue in its exercise of transparency, will omit
 
any

sensitivities”.

Name

can

hurt

that

 

 

 

 

 

FOURTH. There is a screenshot provided of the Facebook page in which
The publication of the minutes of the Citizen Council meeting is included.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/15

FIFTH. The respondent in writing dated 03/08/2022 has stated that “Certainly
published on Facebook an act of the citizen council for the sake of transparency of the
public performances. In said record, information appeared with names and surnames
that, in no case affects dignity or reveals any secret, since what is published is
public and notorious, nor can it be considered harmful to the interests or honor of anyone.
Furthermore, when the person in charge of the Diputación de Palencia for the
data protection requested this town hall to withdraw the data to which we
we refer, it was withdrawn immediately.
SIXTH. A copy of the Risk Analysis has been provided; the treatment “Management
administration of urban discipline records”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each autho-
authority of control and according to what is established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
Data processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with
subsidiary character, by the general rules on administrative procedures
you."

II

In the present case, the facts revealed by the claimant are
materialize in that the defendant would have enabled a third party to access the experience
administrative tooth in which a work promoted by the claimant is regulated, as well
such as the dissemination of your personal data on the Facebook page of the claimed party.

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

"two. Each control authority will have all the following powers:

rectives listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of the
this Regulation;
(...).”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/15

The RGPD establishes in article 5 the principles that must govern the treatment

of personal data and mentions among them that of “integrity and confidentiality”.

The article notes that:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)
f) treated in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the damages
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing
to and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of
appropriate technical or organizational measures (“integrity and confidentiality”)”.
(…)

III

The documentation in the file offers indications that the claimant
do, violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, in relation to
Article 5 of the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality, when proceeding to the publication of
your data on the Facebook page of the claimed party.

As it appears in the proven facts, a screen print is provided
of the Facebook page where the minutes of the meeting of the
Citizen Council, where the personal data of the claimant is contained.
tea.

The duty of confidentiality, previously the duty of secrecy, must understand-
It is known that its purpose is to avoid leaks of data without consent.
given by the holders of the same, as well as to avoid leaks of the
data or transfers of the same to third parties without the existence of a legal basis that
legitimate.

However, the respondent in writing dated 07/22/2021 has indicated that: “Regarding
tion to the minutes of the Citizen Council, in which the name of the claimant appears,
It should be noted that the publication of the minutes is an exercise in transparency of the public and
that in no case can it be understood that there is an affectation to honor or integration
morality of the claimant and much less an attack on his dignity, nor detriment to his rights.
fundamental guys.

In the future, this council, which will continue in its exercise of transparency,

will omit any name that may offend sensitivities.”

And later in a letter dated 03/08/2022, he pointed out the same issue
that “Certainly a minute of the citizen council was published on Facebook for the sake of
transparency of public actions. In said record there was information
with names and surnames that, in no case affects dignity or reveals any se-
secret, since what is published is public and notorious, nor can it be considered harmful to the interested parties.
ses or to the honor of anyone.

Furthermore, when the person in charge of the Diputación de Palencia
for data protection requested this town hall to withdraw the data to which
we mean, it was withdrawn immediately.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/15

 However, it is estimated that the defendant would be responsible for the violation of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned regulation-
ment.

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
costs for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article.
Article 83 of the aforementioned RGPD.

IV

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, establishes that:
“The acts and behaviors referred to in the apartments constitute infractions.
4, 5 and 6 of Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those resulting
are contrary to this organic law”.

The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates, for purposes of prescription: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
entail a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular,
ticular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”

Second, it should be noted that the security of personal data

It is regulated in articles 32, 33 and 34 of the RGPD.

v

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:
"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of pro-
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons,
the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical and organizational measures
appropriate channels to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which in its
case include, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-
permanent silence of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to personal data
promptly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment
I lie.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/15

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
torized to such data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
feel article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee
warrant that any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge
do and have access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the
Union or of the Member States.

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

SAW

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
greater amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge in accordance with the articles
8,11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 73, for prescription purposes, qualifies

of “Infringements considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following
following:

(…)
g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance
to what is required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
(…)”

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as “all
all those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or alteration
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7th

10/15

accidental or illicit ration of personal data transmitted, conserved or processed in
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

The documentation in the file offers indications that the claimant
has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when a security incident occurred when
enable access to the administrative file in which a work of
claimant-driven construction; the third, a member of the Citizen Council
of the municipality, stated at a meeting of the aforementioned Council and that it was later uploaded to
Facebook, that the claimant had to adhere to the dispositions in the execution of his project.
put in the memory presented and approved by the local entity, without existing in the
Registration of the institution requesting access, which may imply an infringement of the
measures
organizational.

techniques

Y

 

 

 

It should be noted that the RGPD does not establish a list of security measures.
authority that are applicable according to the data being processed,
but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply measures
technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk involved in the treatment,
taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the nature, al-
scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability and seriousness
for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and proportionate.
to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the technical and
Organizational activities must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption,
capacity to guarantee confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures
you give.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the security level, parti-
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, as a consequence
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or unauthorized access
authorized to said data and that could cause physical, material and
them or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the processing from violating the
established in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate the
risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption.
These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including confidentiality.
taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application with respect to
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data to be protected. To the
assess the risk in relation to data security, should be taken into account
the risks arising from the processing of personal data, such as the destruction
accidental or unlawful loss, loss or alteration of transmitted personal data, conservation
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/15

data, susceptible in particular to cause physical, material or
immaterial”.

It appears in the facts and in the framework of the file of previous investigations,
that the AEPD transferred the claim presented to the defendant so that he proceeded to
its analysis and report on the incident and the actions carried out, indicating in
writing of 07/22/2021 that the third party, member of the Citizen Council, to whom
re the claimant has never had access to the administrative file.

In writing of allegations to the agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure
of 03/09/2022, the respondent reiterates and insists on his statements stating that
“This City Council, as it already indicated in its day, has never given access to any experience.
tooth to anyone who has not requested it through the regulatory channel. In the case that
we are dealing with, the member of the aforementioned citizen council has never requested the file
mentioned and has never had access to it.”

It is true that the respondent has reported on the procedure implemented for
registration and consultation of the information and documentation contained in the administrative files
ministrative, providing a copy of the accesses made to the file from the
02/06/1019 to 08/25/2021, deducing that they were carried out by
claimed staff with authorized access; Furthermore, it should be noted that all
all workers have signed a confidentiality agreement and the
copy of the risk analysis report where the treatment “Administrative management” appears.
treatment of urban discipline files”.

However, it is also true that in the response offered to the AEPD also
It also pointed out that: “There are no records of access to files in pa-
role on the part of the corporation or public employees”, so it could be done
spoiled.
see

caused

access

a

No

 

 

 

 

 

In this sense, the responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the
security breach revealed, since it is responsible for making decisions
tions aimed at effectively implementing the technical and organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk to ensure the
confidentiality of the data and prevent access to them.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the respondent
would be allegedly responsible for the violation of article 32.1 of the RGPD, violation
typified in article 83.4.a).

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories

responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

viii

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/15

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions
tions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or de-
pending from the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous communities, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations
them.

2. When the persons in charge or persons in charge listed in section 1
had any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will issue resolutions
tion sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish
as the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct the effects
cough of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
gain of which it depends hierarchically, in his case, and to those affected who had the
Interested party status, if any.

3. Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding section, the protection authority
tion of data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when
there are sufficient indications for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to
apply will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning system.
dor that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.
gives.

4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority.
tions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the
previous two paragraphs.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/15

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
tions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
ferred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infringement
tion.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In the case that concerns us, the present sanctioning procedure comes
motivated based on the presumption that the respondent would have incurred in violation
of the regulations on data protection, articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD.

It should be noted that the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 77 the sanction of
warning in relation to the processing of personal data that is not appropriate
Cuen to your forecasts. In this regard, article 83.7 of the RGPD contemplates that "Without
prejudice to the corrective powers of the supervisory authorities under article
58, paragraph 2, each Member State may establish rules on whether it can, and
To what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
established in that Member State.

In this same sense, article 58 of the RGPD, in its section 2 d) indicates
that each control authority may “order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment
I guarantee that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of this
Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period.
cified…”.

As indicated previously, it has been proven that the defendant
has breached the data protection regulations, articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, by
publish on facebook the personal data of the claimant and enable the
access to the administrative file, violating the technical and organizational measures.

It is necessary to point out that if these deficiencies are not corrected by adopting
the appropriate measures as indicated in articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD or
reiterate the behavior revealed in the claim and that is the cause of the
this procedure, as well as not informing this AEPD of the measures adopted
could give rise to the exercise of possible actions before the person in charge of the
treatment in order to effectively apply the appropriate measures to
guarantee and not compromise the confidentiality of personal data and the
right to personal privacy.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/15

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF SALINAS DE PISUERGA, with NIF
P3415800F, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF SALINAS DE PISUERGA, with NIF
P3415800F, for an infringement of article 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.4.a) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning

THIRD: REQUEST the CITY COUNCIL OF SALINAS DE PISUERGA, so that
Within one month from the notification of this resolution, prove the adoption of
necessary and relevant technical and organizational measures in accordance with the
regulations regarding the protection of personal data in order to prevent
incidents such as those that have given rise to the
claim correcting the effects of its possible infraction, adapting the treatment
of personal data to the requirements contemplated in articles 5.1.f)
and 32.1 of the GDPR.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF SALINAS DE
PISUERGA.

FIFTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance
with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing

  Electronic Registration of

through the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/15

of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

