Additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of
data relating to bill no. 7524 on the quality of services
for the elderly and amending: 1° the amended law of
May 16, 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of the buildings built; 2° the
amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and the
organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields
 

Deliberation n°17/AV9/2022 of May 20, 2022

 

 

In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of regulation (EU) n°2016/679 of 27 April
2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
(General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter the “GDPR”), to which refers
article 7 of the law of 1 August 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the
data protection and the general data protection regime, the Commission
national body for data protection (hereinafter the “National Commission” or the “CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.

On July 22, 2020, the CNPD notified bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for
the elderly and amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of
co-ownership of built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations
between the State and organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields as well as
as well as the draft Grand-Ducal regulation on the quality of services for the elderly
(hereinafter the “draft law”)1.
 
On September 27, 2021, Madam Minister of Family, Integration and Greater
Region invited the National Commission to notify the government amendments to the project
of law, approved by the Government Council in its meeting of September 29, 2021 (see below).
after “Amendments” or “Government Amendments”).
 
This notice will be limited to questions relating to the data protection aspects to be
personal character raised by the government amendments.
 
 

                                                           
1 Deliberation n°19/2020 of 07/22/2020.

Additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of

 

 

data

 

relating to bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for the elderly and

amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of

built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and

organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields

1/7

 
 

On the processing of personal data carried out by the organizations
managers

 

1. On the creation of an individual file

I.

 

has. On the purposes of the processing, the categories of personal data

and the controller

 

The National Commission congratulates the authors of the bill for having followed its observations
formulated in its opinion of July 22, 20202. Indeed, clarifications are provided with regard to
concerns the purposes of the processing and the categories of personal data which
would be processed in the context of each of the individual files covered by the bill.
 
Thus, the amendments specify for each of the individual files, that the organization
manager is to be qualified as data controller, the purposes of the processing relating to
the establishment and management of the individual file, and list more precisely the
categories of personal data that would be collected as well as the recipients
data included in the personal file3.
 
The amendments further provide that each individual file includes "a file
structured healthcare individual containing all data, assessments and
information of any kind concerning the state of health of the resident and its evolution. Regulations
Grand-Ducal specifies its content”.
 
However, it is regrettable that this draft Grand-Ducal regulation was not communicated
at the same time as the amendments to the bill, so that the CNPD is not able
to assess whether it is likely to raise issues from the point of view of the
Data protection.
 

b. On access to data
 

The National Commission regrets that the government amendments have not responded
to the question of whether access to the data contained in the personal file by the
residents or users, and, where applicable, by their legal representative was similar to that provided
by Article 15 of the GDPR.

                                                           
2 Deliberation n°19/2020 of July 22, 2020, see point II.2.
3 Namely the following amendments: amendment 28 which modifies article 12 of the bill, amendment 53 which inserts a new
Article 27(1) for home help and care services, amendment 72 which inserts a new Article 42 for
day centers for the elderly, amendment 128 which inserts a new article 87 for remote alarm services.

Additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of

 

 

data

 

relating to bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for the elderly and

amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of

built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and

organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields

2/7

 
 

The CNPD would therefore like to reiterate its observations made in its aforementioned opinion according to
which it suggests, if this access is similar to that provided for in Article 15 of the GDPR, that “the
legal provisions providing that the resident or user, where applicable, his legal representative,
can access his personal file or only the data concerning him for the
legal representative, [are] under the conditions and in accordance with Article 15 of the GDPR”4.
 

vs. On the data retention period
 

The bill provides for each individual file a retention period of 10
years from the end of the accommodation contract5, the care contract6 or the contract
of services7 “for statistical purposes, research and continuous improvement of the organization
manager” and that “at the end of this period, the data must be irretrievably
destroyed or anonymized”.
 
As for the criteria that would justify such a duration, the authors of the bill confine themselves to
indicate that the said provisions are based “on a wording provided for in the amended law of 8
March 2018 on hospital establishments and hospital planning”8. In effect,
Article 38 paragraph (6) point 5 of the said law provides that the medical documentation service
has the mission of keeping the data produced for a period of 10 years.
 
However, clarification should be made as to the criteria which would justify that a
such duration is also relevant and necessary in the present case, by virtue of the principle of limitation
the data retention established by article 5.1.e) of the GDPR.
 
Furthermore, with regard to the storage for statistical and research purposes of
special categories of personal data, as defined in Article 9,
paragraph 1 of the GDPR, in this case health data, it should be noted that such
retention for such purposes constitutes processing of personal data.
 
Therefore, it should be recalled that paragraph 2, letter j), of Article 9 of the GDPR provides that
where the processing is necessary for “scientific or historical research purposes or for
statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89(1), on the basis of Union law or
law of a Member State which must be proportionate to the objective pursued, respect the essence of the law
to data protection and provide for appropriate and specific measures for the
safeguarding the fundamental rights and interests of the data subject”.

                                                           
4 Deliberation n°19/2020 of July 22, 2020.
5 Last paragraph of paragraph (2) of Article 12.
6 Last paragraph of paragraph (2) of Article 26 and paragraph (3) of Article 40.
7 Paragraph (3) of Article 81.
8 Ad amendment 29, page 14 of parliamentary document n°7524/09.
 

Additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of

 

data

 

relating to bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for the elderly and

amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of

built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and

organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields

3/7

 
 


In addition, article 64 of the law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission
for data protection and the general data protection regime specifies that
such processing of special categories of data may be implemented by the
controller if it meets the conditions of article 65 of the aforementioned law. This
article lists additional appropriate measures that should be implemented for
such treatments.
 
Therefore, it is appropriate to draw the attention of the authors of the bill to the need to implement
implement such additional appropriate measures in the context of the envisaged processing.
 

2. On the processing of personal data relating to the condition
the professional integrity of managers and supervisors

 

The National Commission regrets that the observations concerning the lack of precision as to
the criteria to be taken into account to assess the professional integrity of the persons in charge of
management and supervisory staff were not taken into consideration by the authors of the
law Project.
 
Thus, the CNPD would like to reiterate its remarks made in its opinion of July 22, 2020 according to
which it considered that “[s]if the condition of professional integrity is assessed on the basis
criminal record, the CNPD understands that this will be done in accordance with the provisions
of Article 8-5 of the law of July 23, 2016 amending 1) the law of March 29, 2013
relating to the organization of the criminal record, 2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 3) of the Penal Code.
If this is the case, she suggests specifying in the text of the bill for greater clarity the term
“judicial” just after the term “antecedents”. Furthermore, it would be important to specify
what degree of seriousness of the criminal record would be taken into account by the organizations
managers in order to assess the condition of professional integrity of the manager and
coaching staff. The CNPD wonders in particular whether any entry in the criminal record
automatically leads to a negative assessment in terms of professional integrity or
if, on the other hand, the registrations must have reached a certain level of severity. If this condition
professional integrity is not limited to criminal records alone, the Commission
recommends specifying in the bill the elements to be taken into account for
assess professional integrity”.
 
With regard to the observations of the CNPD with regard to the criminal record, it is necessary
to note that the Council of State agrees with such observations in that it considered, in its
aforementioned opinion of April 1, 2022, that "if the proof as to the language requirements and qualifications
required seems easy to report using certificates or diplomas, it is otherwise
with regard to the condition of good repute, insofar as the text under opinion does not

                                                           
9 Deliberation n°19/2020 of July 22, 2020, see point II. 1).

 

Additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of

 

data

 

relating to bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for the elderly and

amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of

built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and

organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields

4/7

 
 

determines neither precisely under what conditions this good repute is lacking nor by what
way this good repute can be proven. In view of the observations made by the Council
of State with regard to Articles 4, paragraph 8 and 5, paragraph 4 relating to the concept
of “honourability” and the means of documenting it, the Council of State asks for the sake of
legal certainty and under penalty of formal opposition, to refer to the “antecedents
judicial » »10.
 
II.

On the processing of personal data carried out by the Minister in
within the framework of the requests for approval addressed to it

 

The authors of the bill are to be commended for following up on the comments made by the
CNPD in its aforementioned opinion regarding the keeping of a register of approval files
by the Minister.
 
Indeed, the government amendments intend to introduce a new article 16 entitled
“Management of accreditation files”, which creates the principle of creating a register kept by the
Minister and which concerns the management, the administrative follow-up, the control of the requests for approval
as well as the management of the authorization files and the authorizations granted, in accordance with Article
6(3) GDPR.
 
With regard to the provisions of paragraph (5) of Article 16 concerning the treatment of
data for scientific or historical research purposes or for statistical purposes, it is necessary to
recall that the provisions of articles 89 of the GDPR and 65 of the law of 1 August 2018 on
organization of the National Commission for Data Protection and the general regime
find application in such cases.
 
These measures provide in particular that the controller must implement
additional appropriate measures. The data controller must therefore ensure that
respect for them.
 
Finally, paragraph (6) of Article 16 of the bill provides that “[t]he data processed is
irretrievably anonymized or destroyed no later than five years after
the end of the authorization or, in the event that the application for authorization has been refused, after the
refusal decision. In the event that data from the approval file is replaced by
new data, the data to be replaced are irretrievably anonymized or destroyed
at the latest after a period of five years from their replacement.
 

                                                           
10 Parliamentary document no. 7524/13, opinion of the Council of State of April 1, 2022, p. 21.

 

Additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of

 

data

 

relating to bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for the elderly and

amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of

built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and

organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields

5/7

 
 

If the authors of the bill are to be congratulated for having provided for such a duration, it is
regret that the criteria which would justify such a duration were not specified in the
commentary on the articles, so that the CNPD is unable to assess whether the principle
of the storage limitation would be respected.
 
For the rest, the CNPD reiterates its observations according to which it had considered that the
following provisions “[t]he Minister may request any other document or information
essential to the establishment of the file of the application for approval "would deserve to be
specified if these concern personal data11.
 
III.

On the creation of an ethics committee

 

The government amendments intend to introduce new provisions which provide
the creation of an ethics committee set up by one or more (in association) organizations
managers, who “is entitled to obtain communication of the medical elements, aids and
care as well as the individual file of the resident concerned which he needs to decide
knowingly”12 within the framework of the missions conferred on it by the draft
law13.
 
The authors of the bill specify regarding these provisions that "to ensure the proper
operation of ethics committees, it is specified that the managing body must ensure that
provide them with all the necessary means, which they are entitled to obtain
communication of the medical, aid and care elements and the individual file of the
resident”14.
 
In addition, if the people making up the ethics committee were not to be professionals
subject to professional secrecy, the CNPD wonders whether the latter should not
be subject to it, in particular within the framework of some of their missions15, although the decision
rendered by the ethics committee is confidential, given the nature of such data
(i.e. special categories of data within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR and more
precisely the health data of residents or users).
 
Finally, it should be noted that the consultation by the ethics committee of “medical elements,
aid and care and the individual file” of the resident or user, when the latter is seized
by the manager or the staff of a management body, constitutes a collection

                                                           
11 Deliberation n°19/2020 of July 22, 2020, see point I.2).
12 See articles 7, 22, 37 of the bill.
13 Articles 7, paragraph (3), article 22 paragraph (3) and article 37, paragraph (3) of the draft law.
14 Ad amendment 19, page 9 of parliamentary document n°7524/09.
15 The missions referred to in points 1° and 2° of paragraph (3) of Articles 7, 22 and 37 of the draft law.

Additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of

 

 

data

 

relating to bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for the elderly and

amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of

built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and

organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields

6/7

 
 

indirect data by the ethics committee. In such a case, it will be necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of Article 14 of the GDPR. Under this article, the controller must
provide the data subject with information about the processing that concerns him or her,
in particular to ensure fair and transparent treatment. This information should be
provided to the data subject no later than one month after the controller,
in this case, the ethics committee obtained the data.
 
 
 
 
Thus decided in Belvaux on May 20, 2022.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 
 
 
Tine A. Larsen
  President
 
 

    Thierry Lallemang Marc Lemmer Alain Herrmann
       Commissioner
    Commissioner Commissioner

 

Additional opinion of the National Commission for the Protection of

 

 

data

 

relating to bill no. 7524 on the quality of services for the elderly and

amending: 1° the amended law of 16 May 1975 on the status of the co-ownership of

built buildings; 2° the amended law of 8 September 1998 regulating relations between the State and

organizations working in the social, family and therapeutic fields

7/7

 
 

