Deliberation HAB-2022-001 of March 3, 2022 National Commission for Computing and Liberties Nature of the deliberation: Members and agents Legal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Thursday March 17, 2022 NOR: CNIL2207655X Deliberation No. HAB-2022-001 of 3 March 2022 authorizing agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties to carry out verification missionsThe office of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data;
Having regard to Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention and detection of criminal offences, investigations and prosecutions in this area or the execution of criminal penalties, and the free movement of such data;
Having regard to the internal security code, in particular its article L. 253-3;
Considering the law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 modified relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its articles 8.2.g), 10, 11 and 19;
Having regard to decree no. 2019-536 of May 29, 2019 as amended, taken for the application of the law of January 6, 1978, in particular its articles 16 to 19;
Having regard to deliberation no. 2013-175 of July 4, 2013 adopting the internal regulations of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties;
Having regard to deliberation no. 2019-020 of February 28, 2019 delegating powers from the National Commission for Computing and Liberties to its office;
After hearing Ms. Sophie LAMBREMON, Deputy Vice-President, in her report, and Mr. Benjamin TOUZANNE, Government Commissioner, in her observations, Decides: The agents of the National Commission for Computing and Liberties (CNIL) here- after designated are authorized, by reason of their functions, to carry out the visits and verifications mentioned in article 19 of the law of January 6, 1978 as amended and in article L. 253-3 of the internal security code:
Mr. Belaïd AÏT HAMOUDA, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Amandine ANDRETTO, legal expert in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mrs. Dorine ARNAUDEAU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Monir AZRAOUI, expert engineer in the technological expertise service at the technology and innovation department;
Ms Audrey BACQUIE, assistant in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle BARBÉ, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Siré BARRY, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Leslie BASSE, lawyer in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Jean BAUDRILLARD, jurist in the department of relations with the public in the department of relations with the public and research;
Ms Barbara BAVOIL, assistant in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Ms Nacéra BEKHAT, head of the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Ms. Khadija BELGHITI-ALAOUI, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Justine BERTAUD du CHAZAUD, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Martin BIERI, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Thomas BIZET, deputy head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Ms Claire BIZOT-ESPIARD, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mrs. Nathalie BOHBOT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Stéphanie BOISSEAU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Sophie BORY, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Ms Cécile BOSSER, lawyer in the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Ms. Aziza BOUALLAGA BENHASSI, in charge of developing tools in the compliance tools department at the compliance department;
Mrs. Soumia BOUASSAM, legal expert in the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Tanguy BOUCHER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Érik BOUCHER DE CRÈVECOEUR, lead health engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Valérie BOURRIQUEN, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Ms Flora BRAC DE LA PERRIERE, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Mr. Amine BRAHMI, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Justine BRAIVE, legal expert in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Rodolphe BRÉARD, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Véronique BREMOND, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Émilie BRUNET, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Ms. Solenn BRUNET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mrs Sarah BULLY, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Thierry CARDONA, engineer in the control service at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Marjolaine CASSAR, legal expert in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Madeleine CAZETTES de SAINT LEGER, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mrs. Lucie CHARTRAIN, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Régis CHATELLIER, in charge of prospective studies at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Ms Virginie CLAUDE-LOONIS, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department;
Mr. Antoine COURMONT, digital sociologist at the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Erika COURSAUX, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Olivier COUTOR, in charge of studies in the department of relations with the public and research;
Mr. Thomas DAUTIEU, Chief Compliance Officer;
Mrs. Manon de FALLOIS, assistant to the head of the health department in the compliance department;
Mrs. Marion de GASQUET, lawyer in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department;
Mrs. Alice DE LA MURE, legal expert in the service of data protection officers in the compliance department;
Ms Justine DEBOTÉ, assistant in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department;
Ms Christine DECHESNE-CEARD, head of the public relations department in the public relations and research department;
Mr. Guillaume DELAFOSSE, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle DELERUE, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Grégoire DELETTE, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mrs. Amélie DELEUZE, lawyer in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr Éric DELISLE, head of the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Xavier DELPORTE, Head of Service for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Maryange DICHI, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Sadio DIOUMASSY, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Julien DROCHON, auditor of information systems referent to the service of the controls at the direction of the protection of the rights and the sanctions;
Mr. Antoine DROIN, jurist in the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Gabrielle DU BOUCHER, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Marie DUBOYS FRESNEY, Deputy Head of the Economic Affairs Department in the Compliance Department;
Mr. Corentin DUPOUEY, assistant to the head of the control service in the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Hugo DUSSERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Louis DUTHEILLET de LAMOTHE, Secretary General;
Mrs Viktorija ELENSKI, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Anne FONTANILLE, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Mrs. Florence FOURETS, director in charge of sovereign projects with the secretary general;
Mr. Thomas FRESSIN, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Aurore GAIGNON, legal expert in the health service in the compliance department;
Mr. Gaston GAUTRENEAU, expert engineer in the service of technological expertise in the direction of technologies and innovation;
Mr. Rodolphe GENISSEL, Deputy Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Sophie GENVRESSE, assistant to the head of the department for the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Zelda GERARD, legal expert in the compliance tools department of the compliance department;
Mr Mathieu GINESTET, lawyer in the service of data protection delegates in the compliance department;
Mr. Yoann GONTHIER LE GUEN, jurist in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Jérôme GORIN, research and development engineer in the service of the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Sarah GUILLOU, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Hélène GUIMIOT-BREAUD, head of the health department in the compliance department;
Mr. Basile GULEY, lawyer in the department of social issues and human resources in the compliance department;
Ms. Estelle HARY, designer in the service of the digital innovation laboratory in the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Paul HEBERT, Deputy Director of Compliance;
Mrs Clarisse HESLAUT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Armand HESLOT, head of the technological expertise department in the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Marie HEUZÉ, lawyer in the department of sovereign affairs and local authorities in the compliance department;
Mrs Agathe HUBERT, lawyer in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Sonia HUDELA, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Nathalie JACQUES, assistant in the control department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Amandine JAMBERT, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Hugo JAUFFRET, jurist in the control service at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Julien JEDRZEJCZAK, responsible for legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs Véronique JENNEQUIN, legal assistant in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Karin KIEFER, Director of the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Joana KOJUNDZIC, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Jérémie KOUZMINE, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Névine LAHLOU, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Nina LE BONNIEC, jurist in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities;
Mr. Alexis LEAUTIER, expert engineer in the technological expertise department at the technology and innovation department;
Ms. Delphine LEGOHÉREL, Deputy Director for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Noémie LICHON, Head of the Sanctions and Litigation Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Mrs. Marie-Françoise MAINDRON, jurist in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Isabelle MANTZ, lawyer in the sanctions and litigation department in the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mrs. Delphine MARGULIS, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Astrid MARIAUX, Head of the Controls Department at the Rights Protection and Sanctions Department;
Mr. Tony MARTIN, Deputy Head of the Controls Department in the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Clothilde MAULIN, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Oriane MAURICE, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr Étienne MAURY, legal adviser to the President and the Secretaries General;
Ms Marjorie MENAPACE, legal expert in the service of data protection officers in the compliance department;
Mrs. Élise MERY-BOUDONNAT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Thomas MOREAU, lawyer in the economic affairs department in the compliance department;
Mr. Mathias MOULIN, Deputy Secretary General;
Mrs. Sophie NERBONNE, director in charge of economic co-regulation;
Ms. Ingrid NKOUENJIN, Head of the Compliance Tools Department at the Compliance Department;
Mrs. Rabia OUADDAH, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mrs. Marie PACALET, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Bertrand PAILHÈS, director of technologies and innovation;
Mrs. Adélaïde PATERNOGA, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Benoît PELLAN, in charge of the development of compliance tools at the Compliance Department;
Ms Lorraine PERRONNE, jurist in the service of sovereign affairs and local authorities;
Mrs. Bertrande PIAT-TAMBAREAU, legal assistant in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Antoine PLANCHOT, auditor of information systems in the control department of the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Benjamin POILVÉ, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mrs. Laetitia RACINE, assistant to the head of the department for the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Florence RAYNAL, Head of the European and International Affairs Department;
Mr. Vincent RASNEUR, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Antoine RICART, in charge of legal investigation in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints in the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Albane RICHET, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms Ismini RIGOPOULOU, jurist in the European and international affairs department;
Ms Caroline RILOS MACIAS, legal assistant in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mr. Valentin ROGER, Head of Information Systems Security at the General Secretariat;
Ms Anne-Charlotte ROUGELIN, Legal Advisor in the Public Relations Department in the Public Relations and Research Department;
Ms Mathilde ROUSSEL, legal assistant in the control department of the rights protection and sanctions department;
Mrs. Stéphanie SAULNIER, lawyer in the social issues and human resources department in the compliance department;
Mr. Benoit SEGUIN, Head of Service for the Exercise of Rights and Complaints at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms. Jeanne TADEUSZ, head of the sovereign affairs and local authorities department in the compliance department;
Mrs. Lola TAIEB, jurist in the sanctions and litigation department at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Ms. Jamila TAZI, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Vincent TOUBIANA, head of the digital innovation laboratory service in the technology and innovation department;
Ms. Margaux TRANCART, assistant to the head of the department for the exercise of rights and complaints in the directorate for the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Félicien VALLET, expert engineer in the technological expertise department of the technology and innovation department;
Mr. Benjamin VIALLE, Head of the Controls Department at the Directorate for the Protection of Rights and Sanctions;
Ms Anne VIDAL, legal expert in the service of data protection officers in the compliance department;
Ms Albine VINCENT, Head of the Data Protection Officers Department in the Compliance Department;
Mr. Paul VINCENT, lawyer in the service of the exercise of rights and complaints at the direction of the protection of rights and sanctions;
Mr. Christophe VIVENT, Deputy Head of the Technological Expertise Department in the Technology and Innovation Department;
Ms Clémentine VOISARD, project manager in the public relations department;
Ms. Sophie VULLIET-TAVERNIER, Director of Public Relations and Research. Deliberation No. HAB-2021-003 of September 23, 2021 authorizing CNIL agents to carry out verification missions is repealed. The authorizations mentioned in Article 1 are issued for a period of five years. This decision will take effect from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the French Republic. The President,
M. L. Denis