
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    11/26/2019
                                Cooperation event "GDPR - new practical examples" - a complete success! On Tuesday, October 28, 2019 from 2 p.m. Kugelmann, together with the companies BASF SE, SCHOTT AG and Boehringer Ingelheim, held the cooperation event "GDPR - new practical examples" on the premises of BASF in Limburgerhof.
                
                        
                                © BASF SE
                            
                    
             Due to the great response, this event continued the event series "Implementation of the GDPR - examples from daily practice". Since there is still considerable interest from industry in exchanging information about the application of the General Data Protection Regulation, the LfDI has agreed on follow-up events with the cooperating companies. The state representative reported on the focal points of his supervisory practice and the development of the submissions to the LfDI and its remedial and sanctioning measures, while representatives of the companies BASF SE, Boehringer Ingelheim, SCHOTT AG and Birkenstock GmbH & Co KG presented the data protection management systems in their companies. The procedure for reporting data breaches was presented and the specific handling of these was discussed. “The companies in Rhineland-Palatinate offer many good examples of modern data protection management systems and successful implementation of the GDPR. At the same time, since the GDPR came into effect in 2018, citizens have become more aware of data protection, which is reflected, among other things, in the increased number of cases at the LfDI. The number of complaints has increased fivefold and is currently leveling off at a consistently high level. With information, warnings, orders or fines, the state commissioner has a wide range of options to remedy deficits and to enforce the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation in a targeted and effective manner. Dieter Kugelmann. In a subsequent panel discussion, the above aspects were discussed in depth and the audience was given the opportunity to ask questions from their own work contexts. Further events in the same format are also planned for 2020. Information material for the event "GDPR - new practical examples" can be found here: InvitationLectures
                                return
                            



