                

CORRECT OP N DOWNLOAD
 

 

                   

Athens, 08-04-2019
 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/2592/08-04-2019

 

 

     

                   

 

      

 

     

 

 

   
PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  P O F S H 7 / 2019
 

    

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President to its headquarters on Tuesday 19.2.2019 in continuation of
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the meeting of Tuesday 26-06-2018 at 10:00, in order to examine the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case referred to in the history of the present. Its President was present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Authority, K. Menudakos, and regular members K. Christodoulou, A. ymbonis, K.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lambrinoudakis, C. Anthopoulos, and E. Martsoukou, as rapporteur. The regular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

member P. Vlachopoulos, although legally summoned in writing, did not attend due to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obstruction.
 

 they also attended the meeting by order of the President, without right
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vote, M. Alikakou, lawyer-expert scientist, as assistant rapporteur,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which left after the discussion and before the conference and reception
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of decision, and E. Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative department
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

affairs, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Publications on the internet, which came to the knowledge of the Authority,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

presented that the company with the name "One Team Limited Company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Organizations and Integrated Communication" (henceforth ONE TEAM) compiled
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

study entitled "Odor in Western Thessaloniki - Recording of existing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

situation - May 2017" (hereinafter Study) on behalf of the Group Greek
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
 

Petroleum (hereafter ELPE). The said Study (104 pages) was posted on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

internet freely accessible and contained, among other things, sensitive data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature (political views, participation in a trade union
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organization, participation in associations of persons).
 

 

 

 

 

With no. prot. C/EX/25.9.2017 in its document the Authority requested clarifications and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the two above-mentioned bodies in relation to the above-mentioned Study. With
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the one with no. prot. G/EI /7315/12.10.2017 response document of ONE TEAM
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

claimed that the company has taken over from ELPE "various works and projects,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

none of which have personal details and are indeed sensitive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any citizen" asking the Authority to inform it about it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

existence of a relevant complaint in order to respond specifically.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELPE responded to the Authority's above document with no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G/EI /7581/20.10.2017 document, with which they initially confirmed the conclusion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a private agreement with ONE TEAM with the object "the implementation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of an integrated program of outreach and informing the public opinion in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 outermost area of the Kordliou of Thessaloniki", where ELPE maintains
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

industrial facilities. specifically, according to their claims
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELPE, the provision of ONE TEAM's services was agreed upon in two distinct terms
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

phases: a) the phase of the recognition of the existing situation (assessment) and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

strategic planning and b) the action plan development phase.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In particular, the above agreement refers, among other things (term 2 of Phase
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1), that ELPE commissioned ONE TEAM to carry out "list mapping
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 of different stakeholders at local level (communities, universities
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

foris, political figures, NGOs)'. Furthermore, ELPE confirms the existence
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the disputed study and report on it in their above response document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that "they never rejected or accepted this study, as the collection and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 processing of personal data of specific natural persons
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 within the scope of application of the agreement and the purpose thereof
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of agreed services, not in agreement with the values and principles of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELPE, as reflected in the Group's Code of Ethics
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GREEK PETROLEUM. Under unspecified circumstances, this study was leaked,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

resulting in the knowledge of a large circle of persons". Finally, the ELPE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

state that with the statement of complaint from 6.9.2017 to ONE TEAM
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

denounced the above private agreement.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

The Authority came back with a new document (prot. no. C/EX/6874-2/4.12.2017), this
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the time addressed only to ONE TEAM, with which he requested from the company
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

she to send her opinions regarding the processing in question, as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

both from the above response of the ELPE, as well as from an investigation by the Authority at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

internet regarding the disputed study, the above response of ONE TEAM
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that he never processed personal data on their behalf
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELPE seemed to be incorrect. the said document the Authority referred to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specifically in the posting of the study in question on a specific website,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in which it was also mentioned that ONE TEAM had replied regarding it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under investigation claiming that it was confidential documents they had
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intercepted. specifically, based on what was claimed in said publication
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ONE TEAM's response stated, among other things, “The Technical Department
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Support and Communication Systems One Team A.E. find out
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this morning leak of her confidential files as well as wiretapping
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic communication, from a file where the principles of safe use are observed.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Part of them, concerning the Hellenic Madness series, were published –
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 possibly falsified – suddenly on blogs and websites”.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the above document of the Authority, ONE TEAM responded with the no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EI /705/26.1.2018 her document, with which she finally admitted that based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a private agreement had undertaken the planning and implementation of the program
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication and corporate reputation management regarding the odor issue
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the area of Western Thessaloniki. For this purpose, as stated in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in its above document, ONE TEAM proceeded "to the gradual gathering of elements,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information and opinions that have been expressed and made public and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 last name (website, social media, blogs, etc.). Her design
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

study was delivered to selected recipients at ELPE in May 2017 via
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic mail message, in electronic form. Actually one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Link leads to the electronic document of the study." THE ONE TEAM
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also claimed that the gathering of the above facts and information was
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

absolutely necessary, but also legal, as sources were public websites and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

social media, freely accessible, where the subjects themselves
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were expressing their opinions. Finally, ONE TEAM repeated what they had
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

states in its initial reply document to the Authority that, that is, none
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

of the subjects has not submitted a relevant complaint nor has he proceeded with another
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

action against the company.
 

 

 

 

 then, the Authority called the parties involved, i.e. the company ONE TEAM
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and the ELPE Group, in hearing at the Plenary meeting of 27.2.2018. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

first appeared before the Authority represented by the manager
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her advisor, A and her attorney, Panos Gerolimos, and expressed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and her opinions in writing with no. prot. G/EI /2026/13.3.2018 reminder
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her. The ELPE Group was represented by the legal advisor Alcibiades
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Poulia and expressed his views in writing with no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G/EI /2033/13.3.2018 memo.
 

 

With the above memo, ONE TEAM has added additional information to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

what he had so far declared to the Authority, admitting, however, that "Regarding m
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nominal references, at some point in the Study, become indicative references
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in individual reactions, in order to capture the causes of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of protests and ultimately to prove the credibility of the Study. In the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

context of these reports and to document the financial findings,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is also a specific reference to the name and surname, as well as indicative and only
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in case of bankruptcy. Also, there are references to ideological spaces or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

parties, to which members of the municipal council were indeed assigned
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

only members who participated in the public debate that took place during
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific period of writing of the Study and were placed in relation to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

instead of it". Furthermore, regarding security measures, ONE TEAM
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

argued, among other things, that a draft of the disputed study was placed in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ONE TEAM employee's personal account in the flip application and "the Link
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the link to the presentation was sent by A, via email to 4 recipients".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In addition, ONE TEAM referred to the 14/9/2017 Advisory Note
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the expert, whom the EMU TEAM assigned to check whether the measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had received by the company was sufficient even if the "leak" had been made by the company.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 according to the said note "the best possible protection of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy of the file during its distribution by the members of the partnership
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'ONE TEAM' and the unaltered access to the graph information ONLY from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the two above-described users of the 'ONE TEAM' partnership". Finally, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ONE TEAM to support its claims of fair and lawful collection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personal data stated that the processing in question "concerns exclusively
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 

and only our client, as the data was not transmitted or shared
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to third parties and as a result we were not obliged to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notification, and to obtain relevant permission from the Authority as provided for in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article 7 A, par. 1, p. b''.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The ELPE clarified, with their above memorandum, among other things, that they have never
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

instructed EMU TEAM to process personal data and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

denied acknowledging or accepting the submitted study. specifically,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the creation of a file with personal data they argued that this
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"is part of the agreed object of the above agreement and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fulfill the purpose of the agreed services, and of course do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

agreement with the values and principles of ELPE, as they are reflected in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Code of Ethics of the HELLENIC PETROLEUM Group”.
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file, after hearing her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the assistant rapporteur, who was present without the right to vote and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after the discussion of the case and before the conference and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

taking a decision, and after a thorough discussion, taking into account in particular:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. The provisions of article 2 par. a', b', d', g' and i' Law 2472/1997 on the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection of the individual from the processing of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

according to which, as applicable, “For the purposes of this law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are understood as: a) "Personal data", any information that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refers to the data subject […]. b) "Sensitive data" the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data concerning racial or ethnic origin, political opinions,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organization, health, social welfare and love life, related
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with criminal prosecutions or convictions, as well as participation in related
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above
 

associations of persons
 

 

[..] d)"Processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

character” (“processing”), any task or series of tasks carried out,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by the State or by a legal entity under public law or private law or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

association of persons or natural person with or without automated assistance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

methods and are applied to personal data, such as the collection, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

registration, organization, preservation or storage, modification, export, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use, transmission, dissemination or any other form of disposal, association or o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5
 

combining, linking, binding (locking), erasing, destroying [...]
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

g) "Processing Officer" anyone who determines the purpose and manner
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of personal data, such as natural or legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

person, public authority or agency or any other body. [...]  the)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Processor”, anyone who processes personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character on behalf of a controller, such as natural or legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

person, public authority or agency or any other organization."
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. The provisions of article 4 paragraph 1 of Law 2472/1997, according to which "[…] the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data to be subject to legal processing must: a) Yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are collected lawfully and lawfully for specified, clear and lawful
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes and that there is legitimate and legal processing in view of the purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these. b) To be relevant, convenient, and not more than each time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

required in view of the purposes of the processing. [...]".
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. The provisions of article 7 paragraph 2 of Law 2472/1997, according to which "1.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The collection and processing of sensitive data is prohibited. 2. By
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exception allows the collection and processing of sensitive data [...]
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

after permission from the Authority, when one or more of the following occur
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cases […].".
 

 

4. The provisions of article 10 par. 2 et seq. of Law 2472/97, according to which "2. For
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the controller must choose the processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persons with corresponding professional qualifications who provide sufficient guarantees
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in terms of technical knowledge and personal integrity to comply
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy. 3. The data controller must receive the appropriate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organizational and technical measures for data security and protection
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

them from accidental or wrongful destruction, accidental loss, alteration, prohibited
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dissemination or access and any other form of unfair processing. These measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

must ensure a level of security commensurate with the risks that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implies the processing and the nature of the data that is its object
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing. […] 4. If the processing is carried out on behalf of the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by a person not dependent on him, the relevant assignment is mandatory
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in writing. The assignment obligatorily stipulates that the person processing the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conducts only by order of the person in charge and that the other obligations herein
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article shall be borne by him accordingly."
  

 

 

 

 

 

6
 

5. The provisions of article 19 par. 1 item h) Law 2472/1997, according to which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"The Authority has the following powers in particular:... h) It acts ex officio or subsequently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaint administrative checks in the context of which the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

technological infrastructure and other means, automated or not, that support it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data processing. He has the right of access to the data for this purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal nature and collection of any information for its purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

control, without any kind of confidentiality being able to oppose it...", at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above, the concept of administrative controls does not include only the on-site ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

audits, but also audits conducted through data collection with others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ways, such as for example through correspondence or through meetings with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controlled entities, as in this case.
 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

1. The collection of information referring to natural persons and concerning
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

political views, participation in trade union organization and participation in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

associations of persons, as in the present case, constitutes processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data and particularly sensitive data within the meaning of article 2 para. d'
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

N.247219971. In order for the above processing to be legal, it should
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the conditions for applying the provisions of articles 4 and 7 of Law are met.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997. In particular, for the processing of sensitive personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is required, in addition to the fulfillment of at least one of the conditions that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refer to article 7 par. 2 of the aforementioned law, the data controller to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has previously requested and received the Authority's permission.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. According to the general provision of article 4, paragraph 2 of Law 2472/1997, the obligations of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the law regarding the processing of personal data shall be borne by him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller. his obligation also corresponds to this general rule
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller to take the appropriate measures according to article 10 par. 3
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

security. In particular, the controller must receive such
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate organizational and technical measures for data security and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protect them from accidental or wrongful destruction, accidental loss, alteration,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prohibited dissemination or access and any other form of unfair processing.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1 in the present case, the provisions of Law 2472/1997 apply, as the processing received
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

country in 2017, i.e. a year before the implementation of the GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
7

These measures must ensure a level of security commensurate with them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

risks involved in the processing and the nature of the data it is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

object of processing.
  

 

 

3. the case in question, from the elements of the case file, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hearing, the submissions and the whole process
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the following resulted:
 

 

 

 . The company ONE TEAM collected, among other things, information related to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

political views, participation in trade union organization and participation in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

associations of persons, which, according to the disputed Study, were active
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regarding the problem of the stench that came from their operation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELPE in the area of Western Thessaloniki. ONE TEAM therefore proceeded
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in processing personal data and especially sensitive personal data.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The collection in question took place in the context of the takeover by ONE TEAM
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contractual obligation based on the private agreement of 4/19/2017 that had
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concluded by the company in question with ELPE. In particular, according to the above private
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

agreement, ONE TEAM undertook the obligation "to design and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implement an integrated program of outreach and information to public opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in these areas, providing communication & time management services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reputation to ELPE". Furthermore, on page 2 of the agreement it is stated that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

among these services is "2. Mapping a list of differences
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stakeholders at the local level (public universities, political
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persons, NGOs, etc.)". ONE TEAM therefore processed the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the account of ELPE based on the above agreement. In this way,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ONE TEAM was the executor of the disputed processing, while ELPE
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were the data controller within the meaning of the provisions of the article
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 items g and h of Law 2472/1997, respectively. The ELPE claim that the EMU
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEAM did not act on their behalf, but acted voluntarily and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regardless of any corresponding intention of ELPE, it is not valid
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

because, in addition to the above condition of the private agreement, ELPE received
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Study in question as completion of Phase 1 by electronic mail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which was sent to them by EMU TEAM in early May 2017 and they proceeded so
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

upon payment of the agreed price, as defined above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

private agreement, as both ELPE and ONE TEAM confirmed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

during the examination of the case at hand. In addition, after receiving the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8
 

of electronic mail, ELPE proceeded to Phase 2 of it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

agreed program. ELPE maintains that both its continuation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

program, as well as the payment of what was agreed for what had been delivered up to that point
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work of honor in EMU TEAM do not in themselves imply the party
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the acceptance of the disputed Study, citing, in particular, the fact that it did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they had checked. Except that, however, this fact was not proven before her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In principle, the claim is rejected because from the evidence that has been presented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is no non-acceptance and refusal of approval by the ELPE of the Study nor the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tacit rejection of it. On the contrary, from the above, taking into account
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

term of the above private agreement, according to which "The two parties
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

agree that upon completion and/or during Phase 1 they will
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

further agree on the degree and intensity of implementation of Phase 2",
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it is concluded that ELPE approved the Study in question for this reason as well
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they both proceeded to pay the agreed price to the EMU
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEAM, as well as in phase 2 of the agreed program. And yes, without them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELPE sent the 06.9.2017 out-of-court statement of complaint to the EMU
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEAM, with which they terminated the private agreement from 19.4.2017 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stated that they do not accept the disputed Study for the reason that "it belongs to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

object of the work", the justification, however, that of the complaint is not found
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on the information brought to the Authority's attention.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B. in the present case, ELPE, as the data controller, requested the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ONE TEAM based on the private agreement of 19.4.2017, among others, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Mapping a list of different audiences (stakeholders)". For this purpose,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ONE TEAM proceeded to collect personal data, both "simple" and
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and sensitive2. For the collection of sensitive personal data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELPE, as the controller, owed, according to what is presented
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above in paragraph 1, to have received permission from the Authority, which neither
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

requested and by extension neither received. Regardless, the said
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing could not, however, find support in any of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal bases provided for in article 7 par. 2 of Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Besides, the fact that ONE TEAM invokes that it collected the disputed items
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data from publicly accessible sources, such as “websites, media
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
2 Now, "special categories of data" according to the GDPR.
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9
 

social networking sites, blogs, etc.” under no circumstances may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

make the processing in question legal, as the purpose of the original one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

posting-publicity of said information and data is another
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the purpose for which they were finally collected by ONE TEAM3.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 therefore, the processing carried out by EMU TEAM on behalf of ELPE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on the above-mentioned private agreement is contrary to the provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 7 of Law 2472/1997 and for this reason constitutes illegal processing.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C. Regarding the processing of "simple" personal data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contained in the Study, the existence of legality was not proven before the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

base in accordance with the provisions of article 5 par. 2 of Law 2472/1997, but neither
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ELPE's claims are based on some of those defined in this provision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal bases. ELPE claims that they requested the disputed Study without
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nominal data, because they had a superior legal interest according to article 5
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 2 e' of Law 2472/1997 and refer in particular to no. first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EI /2033/13.3.2018 Reminding them that "The preparation of a study is in progress
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the examination of public opinion and its disturbance by the liturgy of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refinery, with the aim of ELPE to determine and obtain the necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 credit and environmental measures, in consultation with the authorities and in function
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the ambitions of the "mapped" persons, in order to protect it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

district of Western Thessaloniki as a legal interest of ELPE. They have,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that is, the legal interest of ELPE to protect the environment and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

human health, in the context of compliance with relevant and social legislation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 their timely responsibility. [...] Anytime an inadvertent intervention was found
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the environment, ELPE took every necessary measure to restore it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of any unpleasant situation and the conflicting study". The claims, however, they do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

establish a legal interest of ELPE for the processing in question because
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refer to their obligations imposed by the applicable legislation,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regardless
 

of existing opinions and
 

 

 

 

any complaints
 

 

of
 

stakeholders and, therefore, the collection and use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their nominal elements has no relevance to the above described
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

intended purpose.
  

 

                                                           
3 For examples, see Authority decision 59/2016.
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10
 

therefore, the controversial collection of "simple" personal data is not legal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notwithstanding the provision of article 5 par. 2 item e' Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D. according to the opinion of Mr. K. Christodoulou, a member of the Authority, it should
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in addition, any violation due to the lack of a previous one should be examined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informing the subjects of the data in question.
 

 

 

 

 

 

E. The Authority has already judged4 that as a violation of personal data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

means the breach of security leading to accidental or unlawful destruction,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character transmitted, stored or otherwise submitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing in accordance with article 10 par. 3 of Law 2472/1997. From the letter and him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purpose of the provision of article 10 par. 3 of Law 2472/1997 it is clear that the obligation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that of the controller is both preventive and repressive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character. Preventive, so that the applicable measures prevent incidents
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

breach of personal data, repressive, so that any incident may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

can be detected and investigated.
  

 

 

 

 

 

The obligations arising from the above mentioned article 10 par. 3 of the law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997 regarding the security of the processing are borne by the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing. When the controller uses another person not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

depending on him, as in the present case, "the relevant assignment is made
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mandatory in writing". The data controller must also control the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

performed during processing5.
  

 

 

 

 in the present case, the leak in question constitutes a violation of privacy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data as stated above and proves the lack of sufficient and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate technical and organizational measures according to article 10 par. 3 of the Law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997. ELPE, as the controller, should have received the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appropriate organizational and technical measures for the security of the data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they were also processed to protect them from any infringement. Against
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the procedure for examining the case were not presented to the Authority sufficiently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, so that the manner of the leak in question can be ascertained. Moreover,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the entire case file and what the ELPE themselves supported
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
4 See indicative decision 98/2013. See and Opinion OE29 under no. 03/2014 on Personal Data Breach
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notification WP 213.
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

5 Now, the General Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in cases of violations imposes
 
 
the obligation to both the controller and the executor to receive immediately
 
measures (Article 33).
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11

during the hearing on 27.2.2018, it emerged that ELPE did not proceed with any
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

internal audit after the leak of the disputed Study, in order to check
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if the leak came from them, how the leak took place,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

coke. Furthermore, from the data provided by the processor ONE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEAM, including an opinion from a special expert regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the leak, they did not make it possible to investigate the breach.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

According to the above, the above incident of violation is the responsibility of ELPE, which,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as a controller, they should have ensured a level of security
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

proportionate to the risks entailed by the processing in question and the nature
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data.
  

 

F. Following the above, the Authority, after taking into account its seriousness
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

infringement and the general facts of the case, unanimously decides that it should
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be imposed on the data controller, based on article 21 par. 1 item b' N.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997, the sanctions referred to in the operative part of this on the one hand for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

illegal processing in accordance with articles 5 and 7 of Law 2472/1997 and on the other hand for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

failure to take appropriate organizational and technical security measures
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with the provisions of article 10 of Law 2472/1997, which led to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data breach incident.
 

 

 

 

 

 

The beginning
  

 

For those reasons
 

 

 

 

A) It imposes a fine of 20,000 euros on ELPE, as data controller,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for illegal processing according to articles 4, 5 and 7 of Law 2472/1997.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B) Imposes a fine of 10,000 euros on ELPE, as controller,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for failure to take appropriate organizational and technical security measures,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in accordance with the provisions of article 10 of Law 2472/1997, which led to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data breach incident.
 

 

 

 

     

                         
                              

The president
  

 

 

 

 

         

The Secretary
 

 

      

                 

 

Konstantinos Menudakos

 

                     

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

12
 

