1/4

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00154/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00154/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, before C.C.C. (JMA FILM DISTRIBUTIONS,
S.L) (hereinafter, "the person claimed"), by virtue of a complaint filed by
A.A.A. and B.B.B. (hereinafter, "the claimants") and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 10/15/18, you had entry to this Agency in writing, submitted by
the claimants, in which it states, among other things, the following: “On 03/03/18 the signatories
of this document were the subject of a civil lawsuit by the person who in this
writing appears as an infringer of data protection regulations. is provided the
document 1 as proof of the notification of the Decree of April 26, 2018 by the
that the lawsuit filed by Cinematographic Distributions is admitted for processing
IMA, SL., and by which it is transferred. In exercise of the right of
defense, we proceeded to answer the lawsuit on 05/31/18. It is provided as
document 2 the submitted Answer.

After becoming aware of said reply, the respondent has proceeded to the
complete communication of the Answer (along with the documentation that serves as
support), to some of his former clients and now ours.

The communication of the response to the demand to the recipients of the emails has
course the disclosure of various information containing personal data
of the defendants and third parties that are mentioned in the answer itself. A) Yes,
It contains names, addresses, emails, ID numbers, etc.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD). A) Yes,
dated 11/30/18 and 02/08/19, an information request is addressed to the respondent.

THIRD: On 03/15/19, the respondent sends to this Agency, among others, the
following information: "The request is made by the AEPD without specifying
 C.C.C.
clearly to whom it is done. Thus it is forwarded to:
(DISTRIBUCIONES CINEMATOGRAFICAS JMA, S.L.); ***ADDRESS.1 what we
suggests that it has been sent to DISTRIBUCIONES CINEMATOGRAFICAS JMA,
in the person of his legal representative. However, the complaint filed indicates,
under the heading "DATA OF THE ALLEGED RESPONSIBLE" which is C.C.C.
This lack of definition in the person to whom the AEPD request is addressed is
cause of defenselessness as it is contrary to the principle of consistency.

Therefore, before answering this request by the AEPD
It should be made clear who should answer it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/4

For the sole purpose of complying in time with the response to the request, and
considering that the complaint is filed with C.C.C. as a natural person
We want to point out that the alleged infraction committed is not protected by the LOPD,
this is established in its article 2. Clearly the performance of C.C.C., is outside the
scope of application of the LOPD since there has been no data processing
of the complainants, nor the support used is susceptible to such treatment. I know
may discuss whether the action may be ethically or criminally subject to disapproval,
but the truth is that it does not fit into the scope of application of the LOPD, since it does not
We are dealing with a personal data file.

It is true, as stated in the complaint, that the claimant and DISTRIBUTIONS
CINEMATOGRAFICAS JMA, S.L. have a legal dispute over the
misappropriation of a computer program owned by it, and that is processed
before the Court of First Instance number seven of Bilbao, and that currently
Judgment is pending, but it is categorically false that C.C.C. is
sought to harm the complainant.

We cannot understand that affirmation made to the contrary before the AEPD that
a document, such as the answer to the claim, prepared by the
whistleblower, may be detrimental to the whistleblower. This complaint. it seems like a
misplaced response to the legitimate aspiration of DISTRIBUTIONS
CINEMATOGRAFICAS JMA, S.L. to be compensated for the misappropriation of a
computer program of its exclusive property. What is truly true is that the
reported fact is limited to the communication made by the respondent to 8 people
of the situation in which your claim is against the complainant. Yes
examine in detail who these people are, it becomes even clearer that
this complaint should not prosper, since contrary to what the complainant affirms,
the document has not been sent to "former clients of yours and today ours", but to
people who maintain a family relationship, employment relationship or a relationship of
friendship, which in some cases or have no relationship with the business of the
cinematographic distribution and in others they are the product of the more than thirty years that
worked in this sector.

FOURTH: On 05/17/19, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person claimed, for alleged
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD with a sanction of warning, and granting
a hearing period of ten business days to formulate the allegations and
Submit whatever evidence you deem appropriate.

FIFTH: According to a certificate issued by the Post Office, it is confirmed that the
letter of initiation of disciplinary proceedings was notified to the person claimed on
05/20/19.

SIXTH: The respondent has not submitted to this Agency any documentation or
information, within the period of allegations, granted for this purpose.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/4

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim for sending data from
personal character of third parties, by email, to 8 different people, among
children, friends and employees of the company of the claimed person

II

Current regulations indicate that personal data will be treated in such a way
that your safety is guaranteed, including protection against unauthorized processing
authorized or unlawful and against loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the
application of appropriate technical or organizational measures. Furthermore, those responsible
and those in charge of data processing, as well as all the people who intervene
in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of confidentiality

The "facts" described above may imply a violation of art. 5.1.f)
RGPD, since the claimed person sent personal data of the claimants to
third parties without their consent.

III

Article 83.5) of the RGPD provides that: “Infringements of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
EUR 20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount: a) the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

However, when motivating the sanction, it has been taken into account that it is a
particular, which justifies that the initial proposal was a warning, in application
of what is stipulated in art. 58.2.b) and in recital 148 of the aforementioned RGPD.

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data,

HE REMEMBERS:

NOTICE: to C.C.C. (DISTRIBUCIONES CINEMATOGRÁFICAS JMA, S.L), for the
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to article 5 of the LOPDGDD;
typified in art. 83.5 section a) of the RGPD and qualified as very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, in art. 72.1.i) of the LOPDGDD

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/4

  

C.C.C.

 

(DISTRIBUTIONS

NOTIFY:
CINEMATOGRAFICAS JMA, S.L)

  the

  this Agreement to

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

