
The Personal Data Protection Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, organizes a series of free workshops "How to harmonize business with the General Data Protection Regulation" to support micro, small and medium enterprises in aligning business processes with the General Regulation. The cooperation was formalized by an agreement signed by the director of AZOP Zdravko Vukić and the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Luka Burilović.
"We believe that this campaign, which we will conduct together, will make it easier for members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to understand data protection regulations and adjust their operations to the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. In this way, small and medium-sized enterprises will have the opportunity to acquire the necessary knowledge and avoid situations in which they may find themselves in the role of violators of the Regulation due to lack of information, and thus bear appropriate sanctions, such as administrative fines and other corrective measures. One of the most important tasks of the Agency, as the national supervisory body responsible for monitoring the implementation of the General Regulation on Data Protection in the Republic of Croatia, is to promote awareness and understanding of all stakeholders on rules, risks, safeguards and rights. Investing in compliance with the General Regulation and investing in information security are by no means unnecessary costs, but rather investments that will pay off many times and improve their business, "said the director of the Personal Data Protection Agency Zdravko Vukic when signing the agreement.
"As part of the workshops, participants will learn how to most easily reconcile business with the GDPR and what are all the obligations regarding the collection and processing of personal data. The workshops are intended for small and medium entrepreneurs, and they are free for all members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, "said the President of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce Luka Burilović. He added that the General Data Protection Regulation is an obligation for all companies operating in the European Union, but that the implementation of the Regulation does not have to be an administrative burden, but an opportunity for more orderly and efficient operations.
By the way, the workshops are conducted within the EU project ARC (Awareness Raising Campaign for Small and Medium Enterprises), and all interested micro, small and medium entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to participate. The ARC project is co-financed by the European Union's Rights, Equality and Citizenship Program and coordinated by the Data Protection Agency, in partnership with the Data Protection Commission, the Irish Data Protection Supervisor and the University of Brussels.
The Agency invites micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to fill out a survey available at:
https://vub.fra1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_etyCPkI1C1dtfZr
The purpose of this research is to gain insight into the challenges faced by SMEs in complying with the General Data Protection Regulation in their business and a clearer understanding of their needs. Based on the results of the research, the ARC project partners will develop guidelines and various educational materials tailored to the specific needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
