

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Processing of personal data in the provision of online services (ePortal) (UOOU-03601/20)
Prague Social Security Administration


The inspection of the Prague Social Security Administration (PSSZ) was launched on the basis of the Office's control plan for 2020, focused on compliance with the obligations set out in the general regulation in connection with the processing of personal data of PSSZ clients, including their processing during the provision of online services through the ePortal, operated by the Czech Social Security Administration security (ČSSZ). District social security administrations (OSSZ) are territorial organizational units of the CSSZ, which participate in defined areas in the implementation of social insurance within the scope of their competence. of the capital city of Prague. The PSSZ also carries out its activities in the territory of the capital city of Prague through territorial workplaces. The ČSSZ is a social security authority, whose powers are regulated primarily by Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organization and implementation of social security, and other legal regulations (Act No. 155 /1995 Coll., on pension insurance, Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on social security premiums and contribution to state employment policy), which entrust the CSSZ with competence and establish requirements for the performance of the state administration, which he is supposed to perform. Pursuant to § 6 paragraph 2 of Act No. 582/1991 Coll. performs the functions of OSSZ in the territory of the capital city of Prague, PSSZ and fulfills the tasks stipulated in the mentioned laws. PSSZ is a territorial organizational unit of the CSSS. In addition to the tasks imposed in §§ 6 – 10b) of Act No. 582/1991 Coll. the PSSZ performs other entrusted tasks in the territory of the capital city of Prague. As an employer, the PSSZ also processes the personal data of its employees, including job applicants in accordance with Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on the civil service, and Act No. 262/2006 Coll., the Code work. According to the mentioned legal regulations, the PSSZ as administrator processes personal data, including special categories of personal data of clients, in the following scope: identification, address data, contact data, data for the execution of health insurance, pension insurance, medical assessment services, data on the collection of insurance premiums, data registered on the basis of the requirements of the law of the European Communities and in accordance with international treaties on social security, property and financial data, health status and criminal matters. With this control, the inspectors did not assess the position of PSSZ as a processor in relation to Article 4 point 8 of the general regulation. PSSZ fulfills in the processing of personal data, the obligation set forth in Article 6 paragraph 1 letter b), c), e) and f) of the general regulation, their processing is based on the legal authorization regulated by special legal regulations. The inspection found that the PSSZ also fulfills the information obligation towards its clients according to the provisions of Article 12 of the general regulation to the extent of information according to Article 13 and 14 of the general regulation, has set procedures for exercising clients' rights according to articles 15-23 of the general regulation. As part of the security of personal data processed by the PSSZ, appropriate measures were introduced and adopted to ensure a level of security corresponding to the given risk. Based on the inspection findings, the inspectors stated that the obligations under Article 25 and Article 32 of the General Regulation were fulfilled, and no violations were found.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Healthcare > Processing of personal data during the provision of online services (ePortal) (UOOU -03601/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



