Opinion 31/2020 on the  draft  decision  of  the  competent
supervisory authority of Poland regarding the approval of the
requirements  for accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR

Adopted on 07 December 2020

Adopted

1

Table of contents

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS................................................................................................................ 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4
Analysis of the PL SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies
.................................................................................................................................................5
GENERAL REMARKS......................................................................................................... 5
INDEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................... 6
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 8
EXPERTISE........................................................................................................................ 8
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 9
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING.......................................................................... 9
COMMUNICATION WITH THE PL SA................................................................................ 9
REVIEW MECHANISMS .................................................................................................. 10
LEGAL STATUS ............................................................................................................... 10
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS......................................................................................... 11
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................. 11

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply
during the accreditation of a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the
competent SAs to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section 12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written
guidance explaining the accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach.

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result,
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR.

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term “accreditation”. However,
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body.
There  are  a  number  of  requirements, which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

Adopted

3

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2)
GDPR to obtain accreditation.

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should
take  into  consideration  the code’s sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of
conduct and their monitoring bodies.

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each
code.

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair,
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject
matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

The Polish Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “PL SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness
of the file was taken on 9 October 2020.

ASSESSMENT

General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted draft  accreditation
requirements

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2)
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly
to ensure consistency.

Adopted

4

4.

5.

6.

7.

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and
medium  sized  enterprises.” (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore, the  Board  recognises  that  the
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk.

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.

When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the
PL SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the PL SA, which are outside the scope of article
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.

Analysis of the PL SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s
monitoring bodies

8.

Taking into account that:

a. Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct.

the Board is of the opinion that:

GENERAL REMARKS

9.

The  Board  would  like  to  underline  that  the  obligation  of  the  monitoring  body  to  demonstrate
compliance  with  the  accreditation  requirements  is  not  limited  to  the  moment  it  applies  for
accreditation, but it is an ongoing obligation. In other words, the monitoring body should be able to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements at all times.

10. With regard to § 1, section 6.3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that
the reference to the periodic review does not mention that the SA will review the compliance with the
requirements periodically. Thus, the Board encourages the PL SA to clarify that the requirements may
be reviewed periodically and to provide transparent information on how the periodic review will work
in practice and what happens after the expiry of the validity of the accreditation.

11.

The Board notes that the requirements include a section on definitions. In this respect, the Board
encourages the PL SA to use consistency wording when referring to monitoring body personnel, in

Adopted

5

12.

order to avoid confusion. Thus, references to “staff” should be avoided and the correct term should
be used when referring to the monitoring body personnel. The Board encourages the PL SA to make
the necessary changes (e.g. in sections 2.2, 2.6 under § 3) in order to refer to the monitoring body
personnel in a consistent manner.

In  addition,  the  Board  encourages  the  PL  SA  to  revise  the  requirements  in  order  to  avoid
misunderstandings  stemming  from  the  translation  of  the  document  into  English  (for  example,
“accreditation criteria”  should be replaced by “accreditation requirements”; section 4.1.3.3 under § 3
should refer to audit of the member/candidate, instead or “from”; last sentence of section 5.11 under
§ 3 should read “for example by asking him to confirm it”, instead of “to do so”; the reference under
section 5.12 under § 3 to “an amicable settlement procedure established by it” should be replaced by
“[...] established by the monitoring body”; the reference to the monitoring body’s “seat” in section 8.1
under § 3 should be replaced by “establishment” and the reference to the “sharing of responsibility”
in section 8.3 under § 3  should be replaced by “bearing of responsibility”, as the Board understands it
is a translation mistake).

INDEPENDENCE

13. With regard to the specific requirements for accreditation of the monitoring body (under § 3 of the PL
SA’s draft accreditation requirements), the Board considers that the requirements to demonstrate the
independence  of  the  monitoring  body  (section  1 under §  3) would  benefit  from  the  inclusion  of
examples with regard to the four areas where independence has to be demonstrated. For example,
organisational independence can be demonstrated with a differentiated payroll, analytical accounting
systems with different responsibility centres or any other logical separation that can rise firewalls
between the monitoring body and the code owners or code members. As for financial independence,
the  monitoring  body would  not  be  considered  financially independent  if  the  rules  governing  its
financial support allow a code member, who is under investigation by the monitoring body, to stop its
financial contributions to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body. The Board
encourages the PL SA to provide examples of how the monitoring body can provide such evidence

14. With  respect  to  definition  of  independence,  the  Board  encourages  the  PL  SA  to  elaborate  what
independence means. To ensure consistency such clarification could rely on the wording agreed by the
Board in the previous opinions. According to the Board, independence for a monitoring body should
be understood as a series of formal rules and procedures for the appointment, terms of reference and
operation of the monitoring body. In Board’s view these rules and procedures will allow the monitoring
body to perform the monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without
being  directly  or  indirectly  influenced,  nor  subject to  any  form  of  pressure  that  might  affect  its
decisions. This means that a monitoring body should not be in a position to receive any instructions
regarding the exercise of its task from code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the
code applies, or from the code owner itself.

15.

The Board observes that the draft accreditation requirements do not make an explicit reference to
“accountability”  as  one  of  the  four  areas  in  which  the  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate
independence.  The  Board  considers  that  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body  shall  be
demonstrated in four areas: 1) Legal and decision making procedures, 2) financial, 3) organisational

Adopted

6

and  4)  accountability.2 Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  PL  SA  to  include  the  explicit
obligation to demonstrate independence in relation to the accountability of the monitoring body.

16. With regard to the first paragraph of section 1 under § 3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements
(“Independence”), the Board considers that the impartiality of the monitoring body from the code
members, the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies should be further specified,
particularly with regard to any legal and economic links that may exist between the monitoring body
and the code owner or code members. In addition, the impartiality must be demonstrated also in
relation to the profession or sector. For this reason, the Board encourages the PL SA to amend this
paragraph  accordingly. In  addition,  the  Board  considers  that  other  references to  the  industry  (for
example, in sections 3 and 7 under § 3), should be completed in the same line, in order to avoid
confusion.

17. With regard to internal monitoring bodies, subsection 1.1.2 under § 3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation
requirements refer to the independence of the internal monitoring body in relation to the code owner.
The Board recognised the importance of ensuring the impartiality of internal monitoring bodies from
the code owner. However, the independence shall also be ensured with regard to code members. Thus,
the Board recommends the PL SA to include a reference to the code members as well.

18. With  regard  to  section  1.2 under §  3,  the  Board  considers  that the  requirements  concerning  the
financial  independence  should  address  the  boundary conditions  that  determine  the  concrete
requirements for financial independence and sufficient resources. These include the number, size and
complexity of the code members (as monitored entities), the nature and scope of their activities (which
are the subject of the code) and the risk(s) associated with the processing operation(s).Therefore, the
Board encourages the PL SA to redraft the requirements accordingly.

19. With regard to the example given on subsection 1.2.1 under § 3 as to the source of funding, the Board
underlines  that  in  any  case,  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body  cannot  be  in  any  way
compromised.  For  instance,  the  monitoring  body  would  not  be  considered  to  be  financially
independent  if  the  rules  governing  its  financial  support  allow  a  code  member,  who  is  under
investigation  by  the  monitoring  body,  to  stop  its  financial  contributions  to  it,  in  order  to  avoid  a
potential sanction from the monitoring body. The Board encourages the PL SA to add such clarification
and examples. In addition, the Board notes that subsection 1.2.1 under § 3 refers to the fees and
contributions paid by the code members’ candidates. The Board encourages the PL SA to clarify the
reference to the code members’ candidates.

20. With regard to subsection 1.2.3 under § 3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board
understands that it refers to the long-term financial stability of the monitoring body. However, the
Board considers it could be better clarified, to ensure that the monitoring body has procedures in place
to ensure its long-term financial stability and that the loss of one or more funding sources does not
affect independence. Therefore, the Board encourages the PL SA to include such clarification.

21. With regard to the organisational independence (section 1.3 and in particular, subsection 1.3.2 under
§  3),  the  Board  encourages  the  PL  SA  to clarify  that  “material  resources”  also  include technical
resources.

2 The EDPB developed these areas in more detail in the Opinion 9/2019 on the Austrian SA draft accreditation
requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR

Adopted

7

22.

Regarding subsection 1.3.4 under § 3, the Board notes that the allocation of resources will depend,
inter alia, on the “number of code members”. Since the number of code members may not be known
at the moment the monitoring body applies for accreditation, the Board encourages the PL SA to refer
to the expected number and size of the code members.

23. With regard to subsection 1.3.6 under § 3, the Board notes that the obligation of the monitoring body
to demonstrate independence is only “during the decision-making process”. The Board considers that
the  independence  of  the monitoring  body  is  an  ongoing  process  and  must  be  ensured  and
demonstrated  at  any  time,  not  only  during  the  decision-making  process. In  addition,  the Board
underlines that, in order to demonstrate organisational independence, the monitoring body personnel
shall be able to act independently from the code owner and the code members and without being
subject to  any  pressure or  influence. Finally, the  Board welcomes  the  inclusion  of  the  example  in
subsection 1.3.6 under § 3. However, in order to avoid confusion, the example should clearly indicate
that  it  is  related  to  the  selection  procedure  and  that  the  independence  of  the  monitoring  body
personnel is not limited to the selection procedure, as reflected in the examples provided in par. 13 of
this Opinion. Therefore, the Board recommends the PL SA to amend the draft requirements in order
to reflect the abovementioned changes.

24.

25.

26.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

As a general remark in this section, the Board is of the opinion that, for practical reasons, examples of
cases where a conflict of interest could arise might be helpful. An example of a conflict of interest
situation would be the case where personnel conducting audits or making decisions on behalf of a
monitoring body had previously worked for the code owner, or for any of the organisations adhering
to the code. Therefore, the Board encourages the PL SA to add some examples, similar to the one
provided in this paragraph.

Furthermore, the Board observes that the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements do not explicitly
include the obligation of the monitoring body to refrain from any action that is incompatible with its
tasks and duties and to not seek nor take instructions from any person, organisation or association
(paragraph 68, page 23 of the Guidelines).Therefore, the Board recommends the PL SA to align the text
with the Guidelines by including the above-mentioned obligations.

EXPERTISE

Regarding the accreditation requirement in terms of the expertise of the monitoring body (section 3
of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements), the Board acknowledges that the guidelines set a high
bar  requiring  monitoring  bodies  to  have  an in-depth understanding  of  data  protection  issues.  In
addition, the guidelines also require an expert knowledge of the specific processing activities which
are the subject matter of the code. The Board acknowledges that section 3.3 under § 3 of the PL SA’s
draft accreditation requirements address the level of expertise and encourages the PL SA to amend it
in order to align the requirements with the guidelines.

27. With regard to section 3.1 under § 3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes
that  the  requirement  implies  that  specific  expertise  requirements  will  be  laid  down  in  the  Code.
Whereas the Board welcomes the drafting of codes that include specific expertise requirements, it is
also aware that it may not always be the case. Thus, in order to reflect that, the Board encourages the
PL SA to replace “will” by “may”.

Adopted

8

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES

28. With regard to subsection 4.1.3.2 under § 3, the Board notes that the audit methodology will take into
account the “number of code members”. Since the number of code members may not be known at
the moment the monitoring body applies for accreditation, the Board encourages the PL SA to refer to
the expected number and size of the code members and the complaints received.

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING

29.

Regarding subsection  5.4.3 under §  3 of  the PL SA’s  draft accreditation  requirements,  the  Board
acknowledges that the complaints handling procedure shall include, at least, “time limits for dealing
with the complaint”. The Board is of the opinion that further clarification is needed with regard to the
time  limits for dealing  with complaints.  In this  regard,  the  procedure  should envisage  that  the
monitoring body has to inform the complainant with progress reports or the outcome of the complaint,
within a reasonable time frame (e.g. 3 months). This period could be extended when necessary, taking
into account the size of the organisation under investigation, as well as the size of the investigation.
Therefore, the Board recommends that the PL SA redraft the requirement accordingly.

30. With  regard  to  section  5.7 under §  3 of  the  PL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board
encourages the PL SA to redraft it as an actual requirements (i.e. starting with “the monitoring body
shall...”).

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

Section 5.8 under § 3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements establishes the obligation of the
monitoring body to inform the SA “of the actions taken in respect of complaints submitted”. The Board
notes  that  the  information  obligation  is  also  towards  the  code  member,  the  code  owner  and  all
concerned SAs, as stated in the Guidelines (par. 77). Therefore, the Board recommends that the PL SA
amend the requirement accordingly.

COMMUNICATION WITH THE PL SA

Section 6.1 under § 3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements establishes the obligation of the
monitoring body to submit an annual report to the SA on all its activities in relation to the Code of
Conduct.  The  following  sections  also  develop  situations  in  which  the  monitoring  body  will
communicate with the PL SA. In addition, subsection 4.1.3.8 establishes regular reporting obligations
of the monitoring body. The Board considers that the information on the functioning of the monitoring
body activities (for example, actions taken by the MB) should also be available to the PL SA on its
request, and encourages the PL SA to include such reference.

In addition, the Board encourages the PL SA to make the link between subsection 6.2.6 under § 3 and
subsection 6.2.8 under § 3 clearer, in order to avoid misunderstandings with regard to the type of
audits.

Regarding section 6.3 under § 3, the Board notes that the example given would only be relevant in
case  the  code  of  conduct  covers  the  obligations  under  article  33  GDPR.  Therefore,  the  Board
encourages the PL SA to clarify this in the example.

Regarding  section  6.5 under §  3,  the  Board  notes  that  the  accreditation  requirements  state  that
significant changes “may result in a review of the accreditation”. The Board is of the opinion that, when
a substantial change has been performed, the review of the accreditation is not merely a possibility,
but rather an obligation. Therefore, the Board recommends the PL SA to rephrase the wording, by
stating that substantial changes would result in a review of the accreditation.

Adopted

9

REVIEW MECHANISMS

36.

Section 7.1 under § 3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation requirements establishes the obligation of the
monitoring body to provide a procedure to assist with the periodic review of the code of conduct. The
Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  monitoring  body also  has a  key  role in  applying  code  updates
(amendments of extensions of the code) following the instructions of the code owner, and encourages
the PL SA to include such reference. In addition, the Board considers that the reference to section 4.1.3
under § 3 should be replaced by 4.1.4 under § 3 and that a reference to section 6.2.5 under § 3 would
be helpful, as an example of the elements to be considered, and encourages the PL SA to amend the
draft accordingly.

37. With regard to section 7.5 under § 3, the Board notes the reporting is only to the code owner. The
Board  encourages  accreditation  requirements  which  require  a  monitoring  body  to  develop
mechanisms that enable feedback to the code owners and to any other entity referred to in the code
of conduct. Therefore, the Board encourages the PL SA to include the abovementioned reference in
the draft requirements.

38.

In addition, the Board considers that the information related to the review carried out should be at
the disposal of the SA, and encourages the PL SA to amend the draft accordingly.

LEGAL STATUS

39. With regard to section 8.3 under § 3, the Board underlines that the monitoring body should have
financial and other resources, and the necessary procedures to ensure the monitoring body activity.
Thereby, the Board encourages that the PL SA specify that the monitoring body shall have adequate
financial and other resources and the necessary procedures to ensure its functioning.

40. Moreover,  the  code  of  conduct  itself  will  need  to  demonstrate  that  the  operation  of  the  code’s
monitoring mechanism is sustainable over time, covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring
body being unable to perform the monitoring function. In this regard, it would be advisable to require
that a monitoring body demonstrates that it can deliver the code of conduct’s monitoring mechanism
over  a  suitable  period  of  time.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends PL SA  to  explicitly  require  that
monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over time.

41.

42.

The Board observes that, according to subsection 8.7.1 under § 3 of the PL SA’s draft accreditation
requirements, when using sub-contractors for processes relating to monitoring actions, evidence for
demonstrating the compliance of the subcontractor with the requirements may include “a contract
setting out the responsibilities and responsibilities of the parties, confidentiality, the categories of
personal  data  processed  and  the  obligation  to  provide  adequate  security  for  them”.  The  Board
encourages the PL SA to redraft the text in order to include requirements relating to the termination
of those contracts, in particular so as to ensure that the subcontractors fulfil their data protection
obligations.

The Board notes that section 8.9 under § 3 states that “the use of subcontracting does not exempt the
monitoring body from the responsibility of the monitoring body under the GDPR”. The Board is of the
opinion  that,  even  when  subcontractors  are  used,  the  monitoring  body  shall  ensure  effective
monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity. Although the Board realises that section
8.9 under § 3 seems to imply that, the Board recommends the PL SA to explicitly clarify it. In addition,
the  monitoring  body  should be  the  ultimate  responsible  for  all  the  decisions  taken  related  to  its
monitoring function. Therefore, the Board encourages the PL SA to specify that, notwithstanding the

Adopted

10

sub-contractor’s responsibility and obligations, the monitoring body is always the ultimate responsible
for the decision-making and for compliance.

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

43.

The draft accreditation requirements of the Polish Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made:

44.

Regarding independence the Board recommends that the PL SA:

1.

2.

include the explicit obligation to demonstrate independence in relation to the accountability of
the monitoring body.
include a reference to code members with regard to the independence of internal monitoring
bodies in subsection 1.1.2 under § 3.

3. amend subsection 1.3.6 under § 3 in order to reflect the remarks made in paragraph 23 of this

Opinion

45.

Regarding conflict of interest the Board recommends that the PL SA:

1. explicitly  include  the  obligation  of  the  monitoring  body  to  refrain  from  any  action  that  is
incompatible with its tasks and duties and to not seek nor take instructions from any person,
organisation or association

46.

Regarding transparent complaint handling the Board recommends that the PL SA:

1.

2.

redraft subsection 5.4.3 under § 3 in order to take into account that the monitoring body has to
inform  the  complainant  with  progress  reports  or  the  outcome  of  the  complaint, within  a
reasonable time frame (e.g. 3 months). This period could be extended when necessary.
include, among the addressees of the information referred to in section 5.8 under § 3, the code
member, the code owner and all concerned SAs.

47.

Regarding communication with the PL SA the Board recommends that the PL SA:

1.

rephrase the wording in section 6.5 under § 3, by stating that substantial changes would result
in a review of the accreditation.

48.

Regarding legal status the Board recommends that the PL SA:

1. amend  the  requirements  in  order  to explicitly require  that  monitoring  bodies  demonstrate

2.

continuity of the monitoring function over time.
clarify, section 8.9 under § 3, that even when subcontractors are used, the monitoring body shall
ensure effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity

FINAL REMARKS

49.

This opinion is addressed to the Polish supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to Article
64 (5) (b) GDPR.

Adopted

11

50.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the PL SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision.
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.

51.

The PL SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

12

