

Bonn/Berlin, November 11, 2020


Press release 28/2020


BfDI on the verdict in the proceedings against 1&1
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, sees himself confirmed by the decision of the Bonn Regional Court: The Bonn Regional Court ruled today that 1&1 is liable for its violation. This shows that data protection violations do not remain without consequences.

For the BfDI, this is the first major court case since the GDPR came into force. Important and fundamental questions were clarified. The court followed the opinion of the BfDI in essential points: 1&1 Telecom GmbH committed a data protection violation due to insufficient security measures in the call center. As a company, you have to be liable according to the standards of the GDPR: I am convinced that this decision will be noticed in the executive floors of companies. I'm still waiting for the written reasons for the verdict, but one thing is already clear: no company can afford to neglect data protection anymore.
The BfDI fined the telecommunications service provider 1&1 Telecom GmbH in December 2019. Due to an insufficient authentication process in the telephone customer service of 1&1 Telecom GmbH, callers could receive extensive information about other personal data of a customer simply by providing the name and date of birth. The BfDI saw this as a violation of the General Data Protection Regulation.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











