25.05.2023
25 May 2023 – ANSPDCP activity

On the occasion of the celebration of five years since the application of the General Regulation on Data Protection, on May 25, 2023, we present a summary of the most significant aspects of the activity of the National Supervisory Authority carried out during the first four months of 2023.
Thus, between January and April, the National Supervisory Authority received 1,565 complaints, notifications and notifications regarding security incidents, on the basis of which 199 investigations were opened. As a result of the investigations carried out during this period, 36 fines were imposed in the total amount of 353,865 lei (the equivalent of 71,900 euros).
Also, in the control activity, 40 warnings were applied and 39 corrective measures were ordered.
As for the complaint resolution activity, the National Supervisory Authority received in the first four months of the current year 1385 complaints, based on which 81 investigations were started.
In the same period, data operators submitted 66 notifications of data security breaches and 114 notifications of possible non-compliance with GDPR provisions. As a result of these, 118 ex officio investigations were started.
The complaints, reports and notifications regarding security incidents received by the National Supervisory Authority during this period mainly concerned the following aspects:
- disclosure of personal data to third parties or on the Internet;
- the use of video surveillance means at the workplace or at the level of owners' associations;
- failure to respect the rights of the persons concerned;
- non-compliance with the information conditions of the persons concerned;
- receiving unsolicited commercial messages by means of electronic communications;
- computer/cyber attacks;
- disclosure of minors' data;
- violation of data processing principles. At the same time, in the first 4 months of this year, a number of 336 requests were addressed to our institution to issue points of view on various aspects related to the way of interpretation and application of the GDPR and other incidental regulations , by operators and their proxies, from the public and private domain, by other entities, as well as by natural persons.
In the same period, the National Supervisory Authority issued opinions on 35 draft normative acts submitted by public institutions, which involved the analysis of complex aspects regarding the processing of personal data.
Regarding the activity of representation in court, in the first four months of 2023, a number of 17 new requests for summons were registered.
Of these, 12 subpoena requests were received, the object of which is to contest the processes - minutes of findings/sanctions concluded by the representatives of the National Supervisory Authority. More information on this aspect can be found in the press release dated 02.05.2023 (https://www.dataprotection.ro/?page=Comunicat_Presa_02_05_2023&lang=ro).
At the same time, during this period, information actions aimed at popularizing personal data protection rules continued.
Thus, on the occasion of the celebration of the European Day of Data Protection, an online Conference was organized with the theme "The effectiveness of GDPR application in an interconnected world". Also, the informative brochure dedicated to this annual event was posted on the institution's website, which contains relevant elements from the activity of the National Supervisory Authority, in Romanian and English.
On this occasion, in order to increase the level of awareness among certain categories of targeted persons, the National Supervisory Authority initiated a collaboration with the Ministry of Education and the National Authority for the Protection of Children's Rights and Adoption, intended to jointly carry out actions to inform minors and teaching staff regarding the rules for the use of personal data and related risks. Thus, informative materials produced by the National Supervisory Authority were sent to the county directorates for child protection and were made public on their websites.
Also, at the proposal of our institution, the informative clip dedicated to the promotion of the General Data Protection Regulation was broadcast on the national television station TVR and in the means of public transport of the Bucharest Transport Society.
In the same period, the National Supervisory Authority continued informing the general public by publishing 24 press releases and information from the special section dedicated to Regulation (EU) 679/2016.
During the first four months of 2023, our institution actively participated in several institutional meetings related to data protection, organized by various public institutions or private entities.
On the other hand, public and private sector operators continued to declare data protection officers, between January and April registering a number of 735 officers with the National Supervisory Authority.
In the first four months of 2023, our institution analyzed 4 requests for approval of BCRs submitted by multinational companies. Also, the National Supervisory Authority acted, at the request of some companies to approve BCRs, as a co-auditor, as well as as a member of the drafting team of the opinion of the European Data Protection Board regarding a set of rules corporatist.
At the same time, our institution acted as the main rapporteur regarding the draft decision of the competent authority in Latvia regarding the approval of the requirements for the accreditation of a code of conduct monitoring body under art. 41 of the GDPR and as co-rapporteur to the draft decision of the competent authority in Croatia regarding the approval of the requirements for the accreditation of a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to art. 41 of the GDPR.
Legal and communication department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.