

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities Department of Asylum and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior - security of personal data processed as part of administrative proceedings



On the basis of the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection of compliance with the obligations stipulated by Act No. 101/2000 Coll. with a focus on the security of personal data processed within the framework of administrative procedures led by the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior.

The office found that the employee of the controlled person took a copy of his identity card and a copy of his permanent residence permit card during the interview of the witness, which she filed together with the witness statement protocol in the files kept in the matter of the procedure for issuing an employee card. In two cases, when the participants in the proceedings were informed of the contents of the files, these copies (and therefore the personal data of the witness) were made available to the participants in the proceedings.

At the same time, the Office found that the controlled person adopted and implemented sufficient technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of processed personal data. The incident in question was therefore not caused by the absence or inadequacy of measures on the part of the inspected person, but by the misconduct of an employee of the inspected person. The Office therefore found a violation of § 14 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (processing under the conditions and to the extent set by the controller or processor), which, however, is not an offence. Such employee misconduct must therefore be dealt with within the scope of the employment relationship.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector JUDr. Jiřina Rippelová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Sitemap > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Department of Asylum and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior - security of personal data processed in within the framework of administrative proceedingsView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



