 

Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

Ansbach, February 18, 2019

 

press release

 

Data Tuesday starts with:

Data protection by design and by default

 
 

 

The Museum for Communication in Nuremberg, the professional association of data

Commissioned by Deutschlands e.V. (BvD) and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision

(BayLDA) are again offering the lectures in the Museum for Communication this year

series "Data Tuesday". The start will be on Tuesday, February 19, 2019 at 7 p.m

Watch Matthias Cellarius, the data protection officer of SAP SE, give a lecture on

"Data protection by design and by default", i.e. the obligation of all companies,

Keep thinking about data protection from the start. He will also use SAP itself

set ethical boundaries, which mean that not all products

be released for use everywhere.

Since 2015, the Museum for Communication in Nuremberg, the professional association of data protection

commissioned Deutschlands e.V. (BvD) and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) to

"Data Tuesday" series. Once a month there is a lecture that essentially deals with questions of data protection

and data security, but always a bit beyond that, the social relevance of the

topics in mind. These lectures are designed for the general public and not (only) for a specialist audience.

In the subsequent discussion, the speakers are still available for a discussion

Disposal.

 

The series of data Tuesdays in 2019 is now starting with a lecture that is not so easy to understand at first glance.

real title: “Data protection by design and by default”. This in the General Data Protection Regulation

(DS-GVO) principle means that everyone who develops products, projects, software or similar, right from the start

i.e. in the design phase, I need to think about data protection and always have to ask myself the question

personal data to the extent planned, so that my product, my project or my software

function. The second part of this principle concerns the default settings. The GDPR obliges here

all product manufacturers, that the basic setting of the products or software that go on sale, always

include the most privacy-friendly preset. What that means in concrete terms is explained by Matthias Cellarius, who

data protection officer of SAP SE, the participants in an easily understandable language

explain.

 

Furthermore, Matthias Cellarius will also deal with a very exciting topic, namely the ethical limits,

which SAP has set itself in order to ensure that its products are not misused and thus in-

especially human dignity cannot be violated.

 

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 27
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 53 1300
Fax +49 (0) 981 53 98 1300
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

The event is free and will take place on

 

- 2 -

 

  

 

Admission is free.

 

Tuesday, February 19, 2019 at 7 p.m.

in the Museum of Communication,

Lessingstrasse 6

90443 Nuremberg

Information about this and the follow-up events of Data Tuesday can be found on the Museum's website.

ums for communication (https://www.mfk-nuernberg.de/datendienstag/) and soon also on the website of the

BayLDA (www.lda.bayern.de).

 

Thomas Kranig

president

 

