The Danish Data Protection Authority recommends PrivatBo for a fine
Date: 04-08-2020
Decision
Private companies
Police report
Serious criticism
Reported breach of personal data security
Treatment safety
Social Security number
Unintentional disclosure
PrivatBo has been reported to the police, as the Danish Data Protection Authority assesses that the management company has not met the requirements for an appropriate level of security in the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
The Danish Data Protection Authority has appointed PrivatBo A.M.B.A. of 1993 to a fine of DKK 150,000 after disclosing the tenants' confidential information.
In 2018, PrivatBo – as a management company – assisted a housing fund with a planned sale of three properties. On that occasion, PrivatBo provided material for the properties in question, which was distributed to the residents of the properties in question in a total of 424 USB keys. However, PrivatBo was not aware that documents containing personal data of a confidential nature and which should not have been passed on were attached to some of the leases provided.
"In a case like the one in question, it is our assessment that PrivatBo should at least have reviewed the offer material before it was handed over to others. In this connection, we are particularly responsible for the fact that there was a risk of passing on information of a confidential nature to e.g. neighbors, and that this could entail significant discomfort for the tenants in question, including loss of reputation," says Frederik Viksøe Siegumfeldt, head of the supervisory unit in the Norwegian Data Protection Authority, and adds:
"In general, when you as a company process people's personal data, you also have a responsibility to ensure that they do not come to the knowledge of unauthorized persons. In this case, we do not believe that PrivatBo has done enough to prevent the personal data from being passed on."
The Danish Data Protection Authority has thus assessed that PrivatBo has not met the requirements in Article 32 of the Data Protection Regulation to implement appropriate technical and organizational security measures. Based on the nature of the case, the supervisory authority has therefore chosen to report PrivatBo to the police for the accidental disclosure of personal data that occurred as part of the delivery of the 424 USB keys.
The Danish Data Protection Authority has also found grounds for expressing serious criticism that PrivatBo subsequently - in connection with the same obligation to offer - inadvertently handed over an overview of deposits and prepaid rent, and in some cases information about outlays in deposits, distributed by the address of the tenancies to residents in a property other than that which was covered by the obligation to offer in question. The accidental disclosure of this information occurred despite the fact that PrivatBo had hired an external audit company in order to ensure the quality of the material.
Do you want to know more?
Press inquiries can be directed to communications consultant Anders Due on tel. 29 49 32 83.