 

 

 
PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
Athens, 30-01-2019

 

 
Prot. No.: G/EX/747/30-01-2019

 

 

      

 
FOR OPIC CHARACTER

 

 

 
A P O F A S H 1 /2019

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(Department)

 

 
The Personal Data Protection Authority met in

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
composition of the Department at its headquarters on Wednesday 12.12.2018 following his invitation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in the history

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of the present. They were attended by Deputy President Georgios Batzalexis,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
obstructing the President of the Authority, Constantinos Menoudakos, and the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
alternate members

 

 
of the Authority Panagiotis Rontogiannis, Evangelos

 

 

 

 

 
Papakonstantinou and Grigorios Tsolias, as rapporteur, in place of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of regular members Antoniou Imbonis, Konstantinos Lambrinoudakis and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Charalambou Anthopoulos, respectively, who, although they were summoned legally

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in writing, they did not attend due to obstruction. They were present without the right to vote

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Kalli Karveli, specialist scientist-lawyer, as assistant rapporteur, who

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
withdrew after the case was discussed and before the conference and reception

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
decision and Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the administrative department

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
and financial affairs, as secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

  
The Authority took into account the following:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
With the no. prot. G/EI /3826/16.06.2016 appeal to the Authority by A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complains that TA Y SA.

 

 

 

 

 

 
(former AMEL) does not satisfy the right

 

 

 

 

 

 
of his access to his CV which he submitted himself … to the company,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
in order to participate in the hiring process for a job at

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1
 

AMEL METRO. As he specifically mentions in his appeal, despite the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his repeated requests to the Administration of TA Y S.A. and related
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prosecutor's orders, TA Y S.A. still refuses to do so
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provide a copy of his CV.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 in the context of investigating the appeal, the Authority sent a document to be provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clarifications to TA Y S.A., which in from ... and with no. first...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its response to the Authority (No. Prot. Authority C/EI /6155/12.07.2018) stated that:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) there is no objection to the submitted questions of the applicant b)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there is no resume of the applicant in the company's file, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which has been filed with the former AMEL S.A. with protocol number ..., such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the applicant mentions in his applications to the company c) the only document with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. first ... which exists in the protocol of the company formerly AMEL S.A. from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its incorporation up to and including its transformation into TA Y S.A. due to uniform numbering
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is of ... , with a different subject and a different recipient d) to the company AMEL S.A. not
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there was no call for expressions of interest for staff recruitment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

... e) CVs submitted by citizens at the offices of AMEL S.A.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were not evaluated, if there was no need to fill specific positions and
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

f) resumes or employment applications submitted to the former
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AMEL SA are not in the file of TA Y S.A. given that recruitment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are now done through A OP.
 

 

 

 

Following this, the Authority with no. prot. G/EX/7613/26.09.2018 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/7612/26.09.2018 calls respectively called TA Y SA. and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appellant A, to attend the meeting of the Department of the Authority on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

03.10.2018, in order to discuss the appeal of A.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Against
 

the hearing
 

 

on 03.10.2018 were attended by the applicant A,
 

 

 

 

 

 

in person, and Marianna Kordopati, attorney at law of TA Y
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S.A. and Panagiotis Paloukis, Head of its Legal Service, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

who, after developing their views orally, then submitted accordingly
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reminders to the Authority.
  

 

 

In particular, the appellant during the above hearing of 03.10.2018, but also
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the no. prot. G/EI /7937/8.10.2018 his memorandum stated the following: On ...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submitted a CV to the company AMEL. The employee received it, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

filed in the electronic file of CVs with number... . the applications
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which he subsequently submitted to TA Y SA, requesting a copy of the CV
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

of a note he had submitted to the former AMEL, incorrectly mentioned him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number ... as a protocol number, except for TA Y S.A. did not inform him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

never, as it should, that this number does not correspond to a protocol number. When
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

realized it, filed the complaint under no. chief ... prosecutor's office
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

order to grant the requested data, but to date it has not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

receive a response.
 

 

The authorized lawyers of TA Y S.A. during the above hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

03.10.2018, but also with the no. prot. G/EI /8171/15.10.2018 their memo,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stated that a) the applicant with his application to TA Y S.A. from ...
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

he asked to be handed over his curriculum vitae which he claimed that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had filed the … in the company protocol with number …, that is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appeared seven years after the alleged CV submission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the former AMEL S.A. and requested access to his personal data, time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

during which any claim against the company was already time-barred, b) no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it was possible to grant his request, given the lack of a file
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

resumes and the consequences of the lack of the resume
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

note and the same in any file of the company c) from nowhere
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

arises and consequently it is not proven that a CV was submitted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the complainant in the company d) given that the company TA Y formerly AMEL
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S.A. operated as a private business and did not maintain a record of resumes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notes of candidates for employment in any of its positions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

company, there is no relevant file to process, e) the Prosecutor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Court of First Instance of Athens with the order of ... rejected the appeal of A,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

judging that the submission of his CV does not result
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaining to the former AMEL SA, that for seven years he did not do anything
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

action, nor was he interested in the fate of his application, that it does not appear that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

formerly AMEL S.A. issued a call for expression of interest for coverage
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of service needs at the time the complainant maintains that he testified
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

curriculum vitae, that it turned out that AMEL S.A. it had no basis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data entry of biographical notes, that the company did not evaluate
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

even applications or resumes, that the number ... corresponds to a document
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

earlier and with unrelated content and that the legal representatives and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employees of the company TA Y S.A. acted within the limits of legality
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and that in any case a period of seven years has elapsed, by which time
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

any actions performed were prescribed, given that the complainant was negligent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for a long time to be interested in his case f') likewise the shoulder
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Public Administration Inspectors-Auditors with the ... Audit Report on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of relevant complaints submitted by A, considered that it is not confirmed by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

some file of TA Y S.A. the protocol number mentioned by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainants that he received during the submission of his curriculum vitae
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2008, and the recruitment of employees that took place in 2009, took place without
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the partnership of A EP, because they were not under its jurisdiction at the time and finally, g)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TA Y SA responded to all similar requests of the complainant within
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reasonable time, even though the
 

 

 

 

 

himself appeared seven years after
 

 

 

 

 

 

referring to the submission of his CV to the former AMEL S.A.,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

observing beyond what is necessary its obligation to respond to their requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

citizens.
 

 

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, the hearing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

procedure and after hearing the rapporteur and assistant rapporteur, who
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after the case was discussed and before the conference and reception
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decision, after thorough discussion
 

 

 

 

 

 
SEVEN E ACCORDING TO THE LAW

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. in accordance with the provisions of article 12 par. 1, 2 and 4 of Law 2472/1997, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subject has the right by submitting the relevant request to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the controller to know if personal data that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concern are or were the subject of processing as well as to request and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

receives without delay from the data controller all data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature concerning it. If the controller does not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

answer within fifteen days or if his answer is not satisfactory, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subject has the right to appeal to the Authority.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The same right is expressly provided for in the GDPR (Article 15), in paragraph 3 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of which it is stated that the data controller provides the subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data and a copy of the personal data submitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing.
  

 

4
 



2. From the information in the file and from the hearing process, no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it emerged that the referenced resume was filed and registered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the complainant in TA Y S.A., formerly AMEL S.A., nor that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complained company kept a physical and/or electronic record of submissions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

voluntarily resume or registration database
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

biographical notes, and the number mentioned by the complainant
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3810/July 2008 corresponds to an earlier document with unrelated content.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Therefore, file creation and data processing did not occur
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature.
  

 

 

 

 
FOR THOSE REASONS

 

 

 

The Authority rejects the appeal of A.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

              

 

 

 

 

 

    
The Deputy President

 

 

              

    

  
The Secretary

 

   
George Batzalexis

 

 

                  

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

5
 

