 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Recommendations 01/2021 on the adequacy referential 

under the Law Enforcement Directive   

Adopted on 2 February 2021 

 

vo.1 Adopted 

1 

 

Version history 
 

Version 1.1 
 
Version 1.0 
 

 
 
 

6 July 2021 

Formatting change 

2 February 2021 

Adoption of the Recommendations 

 

vo.1 Adopted 

2 

 

 

Table of contents 
1. 

INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................................. 4 

2. 

3. 

CONCEPT OF ADEQUACY ................................................................................................................ 5 

PROCEDURAL ASPECTS FOR ADEQUACY FINDINGS UNDER THE LED ............................................ 6 

EU STANDARDS FOR ADEQUACY IN THE POLICE COOPERATION AND JUDICIAL COOPERATION IN 
4. 
CRIMINAL MATTERS ................................................................................................................................ 8 

A. General principles and safeguards ................................................................................................ 10 

a) Concepts ................................................................................................................................... 10 

b) Lawfulness and fairness of the processing of personal data ................................................... 10 

c) The purpose limitation principle .............................................................................................. 11 

d) Specific conditions for further processing for other purposes ................................................ 12 

e) The data minimisation principle .............................................................................................. 12 

f) The principle of data accuracy .................................................................................................. 12 

g) The data retention principle .................................................................................................... 12 

h) The security and confidentiality principle ................................................................................ 12 

i) The transparency principle (Article 13, Recitals 26, 39, 42, 43, 44, 46) .................................... 13 

j) The right of access, to rectification and erasure (Articles 14 and 16) ...................................... 13 

k) Restrictions on data subject rights ........................................................................................... 14 

l) Restriction on onward transfers (Article 35, Recitals 64-65) .................................................... 14 

m) Accountability principle .......................................................................................................... 14 

B. Examples of additional principles to be applied to specific types of processing .......................... 15 

a) Special categories of data ........................................................................................................ 15 

b) Automated decision making and profiling ............................................................................... 15 

c) Data protection by design and by default ................................................................................ 15 

C. Procedural and enforcement mechanisms ................................................................................... 16 

a) Competent independent supervisory authority ...................................................................... 16 

b) Effective implementation of data protection rules ................................................................. 16 

c) The data protection system shall facilitate the exercise of data subject rights ....................... 16 

d) The data protection system shall provide appropriate redress mechanisms ......................... 16 

 
 

 

vo.1 Adopted 

3 

 

The European Data Protection Board 

Having regard to Article 51 (1) (b) of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the 
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data  by  competent  authorities  for  the  purposes  of  the  prevention,  investigation,  detection  or 
prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of 
such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA1, 
 
Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure, 
 
 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATIONS 

1.  INTRODUCTION 

 
1.  The Working Party Article 29 (WP29) has published a working document2 on adequacy referential 
under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)3. This working document was endorsed by 
the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) at its first plenary.   

 
2.  As stated in Declaration N°21 annexed to the Lisbon Treaty, specific rules on the  protection of 
personal data and the free movement of such data in the fields of judicial cooperation in criminal 
matters  and  police  cooperation  based  on  Article  16  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Functioning  of  the 
European Union (TFEU) may prove necessary because of the specific nature of these fields.   

 
3.  On this basis, the EU legislator adopted Directive (EU) 2016/680 (the Law Enforcement Directive, 
hereinafter the ‘LED’) laying down the specific rules with regard to the processing of personal data 
by  competent  authorities  for  the  purposes  of  the  prevention,  investigation,  detection  or 
prosecution  of  criminal  offences  or  the  execution  of  criminal  penalties,  including  the 
safeguarding against the prevention of threats to public security.    

 
4.  The LED determines the grounds allowing the transfer of personal data to a third country or an 
international organisation in this context. One of the grounds for such transfer is the decision by 
the European Commission that the third country or international organisation in question ensures 
an adequate level of protection.  

 
5.  Where the working document WP254.rev01 on adequacy referential aims to provide guidance to 
the  European  Commission  on  the  level  of  data  protection  in  third  countries  and  international 
organisations under the GDPR, the present document aims to provide similar guidance under the 
LED. It establishes in this context the core data protection principles that have to be present in a 

                                                 
1 OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89. 
2  WP254.rev01  adopted  by  WP  29  on  28  November  2017  as  last  revised  and  adopted  on  6  February  2018.  It 
updates Chapter I of the Working Document ʽTransfers of personal data to third countries: Applying Articles 25 
and 26 of the EU data protection directiveʼ, WP12, adopted by WP29 on 24 July 1998. 
3 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1. 

vo.1 Adopted 

4 

 

third  country or  an  international organisation  legal  framework  to ensure  essential  equivalence 
with  the  EU  framework  within  the  scope  of  the  LED  (i.e.  for  processing  of  personal  data  by 
competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution 
of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties). In addition, it may guide third countries 
and international organisations interested in obtaining adequacy.    

 
6.  The present document focuses solely on adequacy decisions. These are implementing acts of the 

European Commission according to Article 36(3) of the LED.  

2.  CONCEPT OF ADEQUACY  

 
7.  The  LED  sets  the  rules  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  to  third  countries  and  international 
organisations  to  the  extent  that  such  transfers  fall  within  its  scope.  The  rules  on  international 
transfers of personal data are laid down in Chapter V of the LED, in particular its Articles 35 to 39.  

 
8.  Pursuant to Article 36 of the LED, data transfers to a third country or an international organisation 
may take place if a third country, a territory or one or more specified sectors within a third country 
or an international organisation ensure an adequate level of protection. It stems from the Court 
of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) case law4 that this provision, must be read in the light of 
Article 35 of the LED, entitled ‘General principle for transfers of personal data’, which lays down 
that ‘all provisions [in Chapter V of the LED] shall be applied in order to ensure that the level of 
protection of natural persons ensured by this Directive is not undermined’.  

 
9.  Where the European Commission has decided that such adequacy level of protection is ensured, 
transfers of personal data to that third country, territory, sector or international organisation can 
take place, without the need to obtain any specific authorisation, except where another Member 
State from which the data were obtained has to give its authorisation to the transfer as provided 
in  Articles  35  and  36  and  Recital 66  of  the  LED.  This  is  without  prejudice  to  the  need  for  the 
processing  of  data  by  the  concerned  Member  States'  authorities  to  comply  with  the  national 
provisions adopted pursuant to Directive (EU) 2016/680. 

 
10. This concept of ‘adequate level of protection’ which already existed under Directive 95/465 and 
Council  Framework  Decision  2008/977/JHA6  has  been  further  developed  by  the  CJEU  in  this 
context and, recently, in the framework of the GDPR.  

 
11. As specified by the  CJEU, while  the  level of protection in the  third country must  be  essentially 
equivalent to that guaranteed in the EU, ‘the means to which that third country has recourse, in 
this connection, for the  purpose of such a level of protection may differ from those employed 
within the European Union’ but ‘those means must nevertheless prove, in practice, effective’7. The 

                                                 
4 Case C-311/18, Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Ltd and Maximillian Schrems, 16 July 2020, 
ECLI:EU:C:2020:559, §92 (Schrems II). 
5  Directive  95/46/EC  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  24  October  1995  on  the  protection  of 
individuals  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  OJ  L  281, 
23.11.1995, p. 31.  
6 Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA of 27 November 2008 on the protection of personal data processed 
in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, OJ L 350, 30.12.2008, p. 60.  

7 Case C-362/14, Maximillian Schrems v Data Protection Commissioner, 6 October 2015, ECLI:EU:C:2015:650, 
§§73 and 74 (Schrems I).   

vo.1 Adopted 

5 

 

adequacy standard therefore does not require to mirror point by point the EU legislation, but to 
establish the essential - core requirements of that legislation. 

 
12. In this context, the court also clarified that a Commission adequacy decision should contain any 
finding regarding the existence, in the third country, of rules adopted by this country intended to 
limit any interference with the fundamental rights of the persons whose data is transferred from 
the European Union to this third country, interference which the public entities of that country 
would  be  authorised  to  engage  in  when  they  pursue  legitimate  objectives,  such  as  national 
security8. 

 
13. The  purpose  of  adequacy  decisions  by  the  European  Commission  is  to  formally  confirm,  with 
binding effects on Member States9 including their competent data protection authorities10, that 
the  level  of  data  protection  in  a  third  country  or  an  international  organisation  is  essentially 
equivalent to the level of data protection in the European Union. The third country should offer 
guarantees ensuring an adequate level of protection essentially equivalent to that ensured within 
the Union, in particular where data are processed in one or several specific sectors11.  

 
14. Adequacy can be achieved through a combination of rights for the data subjects and obligations 
on  those  who  process  data,  or  who  exercise  control  over  such  processing  and  supervision  by 
independent bodies. However, data protection rules are only effective if they are enforceable and 
followed in practice. It is therefore necessary to consider not only the content of rules applicable 
to  personal  data  transferred  to  a  third  country  or  an  international  organisation,  but  also  the 
system in place to ensure the effectiveness of such rules. Efficient enforcement mechanisms are 
of paramount importance to the effectiveness of data protection rules12.  

3.  PROCEDURAL ASPECTS FOR ADEQUACY FINDINGS UNDER THE LED 

 
15. In order to fulfil its task in advising the European Commission according to Article 51 (1) (g) of the 
LED, the EDPB should receive all relevant documentation, including relevant correspondence and 
the  findings  made  by  the  European  Commission.  It  is  absolutely  necessary,  that  all  relevant 
documents  are  transmitted  sufficiently  in  advance  and  translated  into  English  to  the  EDPB  to 
enable informed and useful discussions before the final adoption of adequacy decisions. Where 
the legal framework is complex, this should include any report prepared on the data protection 
level of the third country or international organisation. In any case, the information provided by 
the  European  Commission  should  be  exhaustive  and  put  the  EDPB  in  a  position  to  assess  the 
analysis carried out by the Commission regarding the level of data protection in the third country 
or international organisation.  

 

                                                 
8 Schrems I, §88. 
9 Article 288 TFEU. 
10 Schrems I, §52. 
11 Recital 67 LED. 
12 Schrems I, §§72-74 and CJEU Opinion 1/15, on the draft agreement between Canada and the European Union, 
26 July 2017, ECLI:EU:C:2017:592 (Opinion 1/15), § 134: ‘That right to the protection of personal data requires, 
inter alia, that the  high level  of protection of fundamental rights and  freedoms conferred by EU law continues 
where personal data is transferred from the European Union to a  non-member country. Even though the means 
intended to ensure such a level of protection may differ from those employed within the European Union in order 
to ensure that the requirements stemming from EU law are complied with, those means must nevertheless prove, 
in practice, effective in order to ensure protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within the European 
Union’. 

6 

vo.1 Adopted 

 

16. The EDPB will provide an opinion on the European Commission’s findings in due time, identifying 
insufficiencies in the adequacy framework, if any, and providing possible recommendations where 
necessary.  

 
17. According  to  Article  36  (4)  of  the  LED  it  is  upon  the European  Commission  to monitor  -  on  an 

ongoing basis - developments that could affect the functioning of an adequacy decision.  

 
18. Article 36 (3) of the LED provides that a periodic review must take place at least every four years. 
This  is,  however,  a  general  time  frame  which  must  be  adjusted  to  each  third  country  or 
international organisation with an adequacy decision. Depending on the particular circumstances 
at hand, a shorter review cycle could be warranted. Also, incidents or other information about or 
changes in the legal framework in the third country or international organisation in question might 
trigger the need for a review ahead of schedule. It also appears to be appropriate to have a first 
review of an entirely new adequacy decision rather soon and gradually adjust the review cycle 
depending on the outcome.  

 
19. Given its task to provide the European Commission with an opinion on whether the third country, 
a territory or one or more specified sectors in this third country or an international organisation, 
no longer ensures an adequate level of protection, the EDPB must, in due time, receive meaningful 
information  regarding  the  monitoring  of  the  relevant  developments  in  that  third  country  or 
international organisation by the EU Commission. Hence, the EDPB should be kept informed of 
any review process and review mission in the third country or to the international organisation. 
The EDPB recommends being invited to participate in these review processes and missions, as it 
was foreseen in the Privacy Shield decision and is foreseen in the adequacy decision concerning 
Japan.  

 
20. It should also be noted that, according to Article 36 (5) of the LED, the European Commission has 
the power, where the third country or international organisation no longer ensures an adequate 
level of protection, to repeal, amend or suspend existing adequacy decisions. The procedure to 
repeal, amend or suspend involves the EDPB by requesting its opinion in accordance with Article 
51 (1) (g) of the LED.  

 
21. Furthermore, without prejudice to the powers of prosecutorial authorities, supervisory authorities 
should also have the power to bring infringements of this Directive to the attention of the judicial 
authorities  or  to  engage  in  legal  proceedings13. It  stems  in  particular  from  the  CJEU  Schrems  I 
ruling, that data protection authorities must be able to engage in legal proceedings  before the 
national courts if they find a claim by a person against an adequacy decision well founded14. The 
Schrems II ruling confirmed this assessment15. 

                                                 
13 See Article 47 (5) LED and Recital 82 thereof. 
14  See  Schrems  I, §65:  ‘It  is  incumbent  upon  the  national  legislature  to  provide  for  legal  remedies  enabling  the 
national supervisory authority concerned to put forward the objections which it considers well founded before the 
national courts in order for them, if they share its doubts as to the validity of the Commission decision, to make a 
reference for a preliminary ruling for the purpose of examination of the decision’s validity’. 
15 See Schrems II, §120: ‘Even if the Commission has adopted a Commission adequacy decision, the competent 
national supervisory authority, when a complaint is lodged by a person concerning the protection of his or her 
rights and freedoms in regard to the processing of personal data relating to him or her, must be able to examine, 
with complete independence, whether the transfer of that data complies with the requirements laid down by the 
GDPR and, where relevant, to bring an action before the national courts in order for them, if they share the doubts 
of that supervisory authority as to the validity of  the Commission adequacy decision, to make a reference for a 
preliminary ruling for the purpose of examining its validity’. 

7 

vo.1 Adopted 

 

4.  EU STANDARDS FOR ADEQUACY IN THE POLICE COOPERATION 

AND JUDICIAL COOPERATION IN CRIMINAL MATTERS 

 
22. On substance, adequacy decisions should focus on the assessment of the existing legislation of the 
third country concerned as a whole, in theory and practice, in light of the assessment criteria set 
out in Article 36 of the LED. A third country or international organisation’s system must contain 
the  following  basic  general,  procedural  and  enforcement  data  protection  principles  and 
mechanisms.  

 
23. Article 36 (2) of the LED establishes the elements that the European Commission shall take into 
account when assessing the adequacy of the level of protection in a third country or international 
organisation.  

 
24. In particular, the Commission shall take into consideration the rule of law, respect for human rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms16,  relevant  legislation,  as  well  as  the  implementation  of  such 
legislation, effective and enforceable data subject rights and effective administrative and judicial 
redress  for  the  data  subjects  whose  personal  data  are  transferred,  the  existence  and  effective 
functioning  of  one  or  more 
international 
commitments the third country or international organisation has entered into.  

independent  supervisory  authorities  and  the 

 
25. It is therefore clear that any meaningful analysis of adequate protection must comprise two basic 
elements:  the  content  of  the  rules  applicable  and  the  means  for  ensuring  their  effective 
implementation in practice. It is upon the European Commission to verify  – on a regular basis - 
that the rules in place are effective in practice.  

 

26. The  core  of  data  protection  general  principles  and  procedural  and  enforcement  requirements, 
which could be seen as a minimum requirement for protection to be adequate, are derived from 
the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU (Charter) and the LED. General provisions regarding 
data  protection  and  privacy  in  the  third  country  are  not  sufficient.  On  the  contrary,  specific 
provisions addressing concretely the right to data protection in the law enforcement area must be 
included in the third country’s or international organisation’s legal framework. The third country 
should offer guarantees ensuring an adequate level of protection essentially equivalent to  that 
ensured within the Union. These provisions have to be enforceable. 

 

27.  Furthermore, regarding the principle of proportionality17, the CJEU held, in relation to Member 
State  laws,  that  the  question  as  to  whether  a  limitation  on  the  rights  to  privacy  and  to  data 
protection may be justified must be assessed, on the one hand, by measuring the seriousness of 
the interference entailed by such a limitation18 and by verifying that the importance of the public 

                                                 
16 When assessing the legal framework of the third country, the possibility that death penalty or any form of cruel 
and inhuman treatment could be imposed on the basis of data transferred from the EU should be taken into account. 
Indeed, should such penalty or treatment be foreseen in the law of the third country, additional safeguards should 
be found in the third country legal framework to ensure that data transferred from the EU would not be used to 
request, hand down or execute a death penalty or any form of cruel and inhuman treatment (e.g. an international  
agreement imposing conditions on the transfer, a commitment by the third country not to impose death penalty or 
any  form  of  cruel  and  inhuman  treatment  on  the  basis  of  data  transferred  from  the  EU  or  a  death  penalty 
moratorium).  
17 Article 52(1) of the Charter. 
18 The court noted for instance  that  ‘the interference constituted by the real-time collection of data that allows 
terminal  equipment  to  be  located  appears  particularly  serious,  since  that  data  provides  the  competent  national 

vo.1 Adopted 

8 

 

interest objective pursued by that limitation is proportionate to that seriousness, on the other 
hand19.  

 
28.  According to the case-law of the CJEU, a legal basis which permits interference with fundamental 
rights must, in order to satisfy the requirements of the principle of proportionality, itself define 
the  scope  of  the  limitation  on  the  exercise  of  the  right  concerned20.  Derogations  from  and 
limitations on the protection of personal data must apply only in so far as is strictly necessary21. 
In order to satisfy this requirement, besides laying down clear and precise rules governing the 
scope  and  application  of  the  measure  in  question,  the  concerned  legislation  must  impose 
minimum  safeguards,  so  that  the  persons  whose  data  have  been  transferred  have  sufficient 
guarantees  to  protect  effectively  their  personal  data  against  the  risk  of  abuse.  ‘It  must,  in 
particular, indicate in what circumstances and under which conditions a measure providing for 
the processing of such data may be adopted, thereby ensuring that the interference is limited to 
what is strictly necessary. The need for such safeguards is all the greater where personal data is 
subject to automated processingʼ22. 

 

29.  The  EDPB  has  adopted  Recommendations  identifying  essential  guarantees  reflecting  the 
jurisprudence  of  the  CJEU  and  the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights  (ECtHR)  in  the  field  of 
surveillance to be found in the law of the third country when assessing the interferences of such 
third  country  surveillance  measures  with  the  rights  of  data  subjects  in  case  the  data  are 
transferred  to  that  third  country  under  the  GDPR23.  To  assess  whether  Article  36(2)a)  LED 
conditions  are  fulfilled,  the  EDPB  considers  that  the  guarantees  set  out 
in  these 
Recommendations have to be taken into account when assessing the adequacy of a third country 
under the LED in the field of surveillance, bearing in mind further specific conditions in the field 
of surveillance in this context. 

  
30.  In  relation  to  Article  36(2)b)  requirement,  the  third  country  should  not  only  ensure  effective 
independent data protection supervision but also provide for cooperation mechanisms with the 
Member States' data protection authorities24.  

 
31.  In relation to Article 36(2) c) requirement, apart from the international commitments the third 
country  or  international  organisation  has  entered  into,  consideration  should  also  be  given  to 
obligations  arising  from  the  third  country's  or  international  organisation's  participation  in 
multilateral or regional systems, in particular in relation to the protection of personal data, as 
well as the implementation of such obligations, in particular the third country’s accession to other 
international agreements on data protection, e.g. the Council of Europe Convention of 28 January 
1981 for the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data 
and its Additional Protocol should be taken into account (Convention 10825 and its modernised 
version,  Convention  108+).  The  third  country’s  compliance  with  principles  enshrined  in 
international documents such as the Council of Europe  Practical Guide on the use of personal 

                                                 
authorities  with a  means of accurately and permanently tracking the  movements of users of  mobile telephones 
(...)ʼ  (joined  cases  C-511/18,  C-512/18  and  C-520/18,  La  Quadrature  du  Net  and  others,  6  October  2020, 
ECLI:EU:C:2020:791, §187, including cited jurisprudence). 
19 La Quadrature du Net and others, §131. 
20 Schrems II, §180. 
21 Schrems II, §176, including cited jurisprudence. 
22 Schrems II, §176, including cited jurisprudence. 
23 EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential Guarantees for surveillance measures, adopted on 
10 November 2020.  
24 Recital 67 LED. 
25 Recital 68 LED. 

vo.1 Adopted 

9 

 

data in the police sector: how to protect personal data while combatting crime may also be taken 
into account. 

 
32.  An adequacy decision should ensure that through the substance of privacy and data protection 
rights and their effective implementation, supervision and enforcement, the foreign system as a 
whole delivers the required level of protection, including for data in transit to this third country. 
As underlined by the CJEU in the Schrems II ruling, the high level of protection afforded should 
also be ensured while data are being transferred to a third country26.  

 
33.  Finally, when adopting an adequacy decision with regard only to a territory or a specified sector 
in a third country, the European Commission should take into account clear and objective criteria, 
such as referring to specific processing activities or the scope of applicable legal standards and 
legislation in force in the third country27.  

 
A.  General principles and safeguards 

a) Concepts  
 
34.  Basic data protection concepts should exist. These do not have to mirror the LED terminology but 
should reflect and be consistent with the concepts enshrined in the European data protection 
law.  By  way  of  example,  the  LED  includes  the  following  important  concepts:  ‘personal  data’, 
‘processing  of  personal  data’,  ‘competent  authorities’,  ‘data  controller’,  ‘data  processor’, 
‘recipient’,  ‘sensitive  data’,  ‘accuracy’,  ‘profiling’,  ‘data  protection  by  design  and  by  default’, 
‘supervisory authority’ and ‘pseudonymisation’. 

 
b) Lawfulness and fairness of the processing of personal data (Article 4 - Recital 26)  
 
35.  Under  Article 8(2)  of  the  Charter,  personal  data  should,  inter  alia,  be  processed  ‘for  specified 
purposes and on the basis of the consent of the person concerned or some other legitimate basis 
laid down by law’28.  However,  in the context  of law  enforcement, it should be noted that the 
performance of the tasks of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences 
institutionally  conferred  by  law  to  the  competent  authorities  allows  them  to require  or order 
natural persons to comply with requests made. In such a case, the consent of the data subject 
should not provide a legal ground for processing personal data by competent authorities29. 

 
36.  This legal basis should lay down clear and precise rules governing the scope and application of 
the relevant data processing activities and imposing minimum safeguards30. In addition, the CJEU 
recalled that ‘legislation must be legally binding under domestic lawʼ31.  

                                                 
26 See §93. 
27 Recital 67 LED. 
28 See Schrems II, §173. 
29 Recital 35 LED also states that ‘[w]here the data subject is required to comply with a legal obligation, the data 
subject has no genuine and free choice, so that the reaction of the  data subject could not be considered to be a 
freely given indication of his or her wishes. This should not preclude Member States from providing, by law, that 
the data subject may agree to the processing of his or her personal data for the purposes of this Directive, such as 
DNA tests in criminal investigations or the monitoring of his or her location with electronic tags for the execution 
of criminal penalties’.  
30 See Schrems II, §175 and §180 and Opinion 1/15, § 139 and the case law cited. 
31  See  case  C-623/17,  Privacy  International  v  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  and  Commonwealth  Affairs  and 
Others,  6  October  2020,  ECLI:EU:C:2020:790,  §68  – It  should  also  be  clear  that  in  the  French  version  of  the 
judgment, the CJEU uses the word ‘réglementationʼ which is broader than only acts of Parliament. 

vo.1 Adopted 

10 

 

 
37.  To be lawful, the data processing32 should be necessary for the performance of a task carried out 
by a competent authority for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution 
of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, including the safeguards against and 
the prevention of threats to public security33. These purposes should be provided in national law.  

 
38.  Personal data shall be processed fairly. The data protection principle of fair processing is a distinct 
notion from the right to a fair trial as defined in Article 47 of the Charter and in Article 6 of the 
European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR)34. 

 
c) The purpose limitation principle (Article 4) 
  
39.  The specific purposes for which the personal data are processed should be explicit and legitimate 

and determined at the time of the collection of the personal data35. 

 
40.  Data should be processed for a specified, explicit and legitimate purpose within the purposes of 
the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of 
criminal penalties36, including the safeguarding against and the prevention of threats to public 
security within the third country and subsequently used for any of these purposes insofar as this 
is  not  incompatible  with the  original  purpose  of  the  processing,  (e.g.  for  parallel  enforcement 
proceedings  or  archiving  in  the  public  interest,  scientific,  statistical  or  historical  use  for  such 
purposes) and subject to appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects. If 
personal  data  are  processed  by  the  same  or  another  controller  (competent  authority37)  for  a 
purpose  of  preventing,  investigating,  detecting  or  prosecuting  criminal  offences  or  executing 
criminal penalties other than that for which they have been collected, such processing should be 
permitted under the condition that such processing is authorised in accordance with applicable 
legal provisions and is necessary for and proportionate to that other purpose38. The existence of 
a  mechanism  to  inform  the  relevant  Member  States’  competent  authorities  of  such  further 
processing  of  data  should  also  be  taken  into  account39.  In  addition,  in  any  case  the  level  of 
protection of natural persons provided for in the Union by the LED should not be undermined 
including in those cases where personal data are transmitted from the third country to controllers 
or processors in the same third country40.  

 
 

                                                 
32 Processing of personal data wholly or partly by automated means, and the processing other than by automated 
means of personal data which form part of a filing system or are intended to form part of a filing system. 
33 Competent authorities are any public authority competent for such purposes or any other body or entity entrusted 
by law to exercise public authority and public powers for such purposes. 
34 Recital 26 LED. 
35 Recital 26 LED. 
36 It includes ‘police activities without prior knowledge if an incident is a criminal offence or not. Such activities 
can also include the exercise of authority by taking coercive measures such as police activities at demonstrations, 
major sporting events and riots. They also include maintaining law and order as a task conferred on the police or 
other law-enforcement authorities where necessary to safeguard against and prevent threats to public security and 
to fundamental interests of the society protected by law which may lead to a criminal offenceʼ (Recital 12 LED). 
It is to be distinguished from a national security purpose or from activities which fall within the scope of Chapter  2 
of Title V of the Treaty on European Union (TEU) (Recital 14 LED). 
37 See footnote 33. 
38 Recital 29 LED. 
39  Such  mechanism  could  be  for  instance  mutually  agreed  handling  codes,  a  notification  obligation  under  an 
international instrument, including possible automated notifications, or other similar transparency measures. 
40 Recital 64 LED. 

vo.1 Adopted 

11 

 

d) Specific conditions for further processing for other purposes (Article 9) 
 
41.  Concerning further processing or disclosure of data transferred from the EU for other purposes 
than law enforcement purposes, such as national security purposes, it should also be provided by 
law,  be  necessary  and  proportionate.  The  existence  of  a  mechanism  to  inform  the  relevant 
Member States’ competent authorities of such further processing of data should also be taken 
into account41. Here as well, once further processed or disclosed, the data should benefit from 
the same level of protection as when they were processed initially by the receiving competent 
authority.  

e) The data minimisation principle  
 
42.  The data should be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which 
they  are  processed.  In  particular,  the  application  of  data  protection  by  design  and  by  default 
requirements, such as limited entry fields (structured communications) or automated and non-
automated quality checks, should be taken into account. 

f) The principle of data accuracy 
 
43.  The data should be accurate and where necessary kept up to date. Nevertheless, the principle of 
accuracy  of  data  should  be  applied  while  taking  account  of  the  nature  and  purpose  of  the 
processing concerned. In particular in judicial proceedings, statements containing personal data 
are  based  on  the  subjective  perception  of  natural  persons  and  are  not  always  verifiable. 
Consequently, the requirement of accuracy should not appertain to the accuracy of a statement 
but merely to the fact that a specific statement has been made42. 

 
44.  It should be ensured that personal data which are inaccurate, incomplete or no longer up to date 
are not transmitted or made available43 and that procedures are foreseen to correct or delete 
inaccurate data. In particular, any classification system of the information processed, as to the 
reliability of the source and as to the facts verification level44, should be taken into account. 

g) The data retention principle 
 
45.  Data should be kept for no longer than is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. 
Appropriate mechanisms should be established for the erasure of personal data; it may be a fixed 
period or a periodic review of the need for the storage of personal data (or a combination of both: 
fixed maximum period and periodic review at certain intervals)45. Personal data stored for longer 
periods for archiving in the public interest, scientific, statistical or historical use should be subject 
to appropriate safeguards (e.g. regarding access)46. 

 
h) The security and confidentiality principle (Article 29, Recitals 28 and 71) 
 
46.  Any entity processing personal data should ensure that the data are processed in a manner that 
ensures security of the personal data including by preventing unauthorised access to or use of 
personal data and the equipment used for the processing. This includes protection against, and 

                                                 
41 See footnote 39. 
42 Recital 30 LED. 
43 Recital 32 LED. 
44 E.g. 4x4 grids for reliability assessments and handling codes. 
45 Article 5 LED. 
46 Recital 26 LED. 

vo.1 Adopted 

12 

 

 

appropriate measures to address, unlawful processing as well as accidental loss, destruction or 
damage, using appropriate technical and organisational measures. When determining the level 
of the security, the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context 
and purposes of the processing as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights 
and freedoms of natural persons should be taken into consideration. 

47.  Secure  channels  of  communication  between  Member  States’  authorities  transferring  the 

personal data and third States’ receiving authorities should be ensured. 

i) The transparency principle (Article 13, Recitals 26, 39, 42, 43, 44, 46) 
 
48.  Natural persons should be made aware of risks, rules, safeguards and rights  in relation to the 
processing of their personal data and how to exercise their rights in relation to the processing47.  

 
49.  Information on all the main elements of the processing of their personal data should be made 
available to the individuals. This information should be easily accessible and easy to understand, 
using clear and plain language. Such information should include the purpose of the processing, 
the  identity of the  data  controller,  the  rights made  available  to  them48  and other  information 
insofar as this is necessary to ensure fairness.  

 
50.  Some  exceptions  to  this  right  of  information  may  exist.  Such  limitation  should  however  be 
allowed by a legislative measure and be necessary and proportionate to avoid obstructing official 
or legal inquiries, investigations or procedures, to avoid prejudicing the prevention, investigation, 
detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, to protect 
public security or national security, or to protect the rights and freedoms of others, as long as 
such  a  partial  or  complete  restriction constitutes  a  necessary  and  proportionate  measure  in a 
democratic  society with  due  regard  for the  fundamental  rights  and  legitimate  interests of the 
natural person concerned. Such restrictions should also be considered and assessed taking into 
account  the  possibility  of  lodging  a  complaint  with  a  supervisory  authority  or  seeking  a  legal 
remedy. In any case, any possible restriction should be temporary and not blanket and should be 
framed by similar conditions, safeguards and limitations to those required under the Charter and 
the  ECHR,  as  interpreted  in  the  case-law  of  the  CJEU  and  by  the  ECtHR  respectively,  and  in 
particular respect the essence of those rights and freedoms.  

j) The right of access, to rectification and erasure (Articles 14 and 16)  
 
51.  The  data  subject  should  have  the  right  to  obtain  confirmation  about  whether  or  not  data 
processing concerning him/her is taking place and where that is the case, have access to his/her 
data. This right should at  least comprise certain information about  the  processing  such as the 
purposes of and legal basis for the processing, the right to lodge a complaint with the supervisory 
authority or the categories of personal data concerned49. This is particularly important in case 
transparency is achieved through general notice (e.g. information on the authority’s website). 

 
52.  The data subject should have the right to obtain rectification of his/her data for specified reasons, 
for example, where they are shown to be inaccurate or incomplete. The data subject should also 
have  the  right  to  have  his/her  data  erased  when  for  example  their  processing  is  no  longer 
necessary or is unlawful.  

 
                                                 
47 Recital 26 LED. 
48 Both the substantive rights (right of access, to rectification etc...) and the right to redress. 
49 Article 14 LED. 

vo.1 Adopted 

13 

 

53.  The exercise of those rights should not be excessively cumbersome for the data subject.  

k) Restrictions on data subject rights 
 
54.  Possible  restrictions  to  these  rights  could  exist  in  order  to  avoid  obstructing  official  or  legal 
inquiries,  investigations  or  procedures,  to  avoid  prejudicing  the  prevention,  investigation, 
detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, to protect 
public security or national security, or to protect the rights and freedoms of others, as long as 
such  a  partial  or  complete  restriction constitutes  a  necessary  and  proportionate  measure  in a 
democratic  society with  due  regard  for the  fundamental  rights  and  legitimate  interests of the 
natural person concerned. Such restrictions should also be considered and assessed taking into 
account the possibility of lodging a complaint with a supervisory authority or seeking a judicial 
remedy. 

l) Restriction on onward transfers (Article 35, Recitals 64-65)  
 
55.  The  onward  transfers  of  personal  data  by  the  initial  recipient  to  another  third  country  or 
international organisation must not undermine the level of protection, provided for in the Union, 
of natural persons whose data is transferred. Therefore, such onward data transfers should be 
permitted only where the continuity of the level of protection afforded under EU law is ensured50. 
In  particular,  the  further  recipient  (i.e.  the  recipient  of  the  onward  transfer)  should  be  a 
competent authority for law enforcement purposes51 and such onward transfers of data may only 
take  place  for  limited  and  specified  purposes  and  as  long  as  there  is  a  legal  ground  for  that 
processing. 

 
56.  The  existence  of  a  mechanism  for  the  relevant  Member  State’s  competent  authorities  to  be 
informed and authorise such onward transfer of data has to also be taken into account. The initial 
recipient  of  the  data  transferred  from  the  EU  should  be  liable  and  be  able  to  prove  that  the 
relevant competent authority of the Member State has authorised the onward transfer52 and that 
appropriate safeguards are provided for onward transfers of data in the absence of an adequacy 
decision concerning the third country to which the data would be onward transferred53.  

 
m) Accountability principle (Article 4(4)) 
 
57.  The controller should be responsible for and be able to demonstrate compliance with the data 

protection principles found in Article 4 of the LED. 

 
 

 

 

                                                 
50 See also Opinion 1/15. 
51 See footnote 33. 
52 In this context, the existence of an obligation or a commitment to implement relevant handling codes defined 
by the transferring Member States’ authorities should be taken into account. 
53 The above requirements are without prejudice to the specific conditions for onward transfers to an adequate 
country set out under the LED ((Article 35 (1) c) and e)). 

14 

vo.1 Adopted 

 

B. Examples of additional principles to be applied to specific types of processing  
 
a) Special categories of data (Article 10 and Recital 37)  
 
58.  Specific safeguards should exist where ‘special categories of data’ are involved54, addressing the 
specific risks involved55. These categories should reflect those enshrined in Article 10 of the LED. 
Processing of special categories of data should  therefore be subject to specific safeguards and 
only be allowed where strictly necessary under certain conditions for instance to protect the vital 
interest of an individual.  

 
b) Automated decision making and profiling (Article 11 and Recital 38)    
 
59.  Decisions  based  solely  on  automated  processing  (automated  individual  decision-making), 
including profiling, which produce adverse legal effects or significantly affect the data subject, 
should  only  take  place  under  certain  conditions  established  in  the  third  country  legal 
framework56. 

 
60.  In the European Union framework, such conditions include, for example, the provision of specific 
information to the data subject and the right to obtain human intervention on the part of the 
controller, in particular to express his or her point of view, to obtain an explanation of the decision 
reached after such assessment or to challenge the decision. 

 
61.  The third country law should, in any case, provide for necessary safeguards for the data subject's 
rights and freedoms. In this regard, the existence of a mechanism to inform the relevant Member 
State’s competent authorities of any further processing such as the use of the transferred data 
for large scale profiling, should also be taken into account. 

 
c) Data protection by design and by default (Article 20) 
 
62.  When  assessing  adequacy,  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  existence  of  an  obligation  for 
controllers to adopt internal policies and implement measures which adhere to the principles of 
data protection by design and data protection by default taking into account the state of the art, 
the cost of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as 
the risks of varying likelihood and severity for rights and freedoms of natural persons posed by 
the processing, both at the time of the determination of the means for processing and at the time 
of  the  processing  itself,  to  adopt  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures,  such  as 
pseudonymisation,  which  are  designed  to  implement  data  protection  principles,  such  as  data 
minimisation,  in  an  effective  manner  and  to  integrate  the  necessary  safeguards  into  the 
processing. 

 

 

                                                 
54 Such special categories are also known as ‘sensitive data’ in Recital 37 LED.    
55 Such additional safeguards could be e.g. specific security measures, limited access rights for staff, restrictions 
as to further processing, automated decision-making, onward sharing or onward transfers. 
56 Opinion 1/15, § 173.   

15 

vo.1 Adopted 

 

C. Procedural and enforcement mechanisms  
  
63.  Although  the  means  to  which  the  third  country  has  recourse  for  the  purpose  of  ensuring  an 
adequate  level of  protection  may  differ  from those  employed  within  the  European  Union57,  a 
system consistent with the European one must be characterized by the existence of the following 
elements:  

 
a) Competent independent supervisory authority (Articles 36(2)b and 36(3) and Recital 67) 
 
64.  One  or  more  independent  supervisory  authorities,  tasked  with  ensuring  and  enforcing 
compliance  with  data  protection  and  privacy  provisions  in  the  third  country  should  exist.  The 
supervisory  authority  shall  act  with  complete  independence  and  impartiality  in  performing  its 
duties and exercising its powers and in doing so shall neither seek nor accept instructions. In that 
context, the supervisory authority should have all adequate enforcement powers to effectively 
ensure  compliance  with  data  protection  rights  and  promote  awareness.  Consideration  should 
also be given to the staff and budget of the supervisory authority. The supervisory authority shall 
also be able, on its own initiative, to conduct investigations. It should also be tasked with assisting 
and  advising  data  subjects  in  exercising  their  rights  (see  also  point  c  below).  The  adequacy 
decisions  should  identify,  where  applicable,  that  supervisory  authority  or  authorities  and  the 
cooperation mechanisms with the supervisory authorities of the Member States to enforce data 
protection rules.  

b) Effective implementation of data protection rules  
 
65.  A third country system should ensure a high degree of awareness among data controllers and 
those processing personal data on their behalf of their obligations, tasks and responsibilities, and 
among data subjects of their rights and the means of exercising them. The existence of effective 
and dissuasive sanctions can play an important role in ensuring respect for rules, as can systems 
of direct verification by authorities, auditors, or independent data protection officials.  

 
66.  A  third  country  data  protection  framework  should oblige  data  controllers  or those  processing 
personal data on their behalf to comply with it and to be able to demonstrate such compliance in 
particular to the competent supervisory authority. Such measures should include keeping records 
or log files of data processing activities for an appropriate period of time. They may also include 
for example data protection impact assessments, the designation of a data protection officer or 
data protection by design and by default.  

 
c) The data protection system shall facilitate the exercise of data subject rights (Articles 12, 17 and 
46 LED) 
 
67.  A third country data protection framework should oblige data controllers to facilitate the exercise 
of  data  subject  rights  referred  to  under  section  A  j)  above  and  provide  that  its  supervisory 
authority, upon request, inform any data subject concerning the exercise of their rights58. 

d) The data protection system shall provide appropriate redress mechanisms  
 
68.  Although there is currently no case law in relation to the adequacy of a third country legal system 
under the LED, the CJEU has interpreted the fundamental right to effective judicial protection as 

                                                 
57 Schrems I, §74.   
58 The exercise of data subjects’ rights could be either direct or indirect. 

vo.1 Adopted 

16 

 

enshrined in Article 47 of the Charter. The first paragraph of Article 47 of the Charter requires 
everyone whose rights and freedoms guaranteed by the law of the European Union are violated 
to have the right to an effective remedy before a tribunal59 in compliance with the conditions laid 
down in that article.  

 
69.  According to settled case law of the CJEU, the very existence of effective judicial review designed 
to ensure compliance with provisions of EU law is inherent in the existence of the rule of law. 
Thus,  legislation  not  providing  for  any  possibility  for  an  individual  to  pursue  legal  remedies  in 
order  to  have  access  to  personal  data  relating  to  him  or  her,  or  to  obtain  the  rectification  or 
erasure of such data, does not respect the essence of the fundamental right to effective judicial 
protection, as enshrined in Article 47 of the Charter60. 

 
70.  The  individual  should  be  able  to  pursue  legal  remedies  to  enforce  his/her  rights  rapidly  and 

effectively, and without prohibitive cost, as well as to ensure compliance.  

 
71.  To do so there must be in place supervision mechanisms allowing for independent investigation 
of complaints  and  enabling  any  infringements of the  right  to  data  protection  and  respect  for 
private life to be identified and punished in practice.  

 
72.  Where rules are not complied with, the data subject whose personal data are transferred to the 
third country should be provided as well with effective administrative and judicial redress in the 
third country, including for compensation for damages as a result of the unlawful processing of 
his/her  personal  data.  This  is  a  key  element  which  must  involve  a  system  of  independent 
adjudication or arbitration which allows compensation to be paid and sanctions imposed where 
appropriate. 

                                                 
59 The CJEU considers that an effective judicial protection can be ensured not only by a court, but also by a body 
which  offers  guarantees  essentially  equivalent  to  those  required  by  Article  47  of  the  Charter  (see  Schrems  II, 
§197). This might be relevant in particular for international organisations. 
60 Schrems II, §§187 and 194, including cited jurisprudence. 

17 

vo.1 Adopted 

