1/6

 File No.: PS/00360/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the complaining party) dated February 22,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the part
claimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are succinctly:
following:

"For about 3 days he has observed how his brother (claimed) has
installed what appears to be a surveillance camera in his home, which is directed
towards the property of the appearing party, clearly observing during the night that
it is on (...) understanding that this violates its
privacy, requesting (…)-folio nº 1-.

A copy of the Inspection Act of the Local Police of the town (Ayto
***CITY COUNCIL.1) No. ***ACTA.1 although it is not conclusive as to
the impact on the claimant's home or its operability.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party in fe-
cha 03/18/21 and 04/16/21, to proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency
within a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

No response has been received to this letter as verified in the database of
this Agency.

THIRD: On July 6, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: On August 24, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 10/04/21, the Instructor of the procedure requested evidence from the
appropriate legal effects in order to clarify the facts object of the claim,
You must indicate on a map the land you own and the area affected by the
camera.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

SIXTH: On 10/22/21, a reply is received from the party complained against
arguing in his right of defense the following:






-Screenshot of the reviewed video-camera where the date and time are recorded.
-Photograph taken from the street and placement of the video camera-
surveillance.
-Photograph taken from public roads with the presence of an information poster
where does it put my name address so that you can exercise the right that
appropriate (...).

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 02/22/21 through the
which this Agency is informed of the presence of a video device
surveillance, presumably without reporting their presence, considering their intimacy affected.
personal identity for this reason (folio nº 1).

Second. It is identified as the main person in charge of the installation Don B.B.B.,
who does not deny the facts that are transferred.

Third. The operability of the device in question is accredited, obeying its
installation to the safety of the fine, limiting its focus to the entrance area of the vi-
The property that the claimant states is his exclusive property.

Fourth. The presence of an informative poster is accredited, although it is referenced to
the repealed LO 15/1999 (LOPD), indicating the person in charge and an address to which
be governed (no zip code).

Fifth. None of the parties has documented the land or property
of which they are the owners, being the same as stated in the Police Report her-
hands and with the device, as stated, "aimed at the adjoining uninhabited area-
you to the house” (folio nº 3 Report nº ***REPORT.1 Local Police City Council
*** TOWN HALL.1).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

In the present case, the claim dated 02/22/21 is examined by me-
gave of which the inscription denounces the presence of a video-surveillance camera
installed by a family member “without the presence of an information poster” unaware of the operation
dissuasive character of the same (folio nº 1).

The Local Police-Town Hall *** TOWN HALL.1-- travels to the place of
the facts (01/22/21) although it cannot specify the “operationality” of the same or that
this affects the rights of third parties, although it reflects in the Minutes provided the presence of
the camera “oriented towards the uninhabited area adjoining the house”.

The facts denounced could imply an affectation to the content of art. 5.1 c)
RGPD (regulation currently in force) that provides: “personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”) (…)”.

Individuals are responsible for the installed video-surveillance systems to be
comply with current legislation, and must be able to prove such extremes.
We report to the competent authority.

Cameras installed by individuals must be oriented towards their private space.
vative avoiding the capture of private area of third parties without just cause.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the objective environment.
of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces.
contiguous buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

Likewise, in the case of false cameras, they must be oriented
to a private area, avoiding intimidation of neighboring neighbors who are unaware
know whether or not they process personal data.

It must have an informative poster indicating that it is a video-surveillance area.
gives, expressly mentioning the person responsible for the treatment, adjusting the same to the
provided in the current art. 22 LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018, December 5).

III

On 10/22/21 a new document is received from the claimant through which it proves
the presence of an informative badge, indicating the data controller and where
exercise rights, but it is a poster not adapted to the regulations
in force: current RGPD and not the repealed LO 15/1999, December 13.

The art. 22 section 4 of the current Organic Law 3/2018, December 5 provides:
“The duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood fulfilled by placing an informative device instead
sufficiently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the identity
responsibility of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in articles
15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the device
formative a connection code or internet address to this information”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

In his brief he argues that he has installed the camera for security reasons,

being the same directed towards a land that manifests is of “its ownership”.

It is recalled that in case of installation in an exclusively private area
the presence of sign(s) is not necessary, if in the case of capturing areas that
affect third parties or minimally public space.

After analyzing the screen impression, it is observed that it allows
capture a small portion of the adjoining road, although the distance between the camera
and the area to be recorded would not allow clear images to be obtained.

In relation to the "facts" subject to transfer, no affectation is observed in the area
reserved for the privacy of the claimant, such as his home, not entering
assess this body any other family-type dispute between the parties.

Article 89 of Law 39/2015 (October 1) LPAC provides:

“The investigating body will resolve the completion of the procedure, with a file of
the actions, without it being necessary to formulate the resolution proposal,
when in the procedure instruction it becomes clear that there is any
of the following circumstances

c) When the proven facts do not constitute, in a manifest way, an infringement

administrative (...)”.

Individuals can install video surveillance cameras for security purposes.
security of the dwelling, although they are directly responsible for ensuring that it conforms
to the current legislation, avoiding the affectation of the rights of third parties without cause
justified; being to some extent understandable that the presence of the same
increases the security of the property against hypothetical thefts that could affect it,
being a measure that can benefit its inhabitants.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, this body recommends the regularization of the cartel
to the regulations in force, as well as the minimum reorientation of the camera to the area
fencing of the farm, limiting the impact on the public road area adjacent to
the farm.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

IV

According to the above, it can be concluded that a "data processing" is not accredited
of the claimant in a private space of the same (eg adjoining dwelling),
limiting the collection to an area of land at the entrance to the house where
observe a gate, which may be justified by security in an access to the
same.

The parties are reminded that this body is not going to mediate
any kind of “family and/or personal” conflict between them, owing in their
If necessary, contact the competent judicial authority.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. and REPORT the result
of performances to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

938-26102021

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

