

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Compliance with the principles of personal data processing in the BACHELOR system (UOOU-2316/20)
Elementary School


The inspection of the elementary school in Prague 2 was carried out on the basis of the Office's inspection plan for the year 2020. The inspection began with the delivery of the notice of the start of the inspection on September 3, 2020, and ended on October 22, 2020, when the deadline for submitting objections expired. The inspection dealt with compliance with the principles, legality and transparency in the exercise of the rights of data subjects, the security of personal data processed in the BAKALÁŘI system and the roles of suppliers and the related duties of the administrator. The inspectors first focused on evaluating the information that the inspected person processes about data subjects in the BAKALÁŘI information system . They stated that this is personal data and that the controlled person is in the position of a personal data administrator. The auditors further evaluated the role of the processor, which is the supplier of the BACHELOR system, and the content of the concluded processing contract. It was stated that the processing contract meets all the requirements set out in Article 28, Paragraph 3 of the General Regulation. Furthermore, the legality of the processing of personal data processed in the information system BAKALÁŘI was assessed, i.e. the legal title of the processing. It was stated that the legal title of the processing is Act No. 561/2004 Coll. (Education Act). The inspection also dealt with the fulfillment of the information obligation. It was noted that the controlled entity has taken appropriate measures to provide data subjects with all information in a concise, comprehensible, transparent and easily accessible manner. The controlled person also fulfills his obligation to keep records of personal data processing activities in accordance with Article 30 of the General Regulation. Last but not least, the inspection was devoted in detail to the security of personal data and the fulfillment of the obligations set out in Article 32 of the General Regulation. Here too, there was no violation of the fulfillment of obligations. In conclusion, it was also stated that the inspected person fulfilled his obligation to appoint a personal data protection officer. In none of the eight inspection findings was there a violation of the general regulation.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Education > Compliance with the principles of personal data processing in the BACHELOR'S system (UOOU-2316 /20)Show current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



