

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Checking the legal title for the processing of personal data and other obligations according to the general regulation within the framework of customer programs (UOOU-00864/21)
Retailer


The subject of the inspection was compliance with obligations
controller of personal data under the General Regulation with a focus on compliance
obligations according to Article 5, Article 6, Article 12 to Article 22, Article 28, Article 30
and Article 32 when operating customer, discount and loyalty programs,
including the operation of the e-shop and the use of cookies.

The inspection revealed that the inspected person
processes personal data: on the basis of
consent to the processing of personal data pursuant to Article 6 paragraph 1 letter a) of the general regulation
(advertising and market research, contact details); due
conclusion and fulfillment of the contractual relationship within the framework of the customer program and z
the reason for the contractual relationship resulting from the online store, including management
customer account, i.e. according to Article 6, paragraph 1, letter b) general
ordinance; due
ensuring the protection of the rights and legally protected interests of the controlled person resting
especially in the necessity of establishing, enforcing or protecting legal claims in court or
other proceedings, in the framework of out-of-court proceedings pursuant to Article 6 paragraph 1 letter f) general
ordinance. The controlled person had
processed internal regulations in the documents "Information on protection
personal data", "Conditions for participation in the [customer] program", "Principles of processing
personal data" and "Business conditions" (Art. 2). These contained sufficient
information on the processing of personal data in the sense of Article 12 and information on rights
data subjects according to Article 13 et seq. of the general regulation. Internal
the regulations of the controlled person also contained sufficient information on protection
personal data and their security in the sense of Article 5 paragraph 1 letter f) of the general regulation. In the sense of Article 32 of the general regulation, she had
controlled person processed specific risks arising from the processing a
assessment of the impact on personal data protection. Access to individual databases
controlled persons have been logged.

The inspectors did not find in the conclusion of the inspection
no violation of general regulation.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Provision of goods and services > Inspection of legal title for processing personal data and others obligations according to the general regulation within customer programs (UOOU-00864/21)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



