
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07.10.2020
                                Mourning for Walter Rudolf With deep sympathy, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, and the employees of the authority have mourned the death of the former state data protection commissioner, Professor Dr. Walter Rudolph reacts. Professor Dieter Kugelmann says: "With Walter Rudolf, we have lost an extraordinary person, a great personality and a pioneer of data protection. With persuasiveness, objectivity and a sense of proportion, he campaigned for the personal rights of citizens to be protected. Two decades he acted in the spirit of data protection with a sense of proportion: He consistently orientated himself towards the fundamental right to data protection as an individual fundamental right, which he viewed early on as a manifestation of the human right to self-determination.He helped shape data protection in Rhineland-Palatinate and Germany and for He focused on safeguarding the freedom of the individual."Kugelmann continues: "Walter Rudolf was originally an international law expert, but he enjoyed and used the creative opportunities as a data protection officer and gave the authority a high reputation. He was interested in every one of our conversations right up to the end for questions from the D data protection. He convinced with his comprehensive knowledge and his clever and factual arguments. Throughout his life he remained skeptical when government agencies or private companies collected data on a large scale or made or wanted to make excessive queries. The fear of the surveillance state was not unreal for him. He did his part to limit spying. Walter Rudolf thus became an important defender of the right to informational self-determination for the people of Rhineland-Palatinate."Walter Rudolf died last week, on October 1, at the age of 89. He was near Posen in 1931 was born in West Prussia and, as a result of the Second World War, came to Verden an der Aller in 1946. After graduating from high school, he studied law in Kiel and Göttingen, habilitated in Tübingen, started as a law professor at the Ruhr University in Bochum and finally switched to the Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, where he taught public law, European and international law.He retired in 1999. He worked as State Secretary in the Rhineland-Palatinate Ministry of Justice from 1980 to 1987. From 1988 he was a representative of the state government in the data protection commission of the country elected by the data protection officer. He filled the part-time office for two legislative periods, until 2007.
                                return
                            



