1/8

 Procedure PS/00353/2021

RESOLUTION OF THE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Through an Agreement dated 07/19/21, the sanctioning procedure was initiated,
PS/0353/2021, instructed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency to Ms. A.A.A.,
with NIF.: ***NIF.1, (hereinafter, "the claimed party"), by virtue of a complaint
presented by Ms. BBB (hereinafter, "the complaining party") for alleged infringement
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16,
regarding the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the Treatment of
Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD); and of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights, (LOPDGDD) and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 05/21/20, you had entry to this Agency in writing, submitted by
the complaining party, in which it stated, among others, the following:

“My contract for the company I work for is part-time and I am also
collecting from Sepe a compensatory benefit for the hours worked in order to
be able to receive a full-time salary. Currently, like many
Spanish, my company requested and was approved an ERTE due to force majeure. I am the
sole employee. Given the complications that are taking place to be able to collect my
ERTE, I made some arrangements to be able to contact the Sepe and so I let it know to
the company.

They told me that it had to be the agency (who managed my ERTE) who had to
get in touch with Sepe to solve any problems that might arise.
I complained to the company, after a few days, if there was any news from the
agency and the company sends me some files via WhatsApp sent by the agency,
according to him, where the economic data, dates, deadlines, amounts
monthly ... of the compensatory benefit that I am receiving and no information about my
ERTE.

There is no written or verbal evidence where I authorize the agency that
provide these data so personal and completely unrelated to the company. I have not had
nor did he have any intention of sharing with the company that he was receiving a
provision since it belongs to my absolute privacy and yet the agency is
took care to let him know without my consent. The company believed that such data
that he had received was my ERTE data and I had to clarify that it was not what
I believed, something that angers me since, as I said before, it was not in my plans
tell it".

Along with the written claim, the following documentation was provided:

- Copy of WhatsApp message sent by "(...)" where there are two
documents with the SEPE logo, with the text “CONSULTATION OF RECEIPTS
OF PAYROLLS” and LAST PROVISION” respectively, with the dates
05/21/2020 and 05/21/2020 respectively.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

SECOND: On 10/07/20, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreement is issued for the admission of processing of the claim
presented, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD Law, when assessing possible
reasonable indications of a violation of the rules in the field of competences
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

THIRD: On 03/01/21, this Agency sent a request
information to the party complained against, under the investigative powers granted
to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the RGPD Regulation.

FOURTH: On 03/26/21, this Agency received a written response to the
request made, in which, among others, it was indicated:

1. That the exceptional situation caused by the
COVID-19 that has generated the actions that have given rise to this
complaint, as well as the pressing need of the claimant who needed to collect the
ERTE.

2. That the claimant's actions have been contradictory and have led to understand
that both this adviser and the contracting company, which was requested and authorized
to the consultancy to communicate the resolution of the ERTE to the complainant through the
company and/or where appropriate to both parties and for this they had to access the information
communicated in the SEPE section in which all the information related to the
benefits received by the worker.

3. That they understand that both this adviser and the employer are entitled to
process the data of the ERTE concession resolution as they are necessary
to carry out the necessary procedures in application of the legal obligations derived
of the application of extraordinary urgent measures to deal with the impact
economic and social of COVID-19, considers such a situation, for the purposes of suspension of
contracts, such as force majeure, and article 32 of Royal Decree 1483/2012 and 22.2
a) Royal Decree-Law 8/2020 and the applicable social security legislation.

4. That, due to the situation of collapse of the SEPE to make the payments of the
ERTES, the worker and the company contacted this consultancy to
Know the resolution of the ERTE concession.

5. That there is an express consent of the worker to this advice to
comply with this purpose that is deduced from email communications.

That the claimant makes communications to the company, SEPE and this advisor to
the ERTE resolution. In addition, both the company and the claimant require
to notify you as soon as you are aware of the ERTE resolution.

That these communications include the concepts charged by the claimant for
other types of benefits received.

That within an email sent to this advisor as to the company
include concepts that the worker considers should not be known by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

employer, specifically issues relating to the compatibility of the provision
for ERTE and non-contributory benefits of the claimant.

A copy of the email sent by the claimant on May 25 is provided
of 2020 9:14 sent to ***EMAIL.1 where an Excel file is referenced that
is attached, as well as screenshots that are also attached.

That the Excel file contains the following data referring to the claimant; Name
and surnames, DNI number, telephone number, bank account number, "Type of measure" where it is stated
“SUSPENSION”, among others. There is also a screenshot of
“QUESTION OF REQUESTS” where it states “there is no pending request for
processing”. A copy of the email sent by the claimant on the date
June 5, 2020 11:35 sent to ***EMAIL.1 and copied to ***EMAIL.2 where
refers to a request to be sent a copy of a payslip. I also know
refers to the fact that its benefit appears requested on 06/02/2020 and that it is
attach a screenshot.

That said screenshot contains the letterhead "REQUESTS CONSULTATION" and
exclusively the following data; “request date” with the value “06/02/2020”,
“Request status” with the value “APPROVED”, “Type of request”, “Type of
benefit". There is also a link to view the resolution of the request.
There is a copy of the "RESOLUTION APPROVAL OF BENEFITS BY
UNEMPLOYMENT” issued by the SEPE in the name of the claimant where they appear as
recognized period from 04/01/2020 to 07/02/2020”.

A copy of a payslip from RENTYA BOOKINGS, S.L. being the worker
claimant, with an accrued period from 03 to 03 31, 2020. There is no evidence that
said payroll appears as an attachment to the email dated June 5, 2020.

6. That in the resolution granting the ERTE and in the receipt documents of
payroll and last benefit include the same concepts as the claimant
considers that they should not be known by the employer.

7. “In our opinion, the main problem is that both in the resolution of the communiqué
by the SEPE and in the processing and verification of collection of the ERTE provision
both entrepreneur and adviser we can access the benefits charged by
any concept the complainant since they are included in the same document and
They appear in the same section of the SEPE page. And therefore if the complainant
request this procedure that implies access to the information contained in the SEPE
necessarily implies an express consent to access the company and this
labor advisor to the data and information on the benefits charged by the
complainant. Possibly the complainant was unaware of this fact, but this issue
It is not the responsibility of this consultancy or the company.”

A copy of the treatment order contract between RENT YA BOOKINGS,
SL as data controller and data processor signed and
dated February 2, 2019.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

FIFTH: On 07/19/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, a sanctioning procedure is initiated against the claimed party, for
alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to article 32 of the
RGPD, when informing third parties, personal data of the
claimant without legitimacy and/or authorization to do so.

SIXTH: Notification of the initiation agreement to the claimed party, the latter by means of a written
dated 07/27/21 made, in summary, the following allegations:

“In view of the resolution adopted by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data regarding the beginning of the Sanctioning Procedure, this party considers that the
The sanction to be imposed must be a warning in accordance with article 58.2 b)
of the RGPD taking into account in any case the following circumstances:

A).-The exceptional situation caused by COVID 19 that has generated the
actions that have given rise to this complaint.

B).- The need of the complainant who needed to collect the ERTE benefit

C).- In our opinion, the actions of the complainant in this matter have been
contradictory and has led both this Consultant and the company to understand
contracting party, to which the consultancy was requested and authorized to communicate the resolution
of the ERTE to the complainant through the company and/or, where appropriate, to both parties and
for this we had to access the information communicated in the section of the SEPE in
which contained all the information relating to the benefits received by the
worker.

D).- Remark that the sole purpose of this communication was to attend to the
request of the complainant and at no time did anyone process the data or
information that he was receiving a part-time benefit. None of
the parties did not look at that detail, but at the resolution of the ERTE concession, and at
In no case did the complainant inform us so that we could keep this in mind.
special circumstance. The sole purpose of this Consultancy was to resolve the concession
of the ERTE to the worker so that she could collect the benefit and put in
knowledge of the granting of the ERTE. The main objective was that the worker
receive the benefit as soon as possible.

E.-Condition of natural person of this part and that the infraction has not generated
any benefit to this adviser.

2 Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9, is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, "with administrative fines of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute violations
the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to this law
organic”. The LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates for prescription purposes the
“Infractions considered very serious

However, article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each authority of
control will have all the following corrective powers indicated below.
continued:(…) b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation; (…) d) order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of this
Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain period
specified; (…)”

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates in its
article 58.2 b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the treatments
personal data that do not meet your expectations. as noted
Previously, this infraction can be sanctioned with a warning.

Considering that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with the
provided in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden
for the claimed, in accordance with article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, being able to
proceed with the warning.

This part has made the following corrections and actions to ensure a
due diligence in technical and organizational measures to ensure a level
adequate security in the processing of personal data.
Specifically, the following corrective measures have been adopted:

A request has been sent to the employer of the affected to destroy and/or
delete any personal data of the complainant related to the information
subject of the claimant's complaint. In the employer's communication
certifies not having carried out any treatment of the data of the complainant object
of this claim. Guaranteeing its elimination and/or deletion. It is provided as
document nº1 and document nº2.

An organizational measure has been taken to ensure an adequate level of
security in the processing of personal data in the case of Management of
Personal Data for the processing of ERTES of employees. It is provided
as document no. 3 and is detailed below: The following is implemented
Procedure for the Management of Personal Data for the processing of
ERTE of employees.  In case of ERTE processing. This consultancy will manage
the processing of the ERTE of any employee prior communication from the employer
(client).  After the start of the application, the processing of the ERTE will be managed
following SEPE instructions including: -Periodic communications from the
periods of inactivity. -Presentation of the collective request for the provision of
company workers who go to the ERTE. -Each expired month, report that the
worker is still in ERTE - Communicate variations in the working day, inform days of
inactivity, sick leave, reincorporation of the worker to end the benefit,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

report vacations, layoffs, etc.  This advice will only refer the client
(Employee) the positive or negative resolution of the ERTE granting by the
SEPE and the necessary documentation and personal data required by the
SEPE during the ERTE.  In no case will the consultancy review and/or access (even
having authorization from the worker and/or the company) to the status of the provision of the
workers affected by ERTE, through the SEPE website.

In view of the corrective measures carried out by this party, we consider that the
RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates in its article 58.2
b) the possibility of resorting to a warning to correct data processing
personal data that do not meet your expectations. This offense can be
sanctioned with a warning. Considering that the administrative fine that could
fall in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.b) of the RGPD would constitute a
disproportionate burden for the claimed taking into account the circumstances that
The status of natural person of this claimed person is in the file and that the
infraction has not generated any benefit to this consultant. allowing item
58.2.b) of the RGPD proceed to the warning in the case that concerns us.

In its virtue I REQUEST: it is agreed to impose a sanction of warning to this
part in accordance with article 58.2 b) of the RGPD”.

SEVENTH: On 08/09/21, the proposal for
resolution, in which, it is proposed that, by the Director of the Spanish Agency of
Data Protection proceed to direct a "warning" to the claimed, for
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to the infringement of article 32 of the
RGPD, when informing third parties, personal data of the
claimant without legitimacy and/or authorization to do so.

EIGHTH: The Proposed Resolution has been notified to the respondent party, but no
received in this Agency no writing of allegations to the same, in the period
granted for the purpose.

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- According to the claimant, the personal data referring to his work situation has
been made available to the company where he works, by the person
claimed (management), without your express consent. In particular, this person had
communicated to the company where the claimant works, data referring to the
compensatory benefit received from the SEPE, when it was only authorized
to communicate the data regarding the collection of the ERTE, in which it was in
that moment the worker.

2º.- For his part, the person claimed, alleged in this regard, among others, that:

“The claimant's actions have been contradictory and have led to the understanding that
authorized the processing of your data; that it understands that it is entitled to treat
the data as they are necessary to carry out the necessary legal procedures; that
there is an express consent of the worker for this purpose, which is deduced
of the e-mail communications made; that in those communications
includes the concepts that the claimant receives for other types of benefits that
perceives. However, she defends herself by indicating that both the employer and herself

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

can access the benefits charged by the complainant for any concept
since they are included in the same document and appear in the same section of the
SEPE page and therefore, if the complainant requests this procedure that implies the
access to the information contained in the SEPE necessarily implies a
express consent of access to the company and this labor consultant to the data and
information on the benefits received by the complainant. Possibly the
complainant was unaware of this fact, but this issue is not the responsibility of this
consultancy or the company.

3º.- Due to these facts, a sanctioning procedure is initiated in this Agency against the party
claimed, for infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, by informing
third parties, personal data of the claimant without authorization, demonstrating with
This was due to a clear lack of diligence when applying the technical measures and
organizational structures that guarantee an adequate level of security in the treatment of
personal data, imposing an initial sanction of “warning”.

4º.- Notification of the initiation agreement to the complaining party, the latter in its allegations
requests that “(…) it be agreed to impose a warning sanction on this part of
in accordance with article 58.2 b) of the RGPD”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I.- Competition:

 
Is competent to resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, by virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the
GDPR Regulation, and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
LOPDGDD.

II.

In the present case, it has been verified that the personal data referring to your
employment status of the claimant had been made available to the company
where he works, by the requested person (the agency in charge of the
processing of the ERTE), without your express consent. In particular, this person
had communicated to the company where the claimant works, data referring to the
compensatory benefit received from the SEPE, when it was only authorized
to communicate the data regarding the collection of the ERTE.

These facts are constitutive of an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for
violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, where it states that personal data
will be: (...) f) treated in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational

The security that must be required in the processing of personal data comes
regulated in article 32.1 of the RGPD, where it is established that: “1. considering the
state of the art, the costs of application, and the nature, scope, context and
the purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of varying probability and severity for
the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person in charge and the person in charge of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a
adequate level of security, (...)”

In addition, article 5 of the LOPDGDD, on the "Duty of confidentiality", provides
that: 1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing, as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of it will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. two.
The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to the
duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations. 3. The
The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even when
the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

RESOLVES:

FIRST: SEND A WARNING, to Ms. A.A.A. with NIF.: ***NIF.1, for
infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in relation to the infringement of article 32 of the
RGPD, when informing third parties, personal data of the
claimant without the legitimacy and/or authorization to do so.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Ms. A.A.A. and the complainant about the
result of the claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Martí.
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

