Registration number:

NAIH / 2020/5553
Former case number: NAIH / 2019/346

Object:

partially granting the application
decision, ex officio procedure
terminator
decision
finding an infringement

The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter: the Authority) a
……………………………. (Hereinafter referred to as the Applicant)
Szemben against Google Ireland Ltd (Google Building
Gordon House, 4 Barrow St, Dublin, D04 E5W5, Ireland; hereinafter referred to as "Requested")
violated the obligation to provide information and was initiated ex officio by Google
Stakeholders in Hungary are concerned about AdWords
extended to the examination of general data management practices relating to the exercise of
in the data protection authority proceedings
Decision
1. The Authority shall grant the application in part and declare that: a
Applicant violated the Applicant's right of access by failing to provide a deadline
adequate information regarding the processing of the Applicant's "name" personal data a
Google AdWords. The Applicant thereby violated the processing of personal data
the free movement of such data and Directive 95/46 / EC
Regulation (EU) No 2016/679 repealing Directive
Data Protection Regulation) with regard to Article 15, Article 12 (3).
2. The Authority shall require that the Authority order the applicant to reply,
and examine the Applicant's general practice regarding the rights of the data subject,
rejects.
3. The Authority in connection with the Google AdWords service in Hungary
general data management practices relating to the exercise of the rights of data subjects
terminate the extended procedure of its own motion.
4. The Authority finds that it has exceeded the administrative deadline and therefore as such
provides that HUF 10,000, ie ten thousand forints, shall be indicated to the Applicant in writing
at your choice - pay by bank account or postal order.
5. The Authority further provides that during the proceedings on the applicant's side
incurred in connection with the exercise of access to documents in the amount of HUF 6,100, ie HUF 6,000
the costs of the proceedings incurred shall be borne by the Applicant.
There is no administrative appeal against the decision, but from the communication
by application to the Metropolitan Court within 30 days of
may be challenged in an administrative action. The application shall be submitted to the Authority,
electronically, which forwards it to the court together with the case file. Holding the hearing
must be indicated in the application. Not in full personal exemption
for the beneficiaries, the fee for the court review procedure is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is substantive
subject to the right to record duties. Legal representation in proceedings before the Metropolitan Court
obligatory.

2

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
Procedure and clarification of the facts

I.

1. In his application to the Authority on ……………………, the Applicant stated that as
concerned by Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation
You contacted the AdWords operator, the Applicant, electronically and as follows
requested information from him in connection with the processing of the personal data of the Applicant's name.
2. According to the Applicant, …………………… on the Google AdWords web
with a reference to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation
sent a request to exercise the right of access to the Applicant with the following content:
(i)

which ads, websites, advertisers are treated in the context of your name, such as
advertising keyword;

(ii) when and how many times Google’s Internet search engine made a search for your name
Google AdWords advertising;
(iii) if Google AdWords does not use your name as your advertising keyword
based on what algorithm, for what reason, as an ad for a given keyword,
when and how many times a Google AdWords ad was displayed to search for your name
related to Google web search.
3. Searching for the Applicant és and in his / her own name (the ……………………
untitled) Google's Internet search engine has shown ads that
…………………… are related to other service providers and therefore assume that a
his name is treated in conjunction with his profession and in automatic decision-making procedures
used.
4. Ads with ads-support@google.com and legal-notices@google.com
after several correspondence, the Applicant replied to the Applicant that they did not know
to tell which organizational unit could answer the above questions and therefore not
they can answer your questions.
5. In view of the above, the Applicant requested from the Authority the rights of the Applicant concerned
and the conviction of the controller
obligation to provide information.
6. On request, on the right to information and freedom of information
CXII of 2011 on the basis of Section 60 (1) of the Information Act (hereinafter: the Information Act)
an official procedure was initiated, which the Authority extended ex officio to Google AdWords
the rights of the data subjects in Hungary in connection with the service
to examine the general data management practice related to the exercise of the
on the basis of the individual request of the Applicant.
7. In order to clarify the cross-border nature of data processing, the general data protection
a procedure under Article 56 of that Regulation was necessary to decide which Member State
data protection authority is entitled to act as the main authority in the case and which are concerned
authorities. As foreign bodies had to be contacted, the Authority ……………………
suspended the present administrative procedure and Article 56 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
requested data protection supervision in accordance with paragraph 1
authority to state whether it intends to act as the main supervisory authority in the matter.

3

The Authority justified the question on the grounds that it is natural for a person residing in Hungary
relating to the exercise of the rights of a person who has lodged an application with the Authority
there are no data subjects in other Member States, so it is appropriate for the Authority to act
on the merits.
8. As a result of the procedure under Article 56 of the General Data Protection Regulation a
In its replies to the Authority, the Irish Data Protection Authority stated that Google
The Irish Privacy Authority is the primary authority for AdWords.
Furthermore, the Irish Data Protection Authority, as the main authority, is Article 56 of the General Data Protection Regulation
In accordance with paragraphs 3 and 5, it has decided that, for the reasons set out above, the Authority
may handle the request as the Irish Data Protection Authority does not wish to take action in this regard.
9. Following the clarification of jurisdiction set out above, the Authority will issue NAIH / 2019/346/10. number
ordering the suspension of the proceedings and the conduct of the proceedings
decided.
10. The Authority NAIH / 2019/346/11. In his order no., he called on the
Applicant, which is based on the certificate issued by Magyar Posta
He received it on ……………………, but no return receipt was received.
11. After inspecting the applicant's file, the Authority shall:
repeatedly called on the Applicant to make a statement, to which the Applicant
By letter from his legal representative.
12. The Applicant …………………… sent a substantive response to the Applicant's access
requesting the data used and indicating when, how many times, which
method, based on which results related to the Applicant's personal data were displayed
in your search engine.
13. The Applicant is not the data subject specified in the Applicant's data protection information
sent an online application form on the General Data Protection Regulation
His application under Article 15 and was therefore not sent to the department dealing with the exercise of the right concerned. THE
Applicant alleges that he was not forwarded to the wrong address due to an individual clerk error
received a request from the competent authorities and is not aware of a similar case.
14. According to the applicant in its reply, the Authority did not
has the power to examine its general data management practices.

II.

Applicable legal provisions

According to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Regulation shall apply to
the processing of personal data in a partially or fully automated manner, and
for the non-automated handling of data contained in a registry
which are part of a registration system or which are intended to be part of a registration system.
The Infotv. Section 2 (2)
the general data protection regulation in the provisions indicated therein
shall apply with the additions set out in
Infotv. Enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1)
To that end, the Authority shall, at the request of the data subject, initiate a data protection authority procedure and
may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings.

4

In order to conduct the official procedure, the Act no. Pursuant to Section 7 (1), Ákr. provisions of this Regulation
apply.
Infotv. Section 60 (2) and Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2) of the Data Protection Authority
The request to initiate proceedings is covered by the General Data Protection Regulation
in the case provided for in Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be submitted.
Pursuant to Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, other administrative or
without prejudice to judicial remedies, any person concerned shall have the right to lodge a complaint with a
supervisory authority, in particular where he has his habitual residence, place of employment or
in the Member State of the alleged infringement, if it considers that the
processing of personal data in breach of this Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 56 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, without prejudice to Article 55,
the center of activity or a single activity of the controller or processor
the supervisory authority of the place of business is entitled to act as the main supervisory authority
with regard to cross-border data processing by the controller or processor,
in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 60.
Pursuant to Article 12 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is unjustified
without delay, but in any case within one month of receipt of the request
inform the data subject in accordance with Articles 15 to 22. on the action taken in response to a request under Article.
Where appropriate, taking into account the complexity of the application and the number of applications, this shall be
this period may be extended by a further two months. The extension of the time limit is
the controller shall indicate the reasons for the delay from the date of receipt of the request
inform the data subject within one month. If the person concerned has submitted the application by electronic means
the information shall, as far as possible, be provided by electronic means, unless
concerned requests otherwise.
Pursuant to Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
receive feedback from the data controller regarding the processing of your personal data
is in progress and if such data processing is in progress, you are entitled to personal
access to data and the following information:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;
(c) the recipients or categories of recipients with whom the personal data are held
data have been or will be communicated, including in particular in third countries
recipients and international organizations;
(d) where applicable, the intended period for which the personal data will be stored or, failing that
possible criteria for determining this period;
(e) the data subject's right to request from the controller the personal data concerning him or her
rectification, erasure or limitation of the processing of such data and may object to such
against the processing of personal data;
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;
(g) if the data were not collected from the data subject, all available sources
information;
(h) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including
profiling as well as, at least in these cases, the logic used and
comprehensible information on the significance of such data processing,
and the expected consequences for the data subject.

5

Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), it was taken in a data protection official proceeding
In its decision, the Authority Data management specified in Section 2 (2)
defined in the General Data Protection Regulation in the context of
may apply legal consequences.
Infotv. 75 / A. Pursuant to Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority
exercise the powers set out in paragraph 1 in accordance with the principle of proportionality,
in particular by providing for the law or regulation on the processing of personal data
Requirements laid down in a binding act of the European Union
Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in particular by alerting the controller or processor.
Pursuant to Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, administrative fines are imposed by
referred to in Article 58 (2) (a) to (h) and (j), as the case may be
should be imposed in addition to or instead of measures. When deciding if it is necessary
to impose an administrative fine or to determine the amount of the administrative fine
in each case due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement, taking into account the nature of the infringement in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the data processing and the number of data subjects affected by the
the extent of the damage they have suffered and the damage they have suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the damage suffered by the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to alleviate
(d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account:
the technical and organizational measures it has taken pursuant to Articles 25 and 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) with the supervisory authority, remedy the breach and the breach may be negative
the degree of cooperation to mitigate its effects;
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the breach has been reported by the controller or processor and if
yes, in what detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, in the same
the measures referred to in Article 58 (2) have been ordered
compliance with the measures in question;
(j) whether the controller or processor has complied with Article 40
approved codes of conduct or an approved certification in accordance with Article 42
mechanisms; and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case,
for example, financial gain obtained as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
profit or loss avoided.

III.

Decision

1. The period considered
In the subject matter covered by the application, the examined data processing period is the Applicant
From the date of the first application of the data subject sent to the applicant (……………………)
until the date of reply to the request from the data subject ……………………).

6

The data processing period covered by the ex officio extension is the general data protection
from the entry into force of this Regulation (25 May 2018) and to the Requesting Authority
until the date of receipt of your application (……………………).
2. Data protection authority proceedings initiated upon request
As the Applicant filed on the Applicant általános, general data protection
The general has not provided a substantive response to the data subject's request under Article 15 of the Regulation
within one month within the meaning of Article 12 (3) of the Data Protection Regulation
the need to extend the deadline by a further two months and his reply to the
the Authority did not receive it within the extended deadline
found that the above conduct of the Applicant violated the general data protection
Article 12 (3) and Article 15 (1) of this Regulation.
In view of the fact that the Applicant has in the meantime complied with its obligation to provide information,
its obligation to comply with it has become devoid of purpose during the proceedings. For this reason, this part of the application
was rejected.
The Applicant shall inform Infotv. Section 60 (2) and Infotv. Section 2 (2) and
pursuant to Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may request an examination of the practice only if it is in the applicant's right or legitimate interest
directly affected by it, but no evidence or circumstance has arisen in the present proceedings,
such has not been proved or probable by the Applicant. Where the Authority:
Applicant's decision on general data management practices is a right or obligation
does not arise for the Applicant, the Applicant shall not be considered a customer in this respect
the Ákr. § (1) of the Act, or - as the Act no. Does not comply with Section 35 (1)
there is no need to submit an application in this respect. In view of the above, the application
this part was rejected.
3. Ex officio extended procedure
Contrary to the position of the Applicant, the Authority is of the opinion that the Authority is general
identified as the main authority as a result of the procedure under Article 56 of the Data Protection Regulation
In agreement with the Irish Data Protection Authority, it is entitled to investigate the request and the facts are complete
to fully explore. Part of this is whether it is an individual case or a system-wide problem
weave. Where the circumstances of an individual application indicate that it is general
practice problem is in the background, the Authority should be referred to it
decision to the competent authority. However, it is necessary to establish this
clarification of certain factual elements concerning general practice.
The Authority examined the Applicant's general practice only in so far as it:
has an impact on the exercise of the rights of data subjects residing in Hungary, and
it is necessary to determine whether the Irish Data Protection Authority is justified as the main authority
to initiate proceedings. Continuation of the Authority's proceedings on this issue
not justified on the basis of the information available, as the Requested is general
There have been no systemic breaches of its practice
evidence that the Authority would know the procedure of the Irish Data Protection Authority
such evidence by the means available to the Authority
not expected to continue.

7

4. Consideration of the legal consequence
Articles 12 (3) and 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the Authority’s statutory discretion
Acting in accordance with Infotv. § 61 (1) a), Infotv. 75 / A.
And Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation and the General
Article 58 (2) of the Data Protection Regulation.
In the Authority's view, the breach is due to all the circumstances of the case
shall not be considered as serious in relation to the finding of an infringement
further action would be needed.
Based on the above, the Authority has decided in accordance with the operative part.
5. Decision on costs
In the course of the procedure, the Authority exceeded the Infotv. 60 / A. § (1), the procedure
the administrative deadline of one hundred and twenty days in force at the time of Section 51 (b)
pays ten thousand forints to the Applicant - Selection of the Applicant to be indicated in writing
by bank transfer or postal order.
The Authority found that during the proceedings …………………… the Applicant
exercised his right of access to the file. In the process, he paid HUF 6,100 as a procedural cost
as a copy fee.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 124, the costs of proceedings are all costs incurred in the course of the proceedings.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 125 (1), unless otherwise provided by law, the costs of the proceedings
it is borne by those who have incurred them.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 126 (2) (b), in the dispute proceedings, the authority is the procedural
order the opposing client to pay the costs in the event of a decision granting the application.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 126 (3), if the decision grants the application in part, the authority
order the applicant client and the opposing client to bear the costs of the proceedings in a proportionate manner.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 129 (1), the procedural costs are determined by the authority
and decide on the costs to be borne and any reimbursement of the advance.
The Authority found that the Applicant's claim in respect of the violation of the data subject's rights
was for the most part thorough, the Authority is merely the proposed legal consequence
In view of the request, the applicant requested that the application be unfounded
to remedy the infringement. In view of all this a
The Authority did not find it necessary to reduce the proportionate fee for copying documents
ordered the Applicant to bear.
6. Any other business
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a) defines its jurisdiction
It covers the entire territory of Hungary.

8

The Ákr. Section 112 (1) and (2) and Section 116 (1) and Section 114 (1), respectively
the decision is subject to administrative review.
***
The rules of the administrative lawsuit are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Rules of Administrative Procedure (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3)
Under subparagraph (a) (aa), the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction.
A Kp. Pursuant to Section 27 (1), legal representation in administrative proceedings before the Tribunal
obligatory. A Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), the filing of an application is administrative
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of the act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. law
(hereinafter: the E-Administration Act), the customer is legal pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b)
representative is required to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee
the Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall exempt the person initiating the proceedings
half.
Budapest, July 16, 2020

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

