1/7

 File No.: PS/00624/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated November 30,
2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against NESTARES, A MINOR LOCAL ENTITY with NIF
P3900262A (hereinafter the claimed party).

The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows.

The claimant states that he exercised the right to limit the treatment of his
personal data having been sent a letter with your personal data to another
person, without receiving the legally established response. Likewise,
states that the entity claimed has not appointed a Data Protection Delegate
Data.

Relevant documentation provided by the complaining party:

Email exercising the right to limit your personal data with
dated March 6, 2019 addressed to the Nestares Neighborhood Board.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on January 29, 2021, said claim was transferred to
the party claimed, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform this Agency in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

No response to this letter has been received.

THIRD: On March 11, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

Requested to the claimant to present in this Agency the document that states
has been delivered to a third party and identifying data of the person who received said
document, dated September 1, 2021 is received at this Agency, written
sent by the claimant attaching a letter dated June 12, 2018 in the
that there is a disagreement between the claimant and the person claimed for a local matter and
in which your personal data actually appears.

Requested information from the respondent about the causes that motivated the delivery of the
communication referred to a third person, dated December 21, 2021
is received in this Agency, written of allegations sent by the Delegate of
Data Protection (hereinafter, DPD) stating the fact of sending the letter
mentioned in the claim to a third party, due to a specific error of the person
that he was enveloping the communications to the neighbors.

They add that they have taken measures to prevent events such as the one claimed from being
can return to produce giving instructions so that communications are not doubled
and inserted into the envelope until verifying that the communication and the envelope are
They refer to the same person.

In relation to the request for limitation of treatment, this DPD informs that it does not
can ensure the reason why the right of limitation was not met since the
facts are prior to the election of the current President of the Neighborhood Board and
also to the appointment of CONSULTANCY X3 S.L. as Protection Delegate

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

of City Council Data of *** TOWN HALL.1 and, until it has received
this communication, they had no knowledge of what happened.

It has been confirmed that the City Council of ***AYUNTAMIENTO.1 did not have
any knowledge of the facts.

On the other hand, it is not observed that any of the requirements established
in article 18.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of April 27, 2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data,
on the conditions to obtain from the person in charge of the treatment the limitation of the
data processing.

FIFTH: On February 1, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified
in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On March 31, 2022, a resolution proposal is addressed to the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, so that the
FILE of this sanctioning procedure against NESTARES, LOCAL ENTITY
MINOR, with NIF P3900262A, due to the facts that are the object of this
sanctioning procedure prescribed, in accordance with current legislation.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The respondent has sent a letter on June 13, 2018 with the
personal data of the claimant to a third party without their consent and without cause
legitimacy for said communication.

SECOND On February 9, 2022, the agreement to initiate this
sanctioning procedure, giving the claimed party a period of ten days to
submit claims to it.

THIRD: The receipt of the letter object of this appeal is dated June 13,
2018, and the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure was notified on 9
February 2022.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

Therefore, more than three years have elapsed since the receipt of the letter and the
notification of the agreement to initiate this procedure.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and as established in articles 47,
48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of
Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that “personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party (“lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
longer than necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the
Personal data may be kept for longer periods provided that it is
processed exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures that
This Regulation is imposed in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
interested party (“limitation of the retention period”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of
section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

In the present case, the claimant states that he exercised the right of limitation of
processing of your personal data after a letter was sent with your data
to another person by the claimed entity.

The data protection delegate of the claimed entity responds that the facts
denounced must have been the consequence of a punctual error.

It is also indicated that measures have been taken to prevent events such as the
claimed cannot be produced again by giving instructions so that the
communications are not folded and inserted into the envelope until verifying that the
communication and the envelope refer to the same person.

In relation to the request for limitation of treatment, the protection delegate of
data of the claimed entity states that it cannot ensure the reason why
the right of limitation was not heeded since the facts are prior to the election
of the current President of the Neighborhood Board and also to the appointment of
CONSULTANCY X3 S.L. as Data Protection Delegate.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

IV

Article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

v

Thus, it must be taken into account that, in this case, the initial agreement
dates from February 1, 2022, this being notified on February 9, 2022.

Therefore, since the object of the claim is the receipt of a letter dated June 13
of 2018, such facts are prescribed according to article 72.1 a) of the
LOPDGDD, indicated in the foundation of law IV.

Therefore, after learning of these facts, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and claimed.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

