1/17

 Procedure No.: PS/00431/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 09/22/2019, Ms. A.A.A., with DNI ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
claimant), represented by D. B.B.B., with DNI ***NIF.2, filed a claim with
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The claim is directed against the
entity ESTACIONAMIENTOS Y SERVICIOS, S.A.U., with CIF A28385458 (in
hereinafter PARKING AND SERVICES), a company that provides parking services
management of parking lots and car parks for the
 TOWN HALL OF
***LOCATION.1, with CIF P1814200J
(hereinafter, CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCATION.1 or claimed entity). The grounds on which the claim is based are,
in short, the following:

On 11/05/2018, the staff of the entity PARKING AND SERVICES
filed a complaint against the claimant for an infraction in the Zone of
Regulated Parking (ORA) of ***LOCALIDAD.1, which gave rise to the
interposition of a sanction by the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1. Through
writ of 02/12/2019, the claimant requested the aforementioned City Council to annul the
penalty procedure.

Subsequently, on 03/22/2019, the claimant, acting through her
representative, filed a claim in the same sense against the entity
PARKING AND SERVICES, using the form called
“Complaints and Claims Sheet” of the Junta de Andalucía. This form is
accompanied by a document in which the claimant explains the reasons for her
complaint, specifies your request (annulment of the fine), and, as another, exercises your right to
the limitation of the treatment of all your personal data that works in
PARKING LOTS AND SERVICES, in opposition to its deletion or deletion
while the allegations filed against the procedure were resolved
related penalty.

The claimant attaches a copy of this document addressed to PARKING AND
SERVICES, which is outlined in the Fifth Proven Fact.
 
Based on the facts revealed, the claimant adds that it constitutes the
object of the claim made before this Agency the lack of attention to the right
requested, on which it has not received any response from
PARKING AND SERVICES. He adds that he considers that this entity does not
offers sufficient guarantees as the person responsible for the processing of personal data, and
that his inaction seriously violates his rights in terms of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

Data Protection.

Likewise, it states that, on 06/12/2019, it also filed a claim against
PARKING AND SERVICES before the Municipal Information Office at
Consumer (OMIC) of ***LOCATION.1 due to lack of response to the "Data Sheet"
claims” presented in March of that same year (provides a copy of the supporting document
of registration, but not the written claim).

SECOND: On 10/15/2019, the claim was transferred to
PARKING AND SERVICES for analysis and communication to the claimant
of the decision adopted in this regard and to inform this Agency about the
issues stated therein.

On 11/14/2019, PARKING AND SERVICES responded to the aforementioned transfer
exposing the following:

On 02/02/2001, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 and the entity
PARKING AND SERVICES, the latter as a service provider,
signed a service contract for the comprehensive management of car parks in
***LOCATION.1.

The regulations of Public Administration Contracts in force at the time of
the contract did not contain any reference to the protection of personal data. In
Instead, the current Law 9/2017, of November 8, on Public Sector Contracts, yes
indicates that, in the event that the contracting implies the contractor's access to
personal data for the treatment of which the entity is responsible
contracting party, the latter will be considered the data processor.

Pursuant to this rule, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 is the
responsible for treatment and PARKING AND SERVICES intervenes as
in charge of the treatment.

Adds PARKING AND SERVICES that, on 08/20/2008, presented
before the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 a proposal to regularize the
situation regarding the treatment of personal data that the service of
comprehensive management of car parks in ***LOCALIDAD.1, which was never signed by
the aforementioned local entity.

In relation to the claim made before this Agency, PARKING AND
SERVICES states that, on 04/04/2019, it responded to the complaint raised
by the claimant on 03/22/2019, indicating that she should go to the CITY HALL
OF *** LOCATION.1, both in relation to the penalty for parking violation
as in relation to the right to limitation of treatment, as this
City Council the competent to resolve the sanctioning procedure and the entity
responsible for the treatment.

Despite indicating that the right to limitation of treatment must be answered by
the City Council, the entity PARKING AND SERVICES indicates that this
right was not exercised in accordance with the provisions of article 18 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD) and in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

Guide for the Citizen of the AEPD, considering that the treatment carried out
the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 is lawful and necessary for the fulfillment of
the legal obligation of the person in charge, who has incurred a sanctioning procedure
against the claimant.

Lastly, it indicates that it has transferred the claim to the City Council and
that the treatment order agreement is being updated.

Provides a copy of the response addressed to the claimant on 04/04/2019, related to the
complaint made by it on 03/22/2019. It is found that, despite
informed by PARKING AND SERVICES in its written response to this
Agency, the answer given to the complainant does not make any reference to the right to
treatment limitation. The text of this answer is summarized in the
Proven Fact Sixth.

THIRD: On 02/19/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant.

FOURTH: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the RGPD, and in accordance
with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

1. On 08/02/2020, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 refers to this
Agency the following information:

The requested City Council informs that it is unaware of the reason why the
proposal made by PARKING AND SERVICES in 2008 to
regularize the situation regarding the processing of personal data entailed by the
comprehensive management service for the ***LOCALIDAD.1 car parks, awarded by
public contracting, although there is proof of the documentary entry record entry
(not the documents themselves). Alleges as justification of the indicated
previously the documentary treatment in paper format of that moment, the
subsequent death of the head of its General Secretariat and the change of
municipal officials.

The City Council presents as evidence a copy of the "Agreement of the person in charge of the
processing of personal data on behalf of the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1”,
dated 12/04/2019, listed as an annex to the service provision contract
signed in 2001 between PARKING AND SERVICES and the CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCATION.1. Of the statements and stipulations contained in this Agreement, it is
those that are listed in the Seventh Proven Fact stand out.

Likewise, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1
informs that, as of
01/16/2018, contracted the services of a company to carry out the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

audit, consulting and implementation services in matters of "LOPD" and RGPD,
including the implementation of the National Security Scheme, biennial audit
required by the "LOPD", consultancy and implementation and adaptation to the "LOPD" and
adaptation to the RGPD (provide a copy of this contract).

2. On the other hand, the AEPD Inspection Services report that, as of the date
11/16/2020, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALIDAD.1 had not communicated to this
Agency the appointment of a Data Protection Officer.

FIFTH: On 02/17/2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the CITY COUNCIL OF
*** LOCATION.1, for alleged violations of articles 18 and 28.3 of the RGPD,
typified, respectively, in articles 83.5.b) and 83.4.a) of the same Regulation;
stating in said agreement that the sanction that could correspond would be
warning, without prejudice to what results from the investigation.

SIXTH: Once the aforementioned start-up agreement has been notified,
 TOWN HALL OF
***LOCATION.1 submitted a brief of allegations, in which it requests the filing of the
actions according to the following considerations:

 the

1. The claimant has not exercised before the City Council the right to limit the
treatment of your data. He only submitted a "Claim Sheet" against
the entity PARKING AND SERVICES in which, among other issues,
It stated verbatim “to exercise the treatment of all your personal data
opposing its deletion or deletion”, requesting the concessionaire to adopt
the opportune measures that guarantee said end. This claim form is
presented at the Municipal Office of Consumption, for the purposes provided in the regulations
sectorial.

No further news in this regard until 01/21/2020, the date on which the claimant
resubmits a letter to the Municipal Consumer Office requesting the initiation of
sanctioning procedure against the service concessionaire.

Furthermore, dated March 22, PARKING AND SERVICES
sends a response to the complaint made by the claimant, in which it communicates that it is
the City Council is responsible for the treatment before which you must exercise your rights
in terms of data protection. Despite this, no application was ever made.
any about it.

Nor did the concession company notify the City Council of the request for
limitation.

2. The application submitted to PARKING AND SERVICES does not meet the
requirements required by the RGPD. Although the right had been exercised before the
CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1, a generic request in which it states
“exercise the treatment of all your personal data opposing its deletion or
suppression” is not enough to carry out any action.

Firstly, because the right to restrict processing is not a right
absolute, but its exercise can be considered when the person challenges the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

accuracy of your personal data, until that request is resolved; and if the data
were processed unlawfully and the data subject opposes the deletion and requests the restriction
instead; the company no longer needs the personal data, but the person needs
that you keep them to establish, exercise or defend a legal claim; or when
the person has objected to the processing of their data under article 21 of the
GDPR and the company is considering whether its legitimate reasons prevail over those
of the person.

In this case, with the request made it is not possible to know what the claimant is asking for, nor
has proven the concurrence of any of these circumstances.

3. In relation to the violation of article 28.3 of the RGPD, the
CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 that the contract with PARKING AND
SERVICES for the comprehensive management of car parks was formalized on
02/02/2001, when there was no specific regulation on the procedure for the
treatment and protection of personal data between the current
responsible and in charge of the treatment.

He admits that, on 08/20/2008, PARKING AND SERVICES presented a
written before the City Council, but indicates that he has no record of its content
and processing. At that time the registration and entry of documents was still done
in paper format and they were not scanned or digitally archived.
In addition, the recipient that appears in the entry was the owner of the Secretariat
General, who ceased to hold that position due to death.

Finally, it indicates that, on 12/04/2019, the CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCALIDAD.1 and the repeated contractor signed an Agreement to Order
Treatment of Personal Data.

SEVENTH: On 08/05/2021, the available information is accessed through the
website of the Council for Transparency and Data Protection of the Junta de Andalucía and
it is verified that the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 has notified the aforementioned
entity the designation of a Data Protection delegate.

EIGHTH: On 08/11/2021, a resolution proposal was formulated in the sense
following:

1. That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection addresses
warning against the claimed entity, for infractions of articles 18 and
28.3 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5 b) and 83.4.a) of the same Regulation,
respectively.

2. That the claimed entity be required so that, within the period determined,
adopt the necessary measures to adapt its actions to the regulations of
protection of personal data, with the scope expressed in the Foundations of
Rights of the proposed resolution.

NINTH: Once the requested entity has been notified of the aforementioned resolution proposal, the
term granted to it to formulate allegations elapses without this
Agency has received any written.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 02/02/2001, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 and the
entity PARKING AND SERVICES, the latter as provider of
services, signed a service contract for the comprehensive management of the
car parks in *** LOCATION.1. The aforementioned contract does not include any stipulation
regarding the protection of personal data.

SECOND: On 08/20/2008, PARKING AND SERVICES presented
before the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 a proposal to regularize the
situation regarding the treatment of personal data that the service of
comprehensive management of car parks in ***LOCATION.1. This proposal was never
formalized by the aforementioned entities.

THIRD: On 11/05/2018, the staff of the entity PARKING AND
SERVICES filed a complaint against the claimant for an infraction in the Zone of
Regulated Parking (ORA) of ***LOCALIDAD.1, which gave rise to the
interposition of a sanction by the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1.

FOURTH: On 02/12/2019, the claimant requested the aforementioned City Council to
annulment of the sanctioning procedure initiated on the occasion of the complaint
outlined in the Third Proven Fact and the refund of the amount collected.

FIFTH: On 03/22/2019, the claimant filed a claim with the entity
PARKING AND SERVICES, using the form called
“Complaints and Claims Sheet” of the Junta de Andalucía. This form is
accompanied by a document in which the claimant explains the reasons for her
complaint, specifies your request (annulment of the fine), and, as another, exercises your right to
the limitation of the treatment of all your personal data that works in
PARKING SPACES AND SERVICES, with opposition to their deletion or deletion. In
In relation to the exercise of the right of limitation, said document indicates:

“Another yes I say,
Through this writing, in application of current regulations on personal data protection
and by virtue of the rights that assist him, this party comes to exercise his right to limitation
of the treatment of all your personal data opposing its deletion or deletion,
this concessionaire company, as the data controller, must adopt the measures
opportune that guarantee such end”.

SIXTH: On 04/04/2019, PARKING AND SERVICES responded to
the complaint filed by the claimant on 03/22/2019. The text of this reply is
following:

“In relation to your claim on March 22, 2019, I inform you that, in the event of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

have received a notification of complaint for violation of the regulations of the Service of
Limited Parking, you must make the allegations you deem pertinent before the body
Instructor of the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1, providing the cancellation ticket, which is
who decides the case. Likewise, it informs you that there is no record in our files of the
copy of the cancellation ticket provided; if so, the notice of
complaint".

SEVENTH: On 12/04/2019, the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 and
PARKING AND SERVICES formalized an annex to the contract for the provision of
services of 02/02/2001, outlined in the First Proven Fact, called
“Agreement of the person in charge of the processing of personal data on behalf of the
Town Hall of ***LOCATION.1”.

This Agreement identifies the City Council as the data controller and
PARKING AND SERVICES as in charge of the treatment in the activity
referred to the public service of integral management of the car parks of
***LOCATION.1, operation of the area regulated by parking meters.

In the third stipulation (3.6) of the agreement, it is established that the person in charge of the
treatment will not meet the data protection rights on behalf of the
responsible for the treatment, although it will transfer it within 72 hours
business/working days any request you may receive.

In the fourth stipulation of the agreement (4.2.5 and 4.2.6) it is established that the responsible
of the treatment will have adequate mechanisms for the exercise of the rights
regarding the protection of personal data due to its treatment activity, as well as
as procedures that allow responding to the exercise of said rights in the
legally established deadlines.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

The rights of individuals regarding the protection of personal data are
regulated in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD and 13 to 18 of the LOPDGDD. I know
contemplate the rights of access, rectification, deletion, opposition, right to
limitation of treatment and right to portability.

The formal aspects related to the exercise of these rights are established in the
articles 12 of the RGPD and 12 of the LOPDGDD.

Article 12 “Transparency of information, communication and modalities of
exercise of rights” of the RGPD establishes the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

"one. The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the interested party
all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any communication with
in accordance with articles 15 to 22 and 34 regarding the treatment, in a concise, transparent,
intelligible and easily accessible, in clear and simple language, in particular any information
specifically targeted at a child. The information will be provided in writing or by other
means, including, if applicable, by electronic means. When requested by the interested party, the
Information may be provided verbally as long as the identity of the interested party is proven.
By other means.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their rights under
of articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph 2, the person responsible
will not refuse to act at the request of the data subject in order to exercise their rights under
Articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you are unable to identify the
interested.

3. The data controller will provide the interested party with information regarding their actions
on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, and, in any case, in the
period of one month from receipt of the request. This period may be extended for another
two months if necessary, taking into account the complexity and number of requests. The
responsible will inform the interested party of any of said extensions within a month to
from receipt of the request, indicating the reasons for the delay. When the interested
submit the application electronically, the information will be provided electronically.
electronic when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be provided in another way.
mode."

4. If the person in charge of the treatment does not process the request of the interested party, he will inform him without
delay, and no later than one month after receipt of the request, of the reasons for
its non-action and the possibility of presenting a claim before a control authority
and to exercise legal actions.

5. The information provided under articles 13 and 14 as well as all communication and
any action carried out under articles 15 to 22 and 34 will be free of charge.
When the requests are manifestly unfounded or excessive, especially due to
its repetitive nature, the data controller may: a) charge a reasonable fee in
depending on the administrative costs incurred to facilitate the information or communication
or perform the requested action, or b) refuse to act on the request. The responsible
of the treatment will bear the burden of demonstrating the manifestly unfounded or
excessive request.

6. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 11, when the data controller has
reasonable doubts in relation to the identity of the natural person who makes the request to which
referred to in articles 15 to 21, you may request that additional information be provided
necessary to confirm the identity of the interested party.

7. The information that must be provided to the interested parties under articles 13 and 14
may be transmitted in combination with standardized icons that allow the provision of
easily visible, intelligible and clearly legible form an adequate overview of the
planned treatment. The icons that are presented in electronic format will be legible
mechanically.

8. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 92
in order to specify the information to be presented through icons and the
procedures for providing standardized icons”.

For its part, article 12 “General provisions on the exercise of rights”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

of the LOPDGDD, in sections 2, 3 and 4, adds the following:

"two. The person responsible for the treatment will be obliged to inform the affected party about the means at its disposal.
disposition to exercise the corresponding rights. Media should be easily
accessible to the affected. The exercise of the right may not be denied for the sole reason
to choose the affected by another means.
3. The person in charge may process, on behalf of the person in charge, the requests for exercise
formulated by those affected by their rights if this is established in the contract or legal act
that link them.
4. Proof of compliance with the duty to respond to the request to exercise their rights.
rights formulated by the affected party will fall on the person responsible”.

On the other hand, article 28 of the RGPD establishes that when a treatment is carried out
of data on behalf of a person in charge of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment
“will assist the person in charge… so that he can fulfill his obligation to respond
to requests that have as their object the exercise of the rights of the interested parties
established in Chapter III”. This obligation must be stipulated in the contract or act
that binds the person in charge with respect to the person in charge (section 3 of the aforementioned
article 28 of the RGPD).

In accordance with the provisions of these rules, the data controller
must arbitrate formulas and mechanisms to facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their
rights, which will be free (without prejudice to the provisions of articles 12.5 and 15.3
of the GDPR); and must give instructions to the person in charge of the treatment, if any,
to send you the requests you receive or to process them conveniently,
if so provided in the contract or legal act that binds them. Also, the
responsible for the treatment or the person in charge, where appropriate, are obliged to respond
requests made no later than one month, unless they can show that
they are not in a position to identify the interested party; as well as to express their reasons
in case they do not respond to the request.

From the foregoing, it follows that the request for the exercise of rights made by the
The interested party must be answered in any case, falling on the person in charge
proof of compliance with this duty.

This obligation to act is not enforceable when the data controller
can demonstrate that it is not in a position to identify the interested party (in cases
referred to in article 11.2 of the RGPD). In cases other than those provided for in this
article, in which the data controller has reasonable doubts in relation to
with the identity of the applicant, may require additional information necessary to
confirm that identity.

In this regard, Recital 64 of the RGPD is expressed in the following terms:

“(64) The controller must use all reasonable measures to verify the
identity of data subjects requesting access, in particular in the context of services
online and online identifiers. The person in charge must not keep personal data with
the sole purpose of being able to respond to possible requests”.

Regarding the right to limitation of treatment, the RGPD stipulates in its
article 18 the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

"one. The interested party shall have the right to obtain from the controller the limitation of the
data processing when any of the following conditions are met:

a) the interested party challenges the accuracy of the personal data, during a period that allows the
responsible for verifying the accuracy of the same;
b) the treatment is illegal and the interested party opposes the deletion of the personal data and
request instead the limitation of its use;
c) the person in charge no longer needs the personal data for the purposes of the treatment, but the
interested party needs them for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims;
d) the interested party has objected to the processing under article 21, paragraph 1, while
it is verified if the legitimate reasons of the person in charge prevail over those of the interested party.

2. Where the processing of personal data has been limited pursuant to paragraph 1, such
Data may only be processed, with the exception of its conservation, with the
consent of the interested party or for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims,
or with a view to protecting the rights of another natural or legal person or for reasons of
important public interest of the Union or of a certain Member State.

3. Any interested party who has obtained the limitation of processing in accordance with section 1
will be informed by the person in charge before the lifting of said limitation”.

As the owner of your personal data, the interested party affected by the
treatment can exercise before the person in charge of the treatment this new right to
the limitation of the treatment when any of the indicated conditions are met.

The present case is referred to the treatment of data for infractions in the Zone of
Regulated Parking (ORA) of *** LOCATION.1, consequence of a
complaint made by the entity ESTACIONAMIENTOS Y SERVICIOS, which manages
these services by virtue of a contract formalized with the CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCATION.1. Considering this contractual relationship, the aforementioned City Council
intervenes as the entity responsible for the processing of personal data and the
service provider indicated as in charge of the treatment.

The complaint outlined and the consequent opening of a sanctioning procedure and
imposition of a fine gave rise to the presentation, by the
denounced/sanctioned (the claimant in this proceeding), to the
presentation of various claims before the two entities involved with the
object that that procedure and the sanction were annulled.

Likewise, it is clear that the claimant, on the occasion of the filing of one of those
claims for the annulment of the sanction, he formally addressed the entity
PARKING LOTS AND SERVICES exercising their right to limit the
treatment of all your personal data, "opposing its deletion or deletion".

The exercise of this right was not answered in any way by the entity
responsible for the treatment, that is, by the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCATION.1.
Not even this City Council had arranged the mechanisms and procedures
necessary to meet the exercise of rights by citizens, in the sense of
that he had not given precise instructions to the person in charge of the treatment on
how to act before such requests, in accordance with the provisions of the precepts above
reviewed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

On this issue, PARKING AND SERVICES, in its response to the procedure
transfer of the claim, stated that he answered the exercise of the right
indicating to the claimant that she should go to the Town Hall. However, this
response, which is outlined in the Sixth Proven Fact, did not make any
reference to the limitation of data processing requested.

It has also been alleged that the request was not exercised in due form or that it was not
it was appropriate to access the request, as the applicant had not accredited the concurrence
of any of the foreseen causes. This fact, even if true, does not allow the
responsible for leaving the request made unanswered, as if it had not been
produced, since said entity is obliged, as stated, to admit the
request regardless of the means through which it is formulated, to process the
same, demanding the corresponding correction if necessary, and to explain the
reasons for its non-action, if it considers that this is appropriate.

In any case, contrary to what was stated by the
 TOWN HALL OF
*** LOCATION.1, it is known that the request was made before the person in charge of the
treatment, which is obliged to assist the person in charge in its processing; exposed of
concrete form its object ("By means of this writing, in application of the current regulations
in protection of personal data and by virtue of the rights that assist you, this
party comes to exercise their right to limit the processing of all their data
personal opposing its deletion or deletion…”); and had cause in the
claims filed by the claimant against the sanction for violation of the
parking regulations.

Consequently, in accordance with the exposed evidence, the aforementioned facts
violate the provisions of article 18 of the RGPD. This non-compliance entails
commission of an offense typified in section 5 b) of article 83 of the RGPD, which
under the heading “General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines”
provides the following:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section
2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company,
of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual global turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

(…)

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, the LOPDGDD in its article 74 c), "Infringements
considered mild”, states the following:

“The remaining infractions of a merely character are considered minor and will prescribe after a year.
of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83 of the Regulation (EU)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

c) Failure to respond to requests to exercise the rights established in articles 15 to 22
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless the provisions of article
72.1.k) of this organic law”.

III

Secondly, the CITY COUNCIL OF *** LOCALITY.1 is charged with the violation
of article 28 of the RGPD, “In charge of the treatment”, section 3, which establishes the
following:

"3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act in accordance with the
Law of the Union or of the Member States, which binds the person in charge with respect to the
responsible and establishes the object, duration, nature and purpose of the treatment, the
type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the obligations and rights of the
responsable. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in particular, that the person in charge:

a) will process personal data only following documented instructions of the
responsible, including with respect to transfers of personal data to a third country or
an international organisation, unless required to do so under Union law
or of the Member States that applies to the person in charge; in such a case, the person in charge will inform the
responsible for that legal requirement prior to treatment, unless such Law prohibits it by
important reasons of public interest;
b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data have
committed to respecting confidentiality or are subject to an obligation of
confidentiality of a statutory nature;
c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;
d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another person in charge of the
treatment;
e) will assist the person in charge, taking into account the nature of the treatment, through measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures, whenever possible, so that it can comply with
their obligation to respond to requests that have as their object the exercise of rights
of the interested parties established in chapter III;
f) will help the person in charge to guarantee the fulfillment of the obligations established in the
articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment and the information to
disposal of the manager;
g) at the choice of the person in charge, will delete or return all personal data once
ends the provision of treatment services, and will delete existing copies unless
that the conservation of personal data is required by virtue of the Law of the Union or of
the member states;
h) will make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to demonstrate the
compliance with the obligations established in this article, as well as to allow and
contribute to the performance of audits, including inspections, by the person in charge or
another auditor authorized by said person in charge.

In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the person in charge will inform
immediately to the controller if, in his opinion, an instruction violates this
Regulation or other provisions on data protection of the Union or of the
Member states".

These specific obligations may be supervised by the authorities of
data protection, without prejudice to the control that may be carried out in relation to
with compliance with the Regulation or the LOPDGDD by the person responsible for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

treatment.

In accordance with article 28 of the RGPD, the person in charge and the person in charge of
data processing must regulate data processing in a contract or act
legal that binds them; that contract or legal act must establish the object, the
duration, nature and purpose of the processing, the type of personal data and
categories of interested parties, the obligations and rights of the controller, etc.

In this case, the entities CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 and
PARKING AND SERVICES, dated 02/02/2001, signed a contract
of services for the integral management of car parks in ***LOCALIDAD.1 that does not
included no stipulation regarding the protection of personal data. Is
The situation continued until 12/04/2019, the date on which both entities
formalized an annex to the service provision contract dated 02/02/2001,
called "Agreement of person in charge of the processing of personal data on behalf of
of the City Council of ***LOCALIDAD.1”, in which the City Council is identified as
responsible for the treatment and to PARKING AND SERVICES as
in charge of the treatment in the activity referred to the public service of integral management
from the car parks of ***LOCATION.1.

The need to formalize the performance of processing on behalf of third parties
by means of a writing, or in any way that allows to prove its celebration and
content, was already regulated in the Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
Protection of Personal Data (LOPD).

Therefore, the breach of this obligation by the aforementioned entities, does not
It is justified by the changes produced in the City Council staff or in the
managers of the corporation.

Consequently, in accordance with the exposed evidence, the aforementioned facts
represent a violation of the provisions of article 28.3 of the RGPD, typified as
violation of article 83.4 a) of the RGPD, which establishes the following:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and
43;”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, the LOPDGDD in its article 73 k), "Infringements
considered serious”, states the following:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

k) Entrust data processing to a third party without the prior formalization of a contract or
another written legal act with the content required by article 28.3 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

IV

Notwithstanding what is stated in the previous Legal Foundations, article 83.7
of the RGPD provides that, without prejudice to the corrective powers of the authorities of
control under Article 58(2), each Member State may establish
rules on whether and to what extent administrative fines can be imposed on
public authorities and bodies established in that Member State.

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment”, establishes the following:

"one. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments of which
are responsible or in charge:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions of the
autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the autonomous communities
and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or dependent on the
Public administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are related
with the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
I) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 commit any of the
the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the authority of
protection of data that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning them with
warning. The resolution will also establish the measures to be adopted so that
stop the behavior or correct the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
It will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and directors, and the
existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that had not been
duly attended to, the resolution in which the sanction is imposed will include a
reprimand with the name of the responsible position and the publication will be ordered in the
Official Gazette of the corresponding State or Autonomous Community.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that fall
in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the preceding sections.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of the
autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued under the
this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the entities
of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority,
It will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what its regulations have
specific”.

In the case at hand, it is found that the CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCALIDAD.1 has violated the regulations on the protection of
data, by not attending to the exercise of the right of limitation requested by the claimant and
for not having arranged the formalization of a treatment order contract with
the company awarded the comprehensive management of car parks in the municipality or
another legal act.

Said conduct constitutes an infringement of the provisions of articles 18 and
28.3 of the GDPR, respectively.

It should be noted that the LOPDGDD, without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the
RGPD, contemplates in its article 77 the possibility of resorting to the sanction of
warning to correct the processing of personal data that is not appropriate
to the provisions contemplated in said Regulation and in the aforementioned Organic Law,
when those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 83 of the RGPD and articles
72 to 74 of said organic law.

Likewise, it is contemplated that the resolution issued may establish the measures
that it is appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases, the effects of the infraction are corrected
that had been committed and the necessary adaptation is carried out, in this case, to
the requirements contemplated in articles 18 and 28.3 of the RGPD, as well as the
provision of means accrediting compliance with the requirements.

Thus, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 77 of the LOPD, it is appropriate to require
the responsible entity so that it adapts its actions to the regulations for the protection of
personal data, with the scope expressed in the Foundations of Law of the
this motion for a resolution. Specifically, it is appropriate to require the CITY COUNCIL
OF *** LOCALITY.1 to attend to the right to limitation of treatment
requested by the claimant or sufficiently explain the reasons that prevent
attend to this right, in the event that the circumstances that
determined the claimant's request and the purpose of the request would have been lost.
The aforementioned City Council must inform this Agency about the agreed actions.

It is not deemed appropriate to impose any measure in relation to the violation of the
article 28.3 of the RGPD, due to the fact that a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

“Agreement of the person in charge of the processing of personal data on behalf of the
Town Hall of *** LOCATION.1”
formalized on 04/12/2019 by the
CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALIDAD.1 and PARKING AND SERVICES. This
does not imply, however, any pronouncement on the regularity or legality of the
content of that "Agreement", because they are aspects that exceed the object of the
present procedure.

In this regard, it is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body
can be considered as a serious administrative infraction by “not cooperating with
the Control Authority” before the requirements made, being able to be valued such
conduct at the time of opening an administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS A WARNING to the entity CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCALIDAD.1, with CIF P1814200J, for infractions of articles 18 and 28.3
of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5 b) and 83.4.a) of the same Regulation,
respectively.

SECOND: REQUEST the entity CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1, to
that, within a period of one month, counted from the notification of this resolution,
adapt its actions to the personal data protection regulations, with the scope
expressed in the Basis of Law IV. Within the indicated period, the CITY COUNCIL
OF *** LOCATION.1 must justify before this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data attention to this requirement.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity CITY COUNCIL OF
***LOCATION.1.

BEDROOM
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the AEPD, P.O. the Deputy Director General for Data Inspection, Olga
Pérez Sanjuán, Resolution 4/10/2021

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

