

The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the coordinator of the ARC II project, on Friday, September 9, 2022, held the first meeting with the project partners: the Italian Data Protection Supervisory Authority (Garante Privacy), the Faculty of Organization and Informatics from Varaždin, the Vrije University from Brussels and the University of Florence.
This project is a continuation of the successfully implemented ARC project https://arc-rec-project.eu/arc/, which aimed to provide micro, small and medium-sized enterprises with concrete help when harmonizing with the General Data Protection Regulation.
The General Data Protection Regulation is in full force from May 25, 2018. After more than 4 years since its entry into force, compliance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation continues to be a major challenge for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Within the framework of the ARC project, the Personal Data Protection Agency conducted a series of activities to raise the level of awareness of personal data protection for small and medium-sized enterprises and provided them with concrete support when harmonizing with the legislative framework on personal data protection. During the implementation of the ARC project, it was established that entrepreneurs need additional support when harmonizing and that the level of harmonization among Croatian entrepreneurs is not at a satisfactory level. The main goal of the ARC II project, based on the results of the ARC I project, is the development of IT solutions that will be adapted to the specific needs of Croatian and Italian micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and facilitate their compliance with the legislative framework for the protection of personal data. The IT solution will be developed in open-source code and will be available for free use by all micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
In addition to the above, the project activities will include: 20 workshops for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Croatia and 20 in Italy, testing of IT solutions and evaluation workshops, media campaign on social networks of the Italian and Croatian supervisory authority for the protection of personal data, creation of educational materials and videos, as well as the organization of two international conferences. The key result of this project is to increase the knowledge and understanding of the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation among small and medium-sized enterprises and to raise the level of data protection awareness among the general public in Croatia, Italy and Belgium.
Project activities started on September 2, 2022 and will last until September 2, 2024. The project was co-financed from the EU program "Citizenship, Equality, Rights and Values", Grant Agreement No. 101072630.


