DATA PROTECTION  ACT  2018  (PART  6,  SECTION  155) 

SUPERVISORY  POWERS OF THE INFORMATION  COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY  PENALTY  NOTICE 

TO:  The Central Young Men’s Christian Association ("the Central YMCA") 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OF:  112 Great Russell Street, London WC1B 3NQ. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

Introduction and Summary 
 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

The Information Commissioner ("the Commissioner") has decided to issue 
the Central YMCA with a monetary penalty under section 155 of the Data 
 
Protection  Act  2018  (“the  DPA”).  The  penalty  notice 
imposes  an 
 
administrative  fine  on  the  Central  YMCA, 
in  accordance  with  the 
 
Commissioner's  powers  under  Article  83  of  the  General Data  Protection 
 
Regulation  2016  (the  "UK  GDPR").  The  amount  of  the  penalty  is  £7,500 
 
 
(seven thousand five hundred pounds). 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

The  penalty  is  in  relation  to  contraventions  of  Articles  5(1)(f) and  32(1) 
and (2) of the UK GDPR and an incident on 6 October 2022 (the “relevant 
date”)  affecting  personal  data  processed  by  the  Central  YMCA  on  the 
relevant date. 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For the reasons set out in this Monetary Penalty Notice, the Commissioner 
has  found that the  Central YMCA  failed  to  ensure  appropriate  security of 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

4. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

personal  data  in  its  control  by  implementing  appropriate  technical  and 
 
organisational  measures  and  appropriate  policies  and  procedures,  as 
 
required by Article 5(1)(f) and Article 32(1) of the UK GDPR. 
 
   
This  Monetary  Penalty  Notice  explains  the  Commissioner's  decision, 
 
including the Commissioner's  reasons for  issuing  the  penalty and  for  the 
 
amount of the penalty. The Central YMCA has had an opportunity to make 
 
representations  to  the  Commissioner  in  response  to  the  Notice  of  Intent 
 
regarding  this  penalty.  Instead  of  making  representations  the  Central 
 
YMCA has decided to accept the Notice of Intent and the Commissioner’s 
 
findings. 

 
    

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Framework 
 
 
Obligations of the Controller 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

The Central YMCA is a controller for the purposes of the UK GDPR and the 
 
DPA,  because  it  determines  the  purposes  and  means  of  processing  of 
 
personal data (UK GDPR Article 4(7)). 
  
 
“Personal data” is defined by Article 4(1) of the UK GDPR to mean: 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

“information  relating  to  an  identified  or  identifiable  natural  person 
 
(‘data  subject’);  an  identifiable  natural  person  is  one  who  can  be 
 
identified,  directly  or  indirectly,  in  particular  by  reference  to  an 
 
identifier  such  as  a  name,  an  identification  number,  location  data, 
 
an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, 
 
physiological,  genetic,  mental, economic, cultural or  social  identity 
 
 
of that natural person.” 
 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 
 

5. 
 

6. 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
7. 
 

“Processing” is defined by Article 4(2) of the UK GDPR to mean: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

“any operation or set of operations which is performed on personal 
 
data  or  on  sets  of  personal  data,  whether  or  not  by  automated 
 
means,  such  as  collection,  recording,  organisation,  structuring, 
 
storage,  adaptation  or  alteration,  retrieval,  consultation,  use, 
 
disclosure  by  transmission,  dissemination  or  otherwise  making 
 
available,  alignment  or  combination,  restriction,  erasure  or 
 
destruction” 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Article 9 of the UK GDPR prohibits the processing of “special categories of 
 
personal  data”  unless  certain  conditions  are  met.  The  special  categories 
 
 
of personal data subject to Article 9 include: 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“personal  data  revealing  racial  or  ethnic  origin,  political  opinions, 
 
religious  or  philosophical  beliefs,  or  trade  union  membership,  and 
 
the  processing  of  genetic  data,  bio-metric  data  for  the  purpose  of 
 
uniquely  identifying  a  natural  person,  data  concerning  health  or 
 
data concerning a natural person’s sex life or sexual orientation”. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
Controllers are subject to various obligations in relation to the processing 
 
of personal data, as set out in the UK GDPR and the DPA. They are obliged 
 
by Article 5(2) to adhere to the data processing principles set out in Article 
 
5(1)  of  the  UK  GDPR.  Article  5(2)  makes  clear  that  the  “controller  shall 
 
be  responsible  for,  and  be  able  to  demonstrate  compliance  with, 
 
 
paragraph 1 ('accountability')". 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In particular, controllers are required to implement appropriate technical 
 
and  organisational  measures  to  ensure  that  their  processing  of  personal 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

8. 
 

9. 
 

10. 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 

 

data  is  secure,  and  to  enable  them  to  demonstrate  that  their  processing 
 
is secure. Article 5(1)(f) ("Integrity and Confidentiality") stipulates that: 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

“Personal  data  shall  be  […]  processed  in  a  manner  that  ensures 
 
appropriate  security  of  the  personal  data,  including  protection 
 
against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental 
 
loss,  destruction  or  damage,  using  appropriate  technical  or 
 
organisational measures”. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.  Article 32 of the UK GDPR also provides that: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“1.  Taking 
into  account  the  state  of  the  art,  the  costs  of 
 
 
implementation  and  the  nature,  scope,  context  and  purposes  of 
 
processing as well as the risk of  varying likelihood and severity for 
 
the  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons,  the  controller  and  the 
 
processor shall implement appropriate technical and organisational 
 
measures  to  ensure  a  level  of  security  appropriate  to  the  risk, 
 
including inter alia as appropriate: 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 
 

(b) 
 

(c) 
 

(d) 
 

 

 

 

the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data; 
 
 
the  ability  to  ensure  the  ongoing  confidentiality,  integrity, 
 
availability and resilience of processing systems and services; 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the  ability  to  restore  the  availability  and  access  to  personal 
 
data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical 
 
incident; 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a  process  for  regularly  testing,  assessing  and  evaluating  the 
 
 
effectiveness  of  technical  and  organisational  measures  for 
 
ensuring the security of the processing. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

4 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  In  assessing  the  appropriate  level  of  security  account  shall  be 
 
taken in particular of the risks that are presented by processing, 
 
in  particular  from  accidental  or  unlawful  destruction, 
loss, 
 
 
alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to personal data 
 
 
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed." 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Commissioner’s Powers of Enforcement 
 
 

 

 

 

 

12.  The Commissioner is the supervisory authority for the UK, as provided for 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by Article 51 of the UK GDPR. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.  By Article 57(1) of the UK GDPR, it is the Commissioner’s task to monitor 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and enforce the application of the UK GDPR. 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14.  By  Article  58(2)(d)  of  the  UK  GDPR  the  Commissioner  has  the  power  to 
 
notify  controllers  of  alleged  infringements  of  the  UK  GDPR.  By  Article 
 
58(2)(i) he has the power to impose an administrative fine, in accordance 
 
with Article 83, in addition to or instead of the other corrective measures 
 
referred  to  in  Article  58(2),  depending  on  the  circumstances  of  each 
 
 
individual case. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15.  By  Article  83(1),  the  Commissioner 
 

is  required  to  ensure  that 
 
administrative  fines  issued  in  accordance  with  Article  83  are  effective, 
 
 
proportionate,  and  dissuasive  in  each  individual  case.  Article  83(2)  goes 
 
 
on to provide that: 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“When  deciding  whether  to  impose  an  administrative  fine  and 
 
deciding on the amount of the administrative fine in each individual 
 
case due regard shall be given to the following: 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

5 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)  the  nature,  gravity  and  duration  of  the  infringement 
 
taking  into  account  the  nature  scope  or  purpose  of  the 
 
processing concerned as well as the number of data subjects 
 
 
affected and the level of damage suffered by them; 
  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) the intentional or negligent character of the infringement; 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(c) any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate 
 
the damage suffered by data subjects; 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(d) the degree  of responsibility of the controller or processor 
 
taking  into  account  technical  and  organisational  measures 
 
implemented by them pursuant to Articles 25 and 32; 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(e)  any  relevant  previous  infringements  by  the  controller  or 
 
processor; 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(f) the  degree  of  cooperation  with  the  supervisory  authority, 
 
in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible 
 
 
adverse effects of the infringement; 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(g)  the  categories  of  personal  data  affected  by  the 
 
infringement; 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(h)  the  manner  in  which  the  infringement  became  known  to 
 
the  supervisory  authority,  in  particular  whether,  and  if  so  to 
 
what  extent,  the  controller  or  processor  notified  the 
 
 
infringement; 
 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 
 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

(i)  where  measures  referred  to 
in  Article  58(2)  have 
 
 
previously  been  ordered  against  the  controller  or  processor 
 
 
 
 
concerned  with 
the  same  subject-matter, 
 
 
compliance with those measures; 
 
  

 
regard 
 

to 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(j)  adherence  to  approved  codes  of  conduct  pursuant  to 
 
Article  40  or  approved  certification  mechanisms  pursuant  to 
 
Article 42; and 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

(k)  any  other  aggravating  or  mitigating  factor  applicable  to 
 
the  circumstances  of  the  case,  such  as  financial  benefits 
 
gained,  or  losses  avoided,  directly  or  indirectly,  from  the 
 
infringement.” 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
16.  Article  83(5)  UK  GDPR  provides,  inter  alia,  that  infringements  of  the 
 
obligations imposed by Article 5 UK GDPR on the controller and processor 
 
will,  in  accordance  with  Article  83(2),  be  subject  to  administrative  fines 
 
of up to €20 million or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 4% of its total 
 
worldwide  annual  turnover  of  the  preceding  financial  year,  whichever  is 
 
higher. 
 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.  The DPA contains enforcement provisions in Part 6 which are exercisable 
 
by  the  Commissioner.1  Section  155  of  the  DPA  sets  out  the  matters  to 
 
which  the  Commissioner  must  have  regard  when  deciding  whether  to 
 
issue  a  penalty  notice  and  when  determining  the  amount  of  the  penalty 
 
and provides that: 
 

 
   

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
1  Section 115 DPA establishes that the Commissioner is the UK's supervisory authority for the purposes 
 
of the UK GDPR. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

“(1) If the Commissioner is satisfied that a person— 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) has failed or is failing as described in section 149(2) …, 
 
 
the Commissioner may, by written notice (a "penalty notice"), 
 
require the person to pay to the Commissioner an amount in 
 
sterling specified in the notice. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)  Subject  to  subsection  (4),  when  deciding  whether  to  give  a 
 
penalty  notice  to  a  person  and  determining  the  amount  of  the 
 
penalty,  the  Commissioner  must  have  regard  to  the  following,  so 
 
far as relevant— 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

(a)  to  the  extent  that  the  notice  concerns  a  matter  to  which 
 
the  GDPR  applies,  the  matters  listed  in  Article  83(1)  and  (2) 
 
of the UK GDPR.” 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18.  The failures identified in section 149(2) DPA are, insofar as relevant here: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“(2)  The  first  type  of  failure  is  where  a  controller  or  processor  has 
 
failed, or is failing, to comply with any of the following— 
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

   
 

(a) a provision  of Chapter  II of the  UK GDPR or  Chapter  2 of 
 
Part  3  or  Chapter  2  of  Part  4  of  this  Act  (principles  of 
 
processing); 
 

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

…; 
 

 

 

 
 

8 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

   
 
 

(c) a provision of Articles 25 to 39 of the UK GDPR or section 
 
64 or 65 of this Act (obligations of controllers and processors) 
 
[…]” 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

19.  Schedule  16  includes  provisions  relevant  to  the  imposition  of  penalties. 
 
Paragraph 2 makes provision for the issuing of notices of intent to impose 
 
a penalty, as follows: 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“(1)  Before  giving  a  person  a  penalty  notice,  the  Commissioner 
 
must, by written notice (a "notice of intent") inform the person that 
 
the Commissioner intends to give a penalty notice.” 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
The Commissioner's Regulatory Action Policy 
 
 

 

 

 

 

20.  Pursuant  to  section  160(1)  DPA,  the  Commissioner  published  his 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory Action Policy ("RAP”) on 7 November 2018. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

 

 

21.  The  process  the  Commissioner  will  follow  in  deciding  the  appropriate 
 
amount of a penalty to be imposed is described in the RAP from page 27 
 
onwards. In particular, the RAP sets out the following five-step process: 
 
 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.  Step  1.  An  ‘initial  element’  removing  any  financial  gain  from  the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
breach. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

b.  Step  2.  Adding  in  an  element  to  censure  the  breach  based  on  its 
 
scale and severity, taking into account the considerations identified 
 
at section 155(2) - (4) DPA. 
 
 

 
 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

9 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

c.  Step  3.  Adding  in  an  element  to  reflect  any  aggravating  factors.  A 
 
list of aggravating factors which the Commissioner would take into 
 
account,  where  relevant,  is  provided  at  page  11  of  the  RAP.  This 
 
list is intended to be indicative, not exhaustive. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d.  Step 4. Adding in an amount for deterrent effect to others. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e.  Step  5.  Reducing  the  amount  (save  that  in  the  initial  element)  to 
 
reflect  any  mitigating  factors,  including  ability  to  pay  (financial 
 
hardship). A list of mitigating factors which the Commissioner would 
 
take into account, where relevant, is provided at page 11-12 of the 
 
RAP. This list is intended to be indicative, not exhaustive. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Circumstances of the Failure: Facts 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Background 
 
 
22.  This  Penalty  Notice  does  not  purport  to  identify  exhaustively  each  and 
 
every  circumstance  and  document  relevant  to  the  Commissioner’s 
 
investigation.  The  circumstances  and  documents  identified  below  are  a 
 
proportionate summary. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23.  The  Central  YMCA  is  an  education  and  wellbeing  charity  registered  as  a 
   
data controller with the Information Commissioner's Office (the "ICO"). It 
 
 
provides  a  number  of  community  programmes,  one  of  which  is  the 
 
Positive Health Programme. 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

10 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
24.  The  Positive  Health  Programme  ("Programme")  is  run  by  the  Positive 
 
Health  team  as  part  of  YMCA  Club.  YMCA  Club  is  a  large  gym  facility, 
 
which is part of the Central YMCA. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25.  The Programme is an exercise scheme for people living with HIV. As part 
 
of  the  Programme,  the  Central  YMCA  collects  special  category  data  (the 
 
aims  of  referral  to  the  Programme,  the  date  of  HIV  diagnosis,  the 
 
medication taken, the individual's medical statistics, other medical history 
 
and their referring clinician/hospital). 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
26.  On  6  October  2022  at  approximately  15:34  BST,  a  co-ordinator  for  the 
 
Programme sent an email to a mailing list of 270 recipients, inviting them 
 
 
to a talk about nutrition. 
  
 

 
 

   

   

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27.  The  Programme  co-ordinator  used  an  email  programme  (Microsoft 
 
Outlook) to send the email. At the relevant date, the Central YMCA had a 
   
verbally  communicated  policy  that  the  Programme  team  should  send 
 
event  invitations  via  Microsoft  Outlook  using  the  blind  carbon  copy 
 
(“BCC”) function. 
  
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28.  The  co-ordinator  unfortunately  included  those  email  addresses  in  the 
 
carbon copy (“CC”) function,  thus revealing  all of the  email addresses  to 
 
all 270 recipients. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

29.  The  day  after,  on  realising  the  error,  the  co-ordinator  used  the  recall 
 
function  within  Microsoft  Outlook  to  try  and  recall  the  email  sent.  This 
 
however led to another email to all 270 recipients. It was the Programme 
 
team's  belief  that  this  would  remove  the  original  message  from  the 
 
 
recipients' inboxes. 
   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

11 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
 
The number of data subjects involved 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

30.  Whilst the emails had been sent to 270 recipients, there were duplicates, 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
so they were sent to 264 unique email addresses. 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31.  The emails were not delivered to 9 of those email addresses, so the emails 
 

 
were delivered to 255 recipients, disclosing 264 email addresses. 
  
 

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
 

32.  The  Central  YMCA  then  assessed  that  115  of  those  had  clear  names  in 
 
them,  and  a  further  51  contained  at  least  part  of  a  name,  making  them 
 
potentially identifiable. Therefore 166 data subjects were affected by the 
 
breach, all of whom are in the Programme. 
  
 

 
   
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The nature of the personal data and special category data disclosed 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

33.  As  part  of 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

its  guidance  and  resources  relating  to  UK  GDPR,  the 
 
Commissioner  has  produced  detailed  guidance  in  relation  to  special 
 
 
category data. The guidance includes a sub-section titled 'What is special 
 
category  data?'  which  establishes  that  special  category  data  is  not  just 
 
personal  data  which  specifies  relevant  details  but  also  personal  data 
 
"revealing or concerning" those details. The test to be met is whether the 
 
relevant 
inferred  with  a  reasonable  degree  of 
 
 
certainty, and if so, it is likely to be special category data. 
 
  
 

information  can  be 
 
 
 

 
   

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

34.  As well as the disclosure of 166 email addresses containing personal data, 
 
the  context  of  the  email  was  the  Programme.  The  invite  to  the  event  for 
 
nutrition guidance to individuals meant that it can be reasonably assumed 
 
that  the  recipients  of  the  email  would  be  aware  that  the  Programme  is 
 
directed  at  individuals  with  HIV.  If  the  recipients  were  not  part  of  the 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
12 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

Programme, they could find out what the Programme was on the Central 
 
YMCA's website. 

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
35.  Recipients of the email can therefore infer from its contents that the 166 
 
individuals  whose  email  addresses  were  disclosed  in  the  breach  were 
 
likely  to  be  living  with  HIV,  meaning  that  the  disclosed  personal  data 
 
included health data, which  in turn  is special category  data  under  Article 
 
 
9(1) of the UK GDPR. 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

36.  The Central YMCA had also set expectations of privacy in its Programme, 
 
and  that  some  members  of  the  Programme  may  have  wished  to  remain 
 
anonymous, even to other members of the Programme, whilst noting that 
 
"all recipients are assumed to have an HIV positive diagnosis". 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

   
 

37.  Even if the personal data was not considered to be special category data, 
 
there  are  particular  sensitivities  regarding  the  personal  data  being 
 
processed  in  the  Programme,  which  the  Central  YMCA  should  have 
 
considered and taken a cautious approach when processing it, as set out 
 
in the Commissioner's guidance referred to in paragraph 33: 
  
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

"If  you  think  the  data  carries  a  risk  of  inferences  that  might  be 
 
considered  sensitive  or  private,  even  if  this  falls  short  of  revealing 
 
something  about  one  of  the  special  categories  with  any  level  of 
 
certainty,  then  you  should  also  carefully  consider  fairness  issues 
 
and whether there is anything more you can do to minimise privacy 
 
risks." 
 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Discovery  of  the  breach,  reporting  to  the  Commissioner  and 
 
communications to data subjects 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

13 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
38.  The  Central YMCA became aware  of the  breach on the morning after the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

email was sent, as a result of complaints received from recipients. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

40. 
 

39.  The YMCA Club informed the Central YMCA's Data Protection Officer (DPO) 
 
later  that  morning,  with  a  breach  report  being  made  to  the  ICO  that 
 
evening.  This  was  in  line  with  Article  33  of  the  UK  GDPR  and  within  the 
 
72 hour period. 
  
 
In  accordance  with  Article  34  of  the  UK  GDPR  the  Central  YMCA  notified 
 
affected  data  subjects  on  10  October  2022,  setting  out  the  cause  of  the 
 
breach,  took  accountability  for  the  error  and  informed  data  subjects  of 
 
the  steps  the  Central YMCA  were  taking, including  reporting  the  incident 
 
to the ICO and conducting an internal review. The data controller provided 
 
the  DPO’s  contact  details  for  anyone  affected  to  ask  questions  or  to 
 
discuss how the breach had affected them. 
  
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Commissioner’s Investigation 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

41.  The Commissioner first wrote to the Central YMCA on 14 December 2022 
 
asking for further information in relation to the actions the Central YMCA 
 
had taken following the data breach notification it had made on 7 October 
 
2022.  During  the  period  between  February  2023  and  April  2023, 
 
subsequent enquiries were raised by the Commissioner seeking additional 
 
information from the Central YMCA. 
  
 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42.  The Commissioner's investigation found four key areas where the Central 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

YMCA failed to take reasonable steps to prevent this breach: 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.  The  Central  YMCA  had  no  written  policy  in  place  regarding  the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
sending of group emails, 
  

 

 

 

 

 
 

14 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

b.  The Central YMCA had access to an email marketing platform (and 
 
the  use  of  this  platform  would  have  reduced  the  likelihood  of  an 
 
inappropriate  disclosure)  however  the  Central  YMCA  did  not  use  it 
 
 
in this case, 
  
 

c.  The  Central  YMCA  failed  to  effectively  monitor  completion  of  data 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
protection training, and 
  

 

 

 

d.  There  is  evidence  of  deficiencies  within  the  Central  YMCA's  data 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
protection training. 
  

 

 

 
 
The Contraventions of Articles of 5 (1)(f) and 32 (1) and (2) of the UK 
 
GDPR 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

43.  The  Commissioner  has  considered  whether  the  facts  set  out  above 
 

 
constitute a contravention of the data protection legislation. 
  
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

44.  For the reasons set out below, the Commissioner has taken the view from 
 
 
his 
investigation  that  this  breach  occurred  as  a  result  of  serious 
 
 
deficiencies in the technical and organisational measures implemented by 
 
 
the Central YMCA. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

45.  For  the  reasons  set  out  below,  and  having  carefully  considered  the 
 
information  provided  by  the  Central  YMCA,  the  Commissioner's  view  is 
 
that  the  Central  YMCA  failed  to  comply  with  Articles  5  (1)(f)  and  32(1) 
 
and (2) of the UK GDPR. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Article 5 (1)(f) and 32(1) and (2) of the UK GDPR 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 

15 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
46.  The  Commissioner  finds  that the Central YMCA has  failed to  comply with 
 
the  requirements  of  Article  5(1)(f)  of  the  UK  GDPR,  including  to  process 
 
personal data "in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the data, 
 
including  protection  against  unauthorised  or  unlawful  processing,  using 
 
appropriate  technical  or  organisational  measures".  In  making  this 
 
determination,  the  Commissioner  takes  into  account  the  Central  YMCA's 
 
failure to comply with Articles 32(1), 32(1)(a), 32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the 
 
UK  GDPR,  which  was  demonstrated  by  the  Central  YMCA's  failure  to 
 
 
implement appropriate technical and organisational measures: 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

a.  not having a relevant written policy or procedure in place; 
  
b.  inappropriately relying on the use of BCC to send group emails; 
  
c.  not providing data protection training specific to employee roles and 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d.  a lack of awareness of data protection legislation within some parts 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

levels of access to personal data; 
  
 
of the organisation; and 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

e.  not effectively monitoring completion of data protection training. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) not having a relevant written policy or procedure 
  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
47.  At  the  time  of  the  security  incident,  the  Central  YMCA  did  not  have 
 
sufficient  written  information  security  policies  or  procedures  to  prevent 
 
this breach. It only had a verbal policy to use BCC in emails, both of which 
 
are  insufficient  and  not  appropriate  for  managing  special  category  data. 
 
It also communicated relatively frequently using this method. 
  
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

48.  Another  part  of  the  Central  YMCA  (the  Communications  and  Marketing 
 
team) had an email marketing tool, BrotherMailer, which could have been 
 
used  to  mitigate  this  risk  and  handle  the  special  category  data 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

16 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 
 

appropriately,  by  sending  individual  emails  to  each  recipient.  However, 
 
the  Central  YMCA  did  not  know  that  the  Programme  was  sending  emails 
 
of this nature. 
 

 
 

    

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

50. 
 

 
 
 

49.  Relevant  industry  standards  and  guidance,  including  ISO27001,  NIST 
 
Cyber  Security  Framework,  and  the  ICO  and  National  Cyber  Security 
 
Centre co-published guidance, "GDPR Security Outcomes", establish that 
 
organisations  should  have  written  security  policies  and  procedures  in 
 
place. 
 
  
ISO27001  recommends  that:  “A  set  of  policies  for  information  security 
 
shall be defined, approved by management, published and communicated 
 
to  employees  and  relevant  external  parties”.  The  NIST  Cyber  Security 
 
Framework  requires  that  an:  “Organizational  cybersecurity  policy  is 
 
established  and  communicated”,  and  the  GDPR  Security  Outcomes  sets 
 
out  that  to  protect  personal  data  against  cyber-attacks  organisations 
 
should "define, implement, communicate and enforce appropriate policies 
 
and  processes  that  direct  your  overall  approach  to  securing  systems 
 
involved in the processing of personal data". 
 
  
lack  of  documented  and 
It 
 
 
appropriate  security  policies  and  procedures  to  deal  with  the  sending  of 
 
emails  with  special  category  data  was  in  non-compliance  with  Article 
 
32(1)  of  the  UK  GDPR.  The  lack  of  such  documentation  also  contributed 
 
to  the  Central  YMCA  failing  to  process  personal  data  in  a  manner  that 
 
ensured  appropriate  security  of  the  personal  data,  including  protection 
 
against  unauthorised or  unlawful  processing, using appropriate  technical 
 
or organisational measures, as required by Article 5(1)(f) of the UK GDPR. 
 
It  also  meant  that  the  Central  YMCA  had  not  assessed  the  appropriate 
 

is  the  Commissioner's  view  that  the 
 
 

51. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

17 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

level of security with regard to the risks of its data processing, particularly 
 
here  in  respect  of  the  unauthorised  disclosure  of  an  individual's  special 
 
category  data  to  other  participants  in  the  Programme,  as  required  by 
 
Article 32(2) of the UK GDPR. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) inappropriately  relying  on  the  use of  BCC  to  send  group 
 
emails 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
52.  As  the  Commissioner  refers  to  above,  the  lack  of  a  documented  policy 
 
meant  that  whilst  the  Programme  co-ordinator  believed  that  they  were 
 
acting in an appropriate way, following the verbal policy to use BCC, this 
 
was  an  inappropriately  insecure  method  of  doing  so.  This  is  because  it 
 
relies on the individual sending the email to ensure that it goes in the BCC 
 
field and not, as happened here, in the CC field, thus exposing individuals' 
 
special category data. 
  
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
  

53.  The  Central  YMCA  had  the  financial  and  organisational  means  to 
 
implement BrotherMailer  in the Programme team but failed to do so.  As 
 
the Central YMCA procured the BrotherMailer tool for use elsewhere in the 
 
Central YMCA, it can be inferred that parts of the Central YMCA knew that 
 
reliance  on  sending  emails  by  BCC  was  inappropriate,  but  that  this 
 
 
tool  were  not  appropriately 
knowledge, 
 
 
communicated throughout the Central YMCA. 
 
If  the  Central  YMCA  had  used  BrotherMailer  it  would  also  have  likely 
 
safeguarded the personal data from inappropriate disclosure. 
  
 

 
 
the  process  and 
 
 

 
the 
 
 

54. 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3)  not  providing  data  protection  training  specific  to 
 
employee roles and levels of access to personal data 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

18 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
55.  The  Central  YMCA  told  the  Commissioner  that  the  Programme  co-
ordinator had been initially a self-employed contractor in a different team. 
 
They  had  not  completed  data  protection  training  and  it  had  been  the 
 
Central YMCA's policy to provide training only to employees. 
 

 
   

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

56.  This  changed  in  March  2022,  but  as  the  Commissioner  notes  below  in 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

point 5, the Programme co-ordinator still did not take the training. 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

57.  The Central YMCA used a training partner called Bob's Business Ltd.  The 
 
Central YMCA provided copies of this training to the Commissioner during 
 
the investigation. It included sections on the sending of group emails, but 
 
it  also  stated  (despite  what  the  Central  YMCA  said  about  there  being  no 
 
written  policy)  that  individuals  should  use BCC when  sending to multiple 
 
contacts. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

58.  Whilst  completion  of  that  training  may  have  reduced  the  risk  of  the 
 
inappropriate disclosure, BCC is still a high risk method of sending emails 
 
and hence the training would not have eliminated the risk of human error. 
  
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

59.  The training did not highlight the increased risks when processing special 
 
category  data,  nor did it bring attendees' attention  to the  fact that  there 
 
was  within  the  Central  YMCA  the  BrotherMailer  platform  available  which 
 
would have provided an appropriately secure alternative method to send 
 
emails. 
  
 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

60.  The  Commissioner  expected  the  Central  YMCA  to  provide  role  specific 
 
data  protection  training,  at  a  sufficient  quality  to  ensure  that  data 
 
protection  is  understood,  and  proportionate  to  the  individual's  level  of 
 
access to, and sensitivity of, personal data. 

 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

19 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 

   

(4) a lack of awareness of data protection legislation within 
 
some parts of the organisation 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

61.  The  Commissioner  noted  in  its  investigation  that  there  is  evidence  of  a 
 
lack  of  awareness  of  data  protection  legislation  in  the  Programme  team. 
  
For  example,  they  did  not  initially  understand  the  seriousness  of  the 
 
breach, referring to a "possible breach" when reporting it, and stating that 
 
 
the email "contained no private information". 
 

 
   
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(5) not effectively monitoring completion of data protection 
 
 
training 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

62.  The  Programme  co-ordinator  had  not  completed  data  protection  training 
 
prior  to  the  data  breach.  At  the  relevant  time,  73%  of  workers  at  the 
 
Central YMCA had completed the relevant training module. 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

63.  Before  the  Programme  co-ordinator  moved  to  a  fixed  term  contract  in 
 
2022,  they  were  signed  up  to  certain  induction  modules,  including  data 
 
protection  training.  They  did  not  complete  this  training,  nor  did  they  do 
 
so  when  training  was  required  for  self-employed  contractors.  A  process 
 
was  in  place  for  line  managers  to  ensure  induction  checklists  were 
 
completed,  but  there  was  no  central  oversight.  A  reporting  mechanism 
 
was in place to assess non-completion, but this did not work either. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

64.  The  Commissioner  expected  the  Central  YMCA  to  monitor  training 
 
effectively and ensure that mandatory training was completed, in line with 
 
the Central YMCA's policies. 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

20 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
Factors  relevant  to  whether  a  penalty  is  appropriate,  and  if  so,  the 
 
amount of the penalty 
 
 
65.  The  Commissioner  has  considered  the  factors  set  out  in  Article  83(2)  of 
 
the UK GDPR in deciding whether to issue a penalty. For the reasons given 
 
below,  he  is  satisfied  that:  (i)  the  contraventions  are  sufficiently  serious 
 
to justify issuing a penalty in addition to exercising his corrective powers; 
 
and (ii) the contraventions are serious enough to justify a significant fine. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

   

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

the  nature,  gravity  and  duration  of  the  infringement  taking  into 
(a) 
 
 
account  the  nature,  scope  or  purpose  of  the  processing  concerned  as 
 
well  as  the  number  of  data  subjects  affected  and  the  level  of  damage 
 
suffered by them 
 
 
Nature: 
  
 
66.  As  the  Commissioner  sets  out  above,  this  was  a  disclosure  of  special 
 
category  data  in  circumstances  where  confidentiality  was  expected,  and 
 
the  Central  YMCA  had  not  taken  appropriate  actions  to  appropriately 
 
secure  the  special category  data. The  Central  YMCA  had  intended  to  use 
 
BCC  which  is  not  appropriately  secure,  and  the  Programme  co-ordinator 
 
then used CC which was not secure. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

67.  The  Commissioner's  investigation  into  the  incident  revealed  multiple 
 
infringements  of  the  UK  GDPR  as  set  out  in  paragraphs  41  to  64  above. 
 
In  particular,  the  Commissioner  found  breaches  of  Article  5(1)(f)  and 
 
32(1)  and  (2)  due  to:  no  written  policy  being  in  place  for  the  sending  of 
 
group  emails;  the  email  marketing  platform  not  being  used  hence  CC 
 
being used by mistake; not effectively monitoring the completion of data 
 
protection training; and deficiencies within that training itself. 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

21 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
 
Gravity: 
 
 
68.  The contravention is serious, in particular having regard to the sensitivity 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

of the personal data processed by the Central YMCA. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

69. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

In addition, the Commissioner takes account of the risks to data subjects 
 
that arise from the loss of control and disclosure of what they considered 
 
and  expected  to  be  confidential  special  category  data,  as  it  was  special 
 
category  data  for  166  data  subjects  given  that  a  positive  HIV  diagnosis 
 
can be inferred with a reasonable degree of certainty. 
  
 
 

 
   

   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number of data subjects 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

70.  The number of data subjects is 166, as set out above at paragraph 69. 
 
 
Duration 
  
 
71.  The  Commissioner  considers  that  the  contraventions  relating  to  Articles 
 
5(1)(f)  and  32(1)  of  the  UK  GDPR  were  from  6  October  2022  at  15:34 
 
BST when the breach occurred. It was not until 10 October 2022 that the 
 
individuals  on  the  affected  mailing  list  were  emailed  to  advise  of  the 
 
breach. 
 
the intentional or negligent character of the infringement 
 

(b) 
 
 
 
72.  The  Commissioner  considers that  the  infringement was  negligent  for  the 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reasons set out in paragraphs 66 to 69 above. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

22 
 

 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
 
(c)  any  action  taken  by  the  controller  or  processor  to  mitigate  the 
 
damage suffered by data subjects 
 
 
73.  The Central YMCA complied with Article 34 of the UK GDPR to notify data 
 
subjects  of  the  personal data breach, but this  took  from  6  October  to 10 
 
October to do so. 
 
 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

74.  The  Central  YMCA  also  implemented  short  and  longer  term  remedial 
 
measures,  including  an  attempted  email  recall  which  was  ineffective, 
 
immediate breach reporting to the Central YMCA DPO and feedback to the 
 
 
staff involved about the approach they had taken being ineffective. 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the  degree  of  responsibility  of  the  controller  or  processor  taking 
(d) 
 
 
into  account  technical  and  organisational  measures  implemented  by 
 
them pursuant to Articles 25 and 32 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

75.  Article  32  of  the  UK  GDPR  requires  organisations  to 
 

implement 
 
appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  to  ensure  a  level  of 
 
 
security appropriate to the risks presented by their processing; to include 
 
 
the potential impacts these risks may have on the rights and freedoms of 
 
natural persons. 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
76.  More  specifically,  Article  32(1)(b) of the  UK GDPR requires organisations 
 
to implement measures that ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, 
 
availability and resilience of their processing systems and services. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

77.  The  Commissioner  is  satisfied  that  for  the  reasons  set  out  in  the 
 
paragraphs above that the Central YMCA did not have sufficient measures 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
23 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

in  place  to  ensure  the  ongoing  integrity  and  resilience  of  processing 
 
systems and services in line with Articles 5(1)(f) and 32(1). 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
(e)  any  relevant  previous 
 
 
processor 
 
 
 
78.  The Commissioner has not identified any relevant previous infringements 
 

infringements  by  the  controller  or 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by the Central YMCA. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority, in order 
(f) 
 
 
to  remedy  the  infringement  and  mitigate  the  possible  adverse  effects 
 
 
of the infringement 
 
 
 
79.  The Central YMCA fully cooperated with the Commissioner's investigation. 
  
 
(g) 
 
 

the categories of personal data affected by the infringement 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

80.  The  categories  of  personal  data  affected  is  set  out  above  at  paragraphs 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

33 to 37. 
 
 
(h) 
the  manner  in  which  the  infringement  became  known  to  the 
 
 
supervisory  authority,  in  particular  whether,  and  if  so  to  what  extent, 
 
 
the controller or processor notified the infringement 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

81.  The  Central  YMCA  self-reported  the  personal  data  breach  to  the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commissioner within 72 hours of becoming aware of the incident. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(i)  where measures referred to in Article 58(2) have previously been 
 
ordered  against  the  controller  or  processor  concerned  with  regard  to 
 
the same subject-matter, compliance with those measures; 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

24 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

 

 

82.  Not applicable. 
 
 
(j)  adherence to approved codes of conduct pursuant to Article 40 or 
 
 
approved certification mechanisms pursuant to Article 42; 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

83.  Not applicable. 
 
 
(k)  any  other  aggravating  or  mitigating  factor  applicable  to  the 
 
circumstances  of  the case,  such  as  financial  benefits  gained,  or  losses 
 
 
avoided, directly or indirectly, from the infringement. 
 
 
84.  The  Commissioner  has considered the  following aggravating factors in 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this case: 
 
 

 
a.  Not applicable. 
 

 

 

85.  The Commissioner took into account the following mitigating factors: 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
a.  Not applicable. 
 

 

 

 

 
 
Summary and Penalty 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

86.  For  the  reasons  set out above,  the  Commissioner  has  decided  to  impose 
 
a  financial  penalty  on  the  Central  YMCA.  Taken  together  the  findings 
   
 
above concerning the infringement, its likely impact, and the fact that the 
 
Central  YMCA 
the 
 
 
Commissioner  has  decided  to  apply  an  effective,  dissuasive  and 
 
 
proportionate  penalty reflecting  the  seriousness  of  the  breach which  has 
 
 
occurred. 
 

its  GDPR  obligations, 
 
 
 

to  comply  with 
 

failed 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

25 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
Calculation of Penalty 
 

 

 

 
 

87.  The  Commissioner  considers that  imposition  of  a  financial  penalty would 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be an effective and proportionate action to ensure future compliance. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
88.  Following  the  Five  Step  process  set  out  in  the  RAP  the  calculation  of  the 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

proposed penalty is as follows. 
 

 

 

 

 
   

 
 

89.  Step  1:  An  initial  element  removing  any  financial  gain  from  the  breach. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

There was no evidence of financial gain from the breach. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

90.  Step  2:  Adding  in  an  element  to  censure  the  breach  based  on  its  scale 
 
and  severity,  taking  into  account  the  considerations  identified  at  section 
 
155(2)-(4)  DPA.  This  refers  to  and  repeats  the  matters  listed  in  Article 
 
83(1)  and  (2)  as  set  out  above.  The  details  are  set  out  above  and  the 
 
conclusion  at  step  2,  taking  into  account:  (a)  the  matters  set  out  above 
 
at paragraphs 65 to 83, (b) the matters referred to in this section and (c) 
 
the  need  to  apply  an  effective  proportionate  and  dissuasive  fine  the 
 
Commissioner considers that a penalty of £300,000 would be appropriate 
 
before  adjustment  in  accordance  with  Steps  3-5  below.  This  amount  is 
 
considered appropriate to reflect the seriousness of the breach and takes 
 
into  account  in  particular  the  need  for  the  penalty  to  be  effective, 
 
proportionate and dissuasive. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
91.  Step  3:  Adding  in  an  element  to  reflect  and  aggravating  factors  (Article 
 
83(2)(k)).  The  Commissioner  considered  that  there  were  no  additional 
 
factors relevant to the setting of the penalty were addressed during Step 
 
2. 
  

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

26 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
92.  Step  4:  Adding  an  amount 
 
 

for  deterrent  effect  to  others.  The 
 
Commissioner  considered  that  the  factors  relevant  to  the  setting  of  the 
 
penalty were addressed during Step 2. 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

93.  Step  5:  Reducing  the  amount  to  reflect  any  mitigating  factors  including 
 
ability  to  pay.  The  Commissioner  does  not  believe  that  there  are  any 
 
mitigating  factors  relevant  to  step  5  even  though  new  procedures  have 
 
been  implemented  and  better  training  and  written  policies  have  been 
 
applied.  The  Commissioner  expects  any  organisation  to  have  these  in 
 
place  as  a  matter  of  course.  However,  taking 
into  account  the 
 
 
Commissioner's  current  policy  and  its  action  on  previous  cases,  the 
 
Commissioner reduced the value of the fine to £7,500. 
  
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The amount of the penalty 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

94.  For  the  reasons  explained  above,  the  Commissioner  is  satisfied  that  the 
 
conditions  from  the  factors  set  out in  Article  83(2)  of  the  UK  GDPR  have 
 
been  met in this case and that he has  adopted fair procedure.  The latter 
 
has included issuing a Notice of Intent, in which the Commissioner set out 
 
his  preliminary  thinking.  The  Central  YMCA  had the  opportunity  to  make 
 
written  representations  in  response  to  the  Notice  of  Intent  but  instead 
 
has  decided  to  accept  the  Notice  of  Intent  and  the  Commissioner's 
 
findings. 
  
 
In  making  his  decision,  the  Commissioner  has  also  had  regard  to  the 
 
factors set out in s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015; including: the 
 
nature  and  level  of  risks  associated  with  non-compliance,  including  the 
 
risks  to  economic  growth;  the  steps  taken  by  the  business  to  achieve 
 
compliance  and  reasons  for  its  failure;  the  willingness  and  ability  of  the 
 
business  to  address  non-compliance;  the  likely  impact  of  the  proposed 
 

95. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

27 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 

intervention  on  the  business,  and  the  likely  impact  of  the  proposed 
 
intervention on the wider business community, both in terms of deterring 
 
non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate businesses. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
96.  Taking  into  account  all  of  the  factors  set  out  above,  the  Commissioner 
 
has decided to impose a penalty on the Central YMCA of £7,500 (seven 
 
thousand and five hundred pounds). 
 

 
   

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Conclusion 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

97.  The monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner's office by BACS 
 
transfer  or  cheque  by  3  April 2024  at  the  latest.  The  monetary  penalty 
 
is  not  kept  by  the  Commissioner  but  will  be  paid  into  the  Consolidated 
 
Fund  which  is  the  Government's  general  bank  account  at  the  Bank  of 
 
England. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

98.  There  is  a  right  of  appeal  to  the  First-tier  Tribunal  (Information  Rights) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
against: 
 

 

 

a)  The imposition of the penalty; and/or, 
 
b)  The amount of the penalty specified in the penalty notice 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

99.  Any notice of appeal should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days of 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the date of this penalty notice. 
 
 

 

 

 

100.  The Commissioner will not take action to enforce a penalty unless: 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the  period  specified  within  the  notice  within  which  a  penalty  must  be 
 
paid has expired and all or any of the penalty has not been paid; 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 
 

 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

  all  relevant  appeals  against  the  penalty  notice  and  any  variation  of  it 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

have either been decided or withdrawn; and 
 
the period for appealing against the penalty and any variation of it has 
 
 
expired 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

101.  In  England,  Wales  and  Northern  Ireland,  the  penalty  is  recoverable  by 
 
Order of the County Court or the High Court. In Scotland, the penalty can 
 
be  enforced  in the  same  manner  as  an extract  registered decree  arbitral 
 
bearing  a  warrant  for  execution  issued  by  the  sheriff  court  of  any 
 
sheriffdom in Scotland. 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

102.  Your  attention  is  drawn  to  Annex  1  to  this  Notice,  which  sets  out  details 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of your rights of appeal under s.162 DPA 2018. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

Dated the 6th day of March 2024 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Anthony Luhman 
 
Temporary Director of Investigations 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

29 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
ANNEX  1  

Rights  of  appeal  against  decisions  of  the  Commissioner  

 

 

 

 

 

   

Section 162 of the Data Protection Act 2018 gives any person upon 
 
whom a penalty notice or variation notice has been served a right 
   
 
of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the 
 
Tribunal') against the notice. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If  you  decide  to  appeal  and  if  the  Tribunal  considers:-

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

a) 
 

 

b) 
 

 

 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is 
 
 
not in accordance with the law; or 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of 
 
discretion by the Commissioner, that she ought to have 
 
exercised her discretion differently 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision 
 
as could have been made by the Commissioner. In any other case 
 
the Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the 
 
Tribunal at the following address: 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
GRC & GRP Tribunals 
 
PO Box 9300 
 
Arnhem House 
 
31 Waterloo Way 
 
Leicester 
  
LE1 8DJ 
 

 
 

 

 

 

30 
 

1. 
 

2. 
 

3. 
 

 

 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

a) 
 

 
b) 
 

 

 

 

 

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
 
Email: grc@justice.gov.uk 
  
 
The notice of appeal should be sent so it is received 
 
by the Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the 
 
 
notice. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not 
 
admit it unless the Tribunal has extended the time for 
 
 
complying with this rule. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  notice  of  appeal  should  state:-

 

 

 

 

 
 

  

a) 
 

b) 
 
c) 
 
d) 
 
e) 
 
f) 
 
g) 
 

h) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

your name and address/name and address of your representative (if 
 
any); 
 
an address where documents may be sent or delivered to you; 
 
 
the name and address of the Information Commissioner; 
 
details of the decision to which the proceedings relate; 
 
the result that you are seeking; 
 
the grounds on which you rely; 
 
you must provide with the notice of appeal a copy of the penalty 
 
notice or variation notice; 
 
if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above the notice of 
 
 
appeal must include a request for an extension of time and the 
 
reason why the notice of appeal was not provided in time. 
 

 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Before  deciding  whether  or  not  to  appeal  you  may  wish  to  consult  your 
 
solicitor  or  another  adviser.  At  the  hearing  of  an  appeal  a  party  may 
 
conduct  his  case  himself  or  may  be  represented  by  any  person  whom  he 
 
may  appoint  for  that  purpose. 
 

 
 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31 
 

4. 
 

 

5. 
 

 
 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

 
6. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

The  statutory  provisions  concerning  appeals  to  the  First-tier  Tribunal 
 
(General  Regulatory  Chamber)  are  contained  in  sections  162  and  163  of, 
 
and  Schedule  16  to,  the  Data  Protection  Act  2018,  and  Tribunal 
 
Procedure  (First-tier  Tribunal)  (General  Regulatory  Chamber)  Rules  2009 
 
(Statutory  Instrument  2009  No.  1976  (L.20)). 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

32 
 

