 

 

 

PRINCIPLE OF DATA PROTECTION
 
OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      

     

Athens, 16-10-2018
 

 

     

Prot. No.: G/EX/8187/16-10-2018
 

 

 

      

 

 A P O F A S H 65/2018

  

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition

Plenary meeting at its headquarters on Tuesday 9-10-2018 following the invitation of its President,

in order to examine the issue of maintaining or modifying the plan

of a list of the details of the processing operations that are subject to the requirement for

carrying out an impact assessment regarding data protection following the

number 7/2018 of the relevant opinion issued by the European Protection Council

Data (ESPDN). The President of the Authority, Constantnos Menoudakos, was present

and the regular members Constantos Christodoulou, Antonios Symvonis, Spyrdon

Vlachopoulos, Constantos Lambrinoudakis, as rapporteur, Charalambos Anthopoulos

and Eleni Martsoukou, also as rapporteur. Present at the meeting, no

with the right to vote, was Ephrosyne Siugle, auditor, as assistant rapporteur and

Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Department of Administrative Affairs, as

secretary.

 

The Authority took into account the following:

With its Decision No. 53/2018, the Authority decided to draw up a draft

of a list of the details of the processing operations that are subject to the requirement for

carrying out a data protection impact assessment (DPA) based

of article 35 par. 4 of the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 679/2016

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

(GDPR). The Authority, before issuing the said list, implemented, according to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided for in article 35 par. 6 of the GDPR, the coherence mechanism which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to in article 63 by announcing the draft list to the ESA. The ESPD
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

during the plenary session of September 25, 2018 issued the opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7/20181 regarding the Authority's EAPD list draft based on article 64 paragraph 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the GDPR. With this opinion, for which the Authority was informed electronically
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

way on October 2, 2018, the EDPS requests the Authority to amend the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

draft list based on the recommendations included therein.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after hearing the rapporteurs and the assistant rapporteur and after thorough
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

discussion,
  

 

SEVENTH E ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. According to article 35, paragraph 1 of the GDPR:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"When a type of processing, i.e. using new technologies and taking into account the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

nature, scope, context and purposes of our processing, may

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

poses a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the person in charge of processing carried out, before the processing, an evaluation of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

effects of the planned processing operations on data protection

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature. In an assessment, a set of similar ones can be considered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing operations that involve similar high risks".

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. According to article 35 par. 3 of the GDPR, the EAPD is required in particular as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

following cases:
  

 

"(...) a) systematic and extensive assessment of personal aspects regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

natural persons, which is based on automated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing,
 

including profile training, and on which decisions are based
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

produce legal results regarding the natural person or entity they affect

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                  
1 The opinion 7/2018 of the EDPS is available at the online address: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-
 
 
work-tools/our-documents/opinion-board-art-64/opinion-greece-sas-dpia-list_en

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

significantly the natural person,
  

 

 

 

b) a large amount of processing of the special categories of data that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to in Article 9 paragraph 1 or personal data which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

concern criminal convictions and offenses referred to in article 10 or
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c) systematic monitoring of the public as an accessible space on a large scale
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(…)".

 

3. To provide a coherent interpretation of our processing operations in such
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to the high risk posed by the Group, it is required to carry out an EAPD
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our Article 29 Committee issued the "Guidelines for the assessment of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impact on data protection (DPA) and determination of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

whether the processing "may entail a high risk" for its purposes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of regulation 2016/679" (WP248)2, which were approved by the EDPS during the first
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

its entirety. These guidelines are primarily aimed at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clarification of the concept of high risk and set the criteria for it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

compilation of the lists to be approved by the Data Protection Authorities
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

based on article 35 par. 4 of the GDPR. Also, the purpose of the above text is yes or no
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

facilitation of the work of EPSD and the facilitation of our processors
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which have the obligation to carry out an impact assessment.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. According to articles 35 par. 4 and par. 6 of the GDPR:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"(par. 4) The supervisory authority prepares and publishes a list of the names of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing operations that are subject to the requirement to carry out an evaluation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impact on data protection pursuant to paragraph 1. H
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervisory authority announces the list in question to the Protection Council
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data referred to in article 68".
 

 

 

 

 

 

"(par. 6) Before issuing the lists referred to in paragraphs 4
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 5, the competent supervisory authority applies the coherence mechanism which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

referred to in Article 63, if those lists include activities
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

process related to the offer of goods or services to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                  
2 The WP248 guidelines are available online
 
 
https://edpb.europa.eu/node/70 and http://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/article29/item-
detail.cfm?item_id=611236.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3

data subjects or by monitoring their behavior in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more than one Member State or which may significantly affect it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

free circulation of personal data in the Union".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5. According to article 64 par. 1, 3, 6, 7 and 8 of the GDPR:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"(par. 1) The Council issues an opinion whenever a competent supervisory authority intends to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

adopt any of the following measures. For this purpose, the competent authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervisory authority announces the draft decision to the Council, when: a) purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the approval of a list of processing operations subject to the requirement for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

carrying out a data protection impact assessment under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of article 35 paragraph 4 (…)".
 

 

 

 

 

"(par. 3) In the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Council
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data Protection issues an opinion on the subject matter submitted to it,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

since it has not already issued an opinion on the matter. This opinion is issued
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

within a period of eight weeks by a simple majority of the members of the Council
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Let's protect Data. This deadline could be extended by six more
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

weeks, taking into account the complexity of the matter(...)".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"(par. 6) The competent supervisory authority does not approve the draft decision referred to
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in paragraph 1 within the deadline referred to in paragraph 3".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"(par. 7) The supervisory authority referred to in paragraph 1 receives in particular
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

taking into account the opinion of the Data Protection Officer and, within two weeks
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

upon receipt of the opinion, informs the President of the Council
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Let's protect Data by electronic means whether to keep or not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

amend the draft decision and, if applicable, the amended one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

draft decision, using a standard format'.
 

 

 

 

 

"(par. 8) When the supervisory authority concerned informs its President
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data Protection Advisor, within the deadline referred to in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph 7 of this article, that he does not intend to follow his opinion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our Data Protection Advisor, in whole or in part, providing the relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reason a, Article 65 paragraph 1 shall apply".
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. In accordance with the recommendations contained in opinion 7/2018, the EDPS requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

by the Authority to amend the draft EAPD list as follows:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a. Regarding reference to WP248 guidelines: to add
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the draft catalog is based on the WP248 guidelines for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the impact assessment, which it supplements and further specifies.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b. Regarding the meaning of the big kl maca: to delete the quantitative ones
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

criteria and to add a reference to the definitions of the large kl maca
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as listed in the guidelines for the Responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data Protection (WP243) and impact assessment (WP248).
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c. About the data processing that is carried out with the use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implant: to state that only the processing of health data with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of an implant is subject to the requirement to perform an excision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impact.
 

 

7. In view of the above, the Authority, after taking into account and examining the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recommendations, considers unanimously that the opinion 7/2018 of the EDPS should be accepted, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

make the necessary changes to the draft list he has submitted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

initially to the EMS and to announce the amended list to the EMS.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8. For this purpose a) mention is added that the EAPD list is based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WP248 guidelines, which it complements and further specifies,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b) the quantitative criteria included in the original plan are removed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

directory to define the large processing load and is added
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reference to the relevant definitions of the WP243 guidelines and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WP248 and c) item 2.2.5 of the catalog is amended by removing the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

prediction for the use of implants given that the processing of data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

health with the use of implants is covered by point 2.1 and in combination
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with reference to 3.1.
 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5

The Authority unanimously decides to amend the draft list with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the processing operations that are subject to the requirement to carry out an evaluation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impact based on the recommendations of opinion 7/2018 of the EDPS and its announcement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a modified list in the ESA. Following this, the amended list
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is structured as follows:
  

 

 

  

 disproportionate to the types of processing operations they are subject to
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the requirement to carry out a protection impact assessment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data in accordance with article 35 par. 4 of the 3rd PD
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Legal basis
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

In accordance with Article 35 para. 4 of the GDPR, the supervisory authority also prepares
 
publish a list of the details of the processing operations subject to
 
request for a data protection impact assessment
 
(EAPD) pursuant to par. 1 and announces this list to the European
 
Data Protection Board (DPA).
  
 

If this list includes processing activities such as
 
are related to the offer of goods or services to data subjects or with
 
the monitoring of their behavior in more than one member state or the
 
which may significantly affect the free circulation of data
 
in the Union, the coherence mechanism referred to in Article 63 shall apply.
 
 
Square
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

The DPA is required when a type of processing, namely with the use of new
 
technologies and taking into account the nature, the field of application, the context and the
 
purposes of our processing, may pose a high risk to the rights and
 
the freedoms of natural persons (article 35 par. 1 of the GDPR). Indicative
 
cases in which an EAPD is required are listed in article 35 paragraph 3
 
 
of the GDPR.
  
 
 

 
To provide a more coherent set of processing operations that require
 
carrying out EARP due to the high risk involved, its Working Group
 
Article 29 issued the guidelines with the title "Guidelines for
 
the data protection impact assessment (DPA) and
 
determining whether the processing "may entail a high risk" for
 
the purposes of regulation 2016/679" (WP248 rev.01). The above guidelines
 
lines define nine criteria that managers should use
 
process to determine whether or not an EAP should be carried out.
 
 
Definition of the large kl maka
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In determining whether processing is carried out on a large scale
 
it is recommended that the following parameters be specifically taken into account based on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6

of the aforementioned WP248 guidelines as well as the guidelines
 
of lines with the line "Guidelines on data protection officers
 
data” (WP243):
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a. the number of data subjects involved, specifically
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number as a percentage of the relevant population;
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

b. the volume of data and/or the range of different data items that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
undergo processing;
  

 
 

 

 

 

c. the duration or permanent nature of our data processing activity;
  
 
d. the geographical scope of our processing activity.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Processing operations subject to a GDPR requirement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

This list groups and further specifies the details of the acts
 
of processing that are subject to the requirement to carry out a DPA with quotation and
 
indicative examples. This list is not exhaustive and it is not
 
the obligation to carry out an EAPD in each case is neither preserved nor changed
 
compliance with the conditions of article 35 par. 1 of the GDPR. The directory in question
 
is based on article 35 of the GDPR and its paragraphs 1 and 3 as well as on
 
impact assessment guidelines (WP248), which complement
 
and specializes further.
 
 

 
The criteria for carrying out EAPD are grouped into the following three
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

blame:
 

 
-

-

 
 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

1st category: based on the data and purposes of processing.
  
2nd category: based on the type of data and/or their categories
 
subjects.
 
3rd category a: based on the additional features and/or those used
 
 
 
through processing let's.
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

The implementation of EAPD is considered mandatory when at least one of the following is met
 
criteria of the 1st or 2nd category let. Yes, it is also mandatory when one occurs
 
at least criterion for the 3rd category and the processing concerns especially
 
 
1st
charge, and/or with public data and/or charges
processing purposes
 
 
 
subjects of the 2nd category let.
  
 
1st category: first and purpose of processing
 
 
 
1.1 Systematic assessment, grading, prediction, prognosis and training
 
profl, id as aspects concerning the financial situation, the health, the
 
personal preferences or interests, credibility or behavior, position
 
 
or the movements or creditworthiness of the data subjects.
 
  

 
Related examples are yes the case, when a financial
 
 strictly checks its customers based on creditworthiness data or
 
data for the fight against money laundering
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

activities and terrorist financing or data on
 
fraud crimes, or the event, in which a biotechnology company provides
 
direct to consumers genetic tests to assess and predict
 
 
the risks of disease/health.
  
 
 
1.2 Systematic data processing aimed at receiving automated
 
decisions, which produce legal results regarding the subjects
 
of the data or significantly affect the data subjects by
 
 
in a similar way and may lead to exclusion or discrimination against him
 
 
natural person.
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Related examples include the automatic denial of an online credit card
 
or electronic recruitment practices without human intervention (ref. 71 of
 
 
GDPR) or the automatic refusal of insurance provision.
  
 
 
1.3 Systematic data processing that may prevent the subject from
 
 
exercise his rights or use a service or contract, i.e.
 
 
when data collected by them are taken into account.
 

 
Relevant examples are the case, when the bank controls them
 
its customers using a credit rating database to
 
to decide whether to grant them a loan or not, the registration of the subject in
 
"black" network, such as the network of mobile phone providers (telephones), the
 
registration of the subject in whistleblowing systems.
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
1.4 Systematic data processing concerning the preparation of profiles for the purpose
 
of the promotion of products and services if the data is combined with
 
data collected by them.
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
1.5 Systematic and large-scale processing for monitoring, the
 
observation or control of natural persons using data that
 
collected through video surveillance systems or through networks or by any
 
another medium in public space, public as accessible space or private accessible space
 
to an unlimited number of people. Includes tracking of movements
 
or the location/geographical location in real time or not of identified or
 
 
 
identifiable natural persons.
  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Related examples are the use of cameras in a shopping center or in stations
 
means of mass transport, or the processing of passenger location data in
 
airport or on public transport. Also, tracking via wi-fi
 
systems (wi-fi tracking) of visitors to shopping centers or processing a
 
data via drones.
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
1.6 Large-scale systematic processing of personal data
 
concerning health and public health for purposes of public interest,
 
such as the introduction and use of electronic prescription systems and
 
introduction and use of an electronic file or an electronic health card.
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8



 

 
1.7 Large-scale systematic processing of personal data with
 
for the purpose of introducing, organizing, providing and controlling the use of services
 
electronic governance, as defined in article 3 of Law 3979/2011 as
 
apply.
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

kl makas
 

2nd category: type of data and/or categories of subjects
 
 
2.1 Megalis
 

process a
 
 

 
data
 
(including genetic and biometric for the purpose of
 
indisputable identification of a person) referred to in article 9 par. 1 and
 
of the data referred to in article 10 of the GDPR.
 
 
 
 
of exceptional character as
 

2.2 Systematic and large-scale processing of particularly important data or
 

categories
 
 

of
 
 

specialists
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.2.1 social welfare data (data on poverty,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unemployed, social work, etc.),
  
 
 

2.2.2 electronic communications data, including data
 
content such as e-mail, metadata and
 
of geographic location/location data, with the exception of
 
recording of telephone conversations in accordance with article 4 par. 3 thereof
 
Law 3471/2006,
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.2.3 data relating to a national identity number or other identifier
 
general application identification number or change of conditions and
 
terms of processing and use of these and related data
 
personal,
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.2.4 data included in personal documents, diaries,
 
notes from an electronic reader (e-reader) and in applications
 
life logging, which offer monitoring capabilities
 
notes and very personal information,
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.2.5 data collected or generated by devices (such as those with
 
sensors) i.e. through the applications of the 'internet of things' -
   
IoT' (such as smart TVs, smart home devices, connected
 
games, smart cities, smart energy meters, etc.) and/or with
 
use of other means.
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
2.3 Systematic monitoring – if it is permissible – of the position/location
 
as well as the content and metadata of their communications
 
employees with the exception of the records for security reasons if n
 
processing is limited to absolutely necessary data and is specific
 
documented. A relevant example that falls under the obligation to carry out an EAPD
 
 
was the use of DLP systems.
  
Systematic processing of biometric data of employees for the purpose of
 
indisputable identification of a person as well as their genetic data
 
workers.
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

3rd category: additional features and/or used means of our processing
 
 
 
3.1 Innovative use or application of new technologies or organizational solutions, such as
 
may include new forms of data collection and use, with
 
possible high risk for the rights and freedoms of individuals
 
of persons such as the combined use of fingerprints and
 
facial recognition for improved physical access control, or applications
 
mhealth or other "smart" applications, from which profiles are created
 
users (e.g. daily habits), or artificial intelligence applications or
 
publicly accessible blockchain technologies that include personal
 
data.
 
 
 
3.2 Combining and/or correlating personal data from multiple sources or sources,
 
from two or more processing operations implemented for different
 
purposes and/or by different controllers let us process in a way that will
 
 
could exceed the reasonable expectations of the data subject.
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
3.3 In case the processing concerns data, which have not been collected by
 
the subject and the information of the subjects in accordance with Article 14 GDPR
 
proves impossible or would require a disproportionate effort or is likely to
 
make impossible or seriously impair the achievement of its purposes
 
let's edit.
  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Revision of the directory
 
 
The above list is subject to a regular review every two years or an extraordinary one
 
revision in case of significant developments at a technological level or at
 
business models, as well as in the event of a change in its purposes
 
let's process since the young people for this purpose involve a high risk.
  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The president
 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Constantinos Menoudakos
 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10

