DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

 

 

 

 

 
PROTECTION REGULATION 

 

TO: Dover Harbour Board 

 

REPRIMAND 

 
OF: Harbour House, Waterloo Crescent, Dover, Kent, CT17 9BU 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
1.1 The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a 
 
reprimand to Dover Harbour Board in accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of 
 
 
the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR)/Schedule 13(2)(c) 
 
 
of the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) in respect of certain 
   
infringements of the DPA 2018. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The reprimand 

 

 
1.2 The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to Dover Harbour 
Board in respect of the following infringements of the DPA 2018: 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Section 35(1) which states that “the processing of personal data for 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any of the law enforcement purposes must be lawful and fair”; 

 

 

 

 

 

  Section 40 which states that “personal data processed for any of the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

law enforcement purposes must be so processed in a manner that 
ensures appropriate security of the personal data, using appropriate 
technical or organisational measures (and, in this principle, 
“appropriate security” includes protection against unauthorised or 
unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or 
damage)”; 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Background 

 

 

 

 

 

 
A reprimand is being issued to Dover Harbour Board in respect of the 
 
creation and use of a social media distribution group, initially created in 
 
 
WhatsApp but later migrated to Telegram. From the evidence provided to 
 
the ICO, the distribution groups were used by multiple UK police forces 
and international law enforcement agencies for the purpose of combatting 
 
vehicle crime. 

   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
The distribution groups were created by an officer from the Port of Dover 
 
Police. The Port of Dover Police is a non-Home Office Constabulary that is 
   
funded entirely by the Port Authority, Dover Harbour Board, to provide a 
 
general policing service at the Port of Dover. Dover Harbour Board 
 
advised the ICO the constables of the Port of Dover Police are its 
 
 
employees. Therefore it is considered that Dover Harbour Board is the 
 
relevant data controller in respect of this matter. 

 
 
 

 
 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
   
 

 
 
 
1.3 The reasons for the Commissioner’s provisional findings are set out 
  
below. 
 
 
1.4 This reprimand concerns the processing of personal data and special 
 
category data via the creation and use of a social media distribution group 
 
(the Group) initially created on WhatsApp and subsequently transferred to 
 
Telegram in 2020. Dover Harbour Board is of the opinion that no personal 
 
data has been processed during members’ use of the Group. However 
 
 
from the evidence provided, the ICO does not share this view. It is 
 
considered that Dover Harbour Board failed to give adequate or 
 
appropriate consideration to compliance with data protection legislation, 
 
 
either that in place at the time the Group was created on WhatsApp or 
 
subsequently upon the introduction of the DPA 2018. The use of the 
 
 
Group began prior to the implementation of the DPA 2018 however for 
 
the purpose of this reprimand, the period of contravention is considered 
 
to be May 2018 until February 2021, and specifically: 
 
 
1.5 The Group was initially created by an officer from the Port of Dover 
 
Police (Officer A) using his personal mobile phone for the purpose of 
 
combatting vehicle crime. Multiple senior officers supervising the officer 
 
who set up the distribution Group were aware over the timeframe during 
 
 
which the Group existed of his intention to create, promote and use the 
 
Group. However no evidence has been provided to demonstrate that 
 
adequate consideration was afforded to compliance with data protection 
 
legislation nor were members of the Group informed about data 
 
protection requirements. Officer A’s supervisor had removed himself from 
 
the WhatsApp Group prior to its migration to Telegram due to the volume 
 
of messages being processed but was aware of the continuation of the 
 
Group on Telegram. Officer A also stated that several of his supervising 
 
 
officers during the lifetime of the use of the Group had been members of 
 
it, which is considered to be further evidence of supervisory management 
 
 
awareness of both the existence of, and purpose of, the Group on 
 
WhatsApp and Telegram over a sustained period of time. This is 
 
considered to be evidence of inadequate awareness of, or compliance 
 
with, data protection considerations on a corporate level and represents 
 
an infringement of section 40 of the DPA 2018. 
 
 
1.6 It was stated that the Group was migrated from WhatsApp to 
 
Telegram as a result of several members of the Group having suggested 
 
that Telegram was a more secure network. However, it is understood that 
 
although the App is encrypted the default user settings do not have 
 
adequate encryption automatically activated, with users being required to 
 
individually implement privacy settings. It was noted that if these are not 
 
understood or implemented correctly, the content of chats, files and 
 
 
shares can be placed at risk, with most messages being cloud chats which 
 
 
are stored on Telegram’s servers and can be accessed by Telegram. The 

 
 
   
 

 
   
 

 
   
 

 
   
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

   
 

   
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
   
 
 

 
servers were noted to be hosted in the Netherlands although the 
 
possibility for data to be shared to Dubai or other parent company owned 
 
locations was also noted. Therefore access to the personal data shared via 
 
Telegram cannot be considered to be securely held or access adequately 
 
 
restricted which is considered to represent an infringement of section 40 
 
of the DPA 2018. 
 
 
1.7 Access to the Group was via the personal mobile devices of Port of 
 
 
Dover Police officers and no information in respect of privacy settings or 
 
data security was provided to Group members. It is therefore likely that 
 
personal data relating to individuals about whom intelligence was being 
 
sought would be saved on these personal devices in the form of 
 
photographs and message content. Officially provided devices routinely 
 
have enhanced levels of security and encryption that are not usually 
 
present on personal devices, unless specifically implemented by users. 
 
While it is acknowledged that Dover Harbour Board had no control over 
 
security settings on its officers’ personal devices, the lack of enhanced 
 
security measures is considered to be weakness in respect of the security 
 
of personal data being processed for official purposes and data held on 
  
personal devices would potentially be at risk of access by third parties. 
 
This is considered to be evidence that Dover Harbour Board has not 
 
 
ensured the appropriate security of personal data being processed for 
 
official purposes as required by section 40 of the DPA 2018. 
 
 
1.8 Dover Harbour Board stated there was no evidence that a risk 
 
assessment was undertaken either upon the setting up of the WhatsApp 
 
 
Group or its migration to Telegram and that no Terms of Reference for the 
 
Group had been published. Furthermore, that there was no written 
 
 
constitution for the Group and little supervision of it; there was no real 
 
 
oversight of members or individual posts that were made; there was no 
 
process in place for removing members from the Group who left law 
 
 
enforcement employment; and those with administration duties for the 
 
 
 
 
Group were unclear of their role and no training was provided. The lack of 
 
evidence of adequate safeguards being in place with respect to 
 
 
 
membership and constitution of the Group is considered to be evidence of 
 
 
a lack of appropriate records management in place for a forum designed 
 
to share personal data. This demonstrates an overall lack of consideration 
 
for, and compliance with, data protection legislation which represents an 
 
infringement of section 40 of the DPA 2018. 
 
 
1.9 A total of 241 officers were members of the Group, which together 
 
with the nature of the personal data being shared, is evidence of the 
 
potential for wide-ranging impact on affected data subjects. Affected 
 
individuals were not informed that their personal data was being 
 
 
processed on a social media App or that copies of their personal data 
 
were being uploaded, and would have no reasonable expectation of this 
 
occurring. This raises concerns with respect to transparency and a denial 

   
 

   
 

 
   

 
   

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
   

   
 
 

 
of data subject rights and represents an infringement of section 35(1) of 
 
the DPA 2018. 
  
 
 
1.10 Dover Harbour Board provided evidence of data protection training 
undertaken by staff, which was stated to be mandatory and undertaken 
 
annually. However the content made no reference to the processing of 
 
personal data for law enforcement/policing purposes; and made no 
 
 
specific reference to the processing of personal data by policing 
 
organisations. Dover Harbour Board provided no evidence that prior to 
 
 
the incident occurring data protection training in respect of the processing 
 
 
of personal data for law enforcement/policing purposes was made 
 
available to staff. While the training evidenced is considered adequate to 
 
give a broad overview of the principles of data protection, and the content 
 
 
adequate for a commercial organisation handling minimal amounts of 
 
 
personal data, it is not considered adequate for operational policing 
 
purposes. It is considered that additional information specifically in 
 
 
respect of law enforcement/policing purposes as set out in the DPA 2018 
 
 
would be required in order for an officer to be sufficiently informed of 
 
their responsibilities in respect of compliance with current legislation. 
 
Furthermore, relevant policies provided by Dover Harbour Board did not 
 
 
provide on review, enough information on the use of social media that 
 
 
could serve to educate officers on the correct handling procedures for 
 
 
official purposes. These issues are indicative of a lack of corporate 
 
awareness of the content of training and policies; a failure to ensure staff 
 
have received appropriate data protection training; and a lack of 
 
adequate awareness of data protection legislation requirements. This is 
 
 
 
supported by the fact that none of the supervising officers who were 
 
 
stated to be aware of the existence of the Group identified that use of it 
   
was likely to contravene data protection legislation and is considered to 
 
be evidence of an infringement of section 40 of the DPA 2018. 
 
 
Remedial steps taken by Dover Harbour Board 
 
 
1.11 The Commissioner has also considered and welcomes the remedial 
 
steps taken by Dover Harbour Board in the light of this incident. In 
 
particular. 
 
 
 
1.12  All officers from Port of Dover Police were instructed to cease all 
activity linked to the Group on 17 February 2021. 
 
 
1.13  All officers would undertake a higher level of training in respect of 
 
 
knowledge of data protection legislation. Additionally, Port of Dover Police 
 
officers had been enrolled on the College of Policing’s online training 
 
regarding the requirements of the DPA 2018 in relation to the processing 
 
 
of personal data for law enforcement purposes. 
 
 

   
 

 
 
 

   

   

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   
 

 
   
 

1.14  The Board would consider whether further guidance should be given 
 
to staff on the type of information that might be shared during the use of 
 
 
social media groups. 
 
 
1.15  Dover Harbour Board’s IT department should give instruction to all 
 
 
officers who still had the WhatsApp/Telegram Apps on how to delete 
 
 
associated data. 
  
 
Decision 
 
 
 
1.16 Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the 
remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to 
  
Dover Harbour Board in relation to the infringements of sections of the 
 
 
DPA 2018 set out above. 
 
 
1.17 The ICO considered notifying Dover Harbour Board of its intention to 
 
 
impose an administrative penalty in the amount of £500,000. However, 
 
since June 2022 the ICO has adopted a revised approach to public sector 
 
enforcement and, on this occasion, we have decided not to impose an 
 
administrative penalty.1 
 
 
Further  Action  Recommended  
 
 
1.18 The Commissioner has set out below certain recommendations which 
may assist Dover Harbour Board in rectifying the infringements outlined in 
 
this reprimand and ensuring Dover Harbour Board’s future compliance 
 
with the UK GDPR and DPA 2018. Please note that these 
 
recommendations do not form part of the reprimand and are not legally 
 
 
binding directions. As such, any decision by Dover Harbour Board to 
 
follow these recommendations is voluntary and a commercial decision for 
 
 
Dover Harbour Board. For the avoidance of doubt, Dover Harbour Board is 
 
of course required to comply with its obligations under the law. 
  
 
 
1.19 If in the future the ICO has grounds to suspect that Dover Harbour 
Board is not complying with data protection law, any failure by Dover 
 
Harbour Board to rectify the infringements set out in this reprimand 
 
(which could be done by following the Commissioner’s recommendations 
 
or taking alternative appropriate steps) may be taken into account as an 
 
aggravating factor in deciding whether to take enforcement action - see 
 
 
page 11 of the Regulatory Action Policy Regulatory Action Policy (ico.org.uk) and 
Article 83(2)(i) of the UK GDPR/section 155(3)(e) DPA 2018. 
 
 
1.20 The Commissioner recommends that Dover Harbour Board should 
 
consider taking certain steps to improve its compliance with the DPA 
 

 
   
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 ICO sets out revised approach to public sector enforcement | ICO. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 
 

 

 

 

 

 
2018. With particular reference to sections 35(1) and 40 of the DPA 2018, 
 
the following steps are recommended: 
 
 
1.  Review existing policies and procedures to ensure that content is 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
adequate in respect of compliance with data protection legislation. 
 
Particular consideration should be given to data subject rights during 
 
the processing of personal data and special category data for policing 
  
purposes. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
2.  Conduct a review of the content of data protection training to ensure 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
that training provided is relevant to, and adequate for, the staff 
 
members receiving it. Ensure that all Port of Dover Police officers are 
 
provided with, and undertake, training that includes adequate 
 
information in respect of the processing of personal data for law 
 
enforcement purposes, ensuring that sufficient prominence is given to 
 
the requirement for consideration of data subject rights. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
3.  Adequate instruction and guidance should be issued to staff in respect 
 
of the use of any officially approved App, particular those with links to 
 
social media, with employees and Port of Dover Police officers required 
 
to confirm that issued instruction and guidance has been read and 
 
understood in order for Dover Harbour Board to be satisfied that all 
 
staff are aware of their compliance responsibilities during App usage. 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
4.  Conduct an investigation into the use by staff of other social media 
 
groups. If use of any is found, produce clear instructions for staff to 
 
 
follow in respect of the use of personal devices and the processing of 
 
 
personal data gathered as a result of usage in order to ensure future 
 
compliance with data protection legislation. 

 
   

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
The ICO invites Dover Harbour Board to update the ICO on the progress 
 
of implementing the recommendations made. 
 
 
Date: 5 March 2024 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 
 

