1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00352/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated March 2, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The
reasons on which the claim is based are "the neighbors have installed several security cameras
video-surveillance focused on my property and in particular, a camera is
focusing directly on a bedroom window (...)-folio nº 1--.

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Annex I) that proves the

presence of video surveillance cameras.

SECOND: On 07/15/20 a reply is received from the respondent requesting
"Period extension"

“The cameras referred to in the requirement are cameras that are
installed directed solely at my farm, since they were continually forcing me
the door or accessing a booth where I keep things that belong to me. For the purpose of
be able to provide all the documentation to justify this point, we request that you
extend the deadline for one more month to provide all the required information”.

THIRD: When the database of this Agency was consulted on 12/28/20, no
received any response accrediting the legality of the system in question.

FOURTH: On January 5, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: The database of this Agency consulted on 02/04/21 has not been
received any response, nor accreditation of the legality of the system has been
produced.

SIXTH: On 02/04/21, a resolution proposal is issued confirming the infraction
described, without any statement having been made in this regard.

SEVENTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
procedure, remembering full accessibility to the administrative file.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

PROVEN FACTS

First. The reasons on which the claim is based are "the neighbors have installed several
video-surveillance cameras focused on my property and in particular, a camera
it is focusing directly on a bedroom window (...)-folio nº 1--.

Second. The resident of
the town Doña B.B.B..

Third. Consta confirms the presence of several cameras on top of a post that
its features may be obtaining data from third parties without just cause.

Fourth. There is no evidence that the system has an information poster for legal purposes
pertinent, indicating where appropriate the data controller.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 03/02/20 is examined by me-
gave from which is transferred as the main fact:

“The neighbors have installed several video-surveillance cameras focusing towards
my property and in particular, a camera is pointed directly at the window of
a bedroom (…)-folio nº 1--.

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

With this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of public space either.
co, as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies
ted.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
must be oriented towards private space, since it is considered that this type of
devices can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimidated by the
herself in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
penalty, it is considered that the defendant has a video-surveillance system
that could affect the adjoining property in an unjustified manner.

The accused party has not proven its legality, providing all

the necessary evidence for its analysis by this Agency.

The art. 83.5 RGPD provides the following: “Infringements of the following provisions
will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines of 20
EUR 000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount.
to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

IV

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation provides
ne in your art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than a sanction.
tion by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must, however, lend
special attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its character
intentional, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the degree
liability or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the authority
control authority has become aware of the infraction, compliance with measures
measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, adherence to codes of con-
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

The individual status of the accused is taken into account, as well as the

presence of previous infractions to impose a warning sanction.

The denounced party must prove the legality of the system providing all the
precise evidence for this (eg screen printing, information poster, number of
cameras, reason for installation, etc).

It is recalled that not meeting the requirements of this Agency may result in
gar to the opening of a new sanctioning procedure for the infringement of art. 72

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

section 1 letter m) LOPDGDD “Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the
competent data protection authority in the exercise of the powers conferred
re Article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

The complaining party, in case the conduct persists, must transfer the
"facts" to the State Security Forces and Bodies of the locality, so that they
displaced to the scene of the events, prepare a report in this regard, which will be transferred
to this body for the evaluation of the opening, if any, of a new
penalty procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE Doña B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of Article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning
I lie.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. and REPORT the result
of the proceedings to the A.A.A. claimant.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-131120
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

