 
 

 

 

Record no. 3021/452/2017 
1 (10) 
20 February 2020 

 

 
Decision 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman’s decision on informing 
data subjects of recording telephone calls and the data sub-
ject’s right of access to data 

Matter 

Informing data subjects of recording customer telephone calls and the data subject’s 
right of access to data  

The applicant’s claims with grounds 

The applicant requested the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman to take 
measures for issuing an order concerning the rights of the data subject on 28 Sep-
tember 2017. The applicant had asked an electricity company (“controller”) where it 
had learned which electricity company’s customer the applicant was. The applicant 
also asked what other data the controller had about the applicant. According to the 
applicant, the controller has not supplied the requested information.  

Information from the applicant 

The applicant reported having received an electricity sales call from a salesperson in 
the employ of the controller. According to the applicant, the salesperson had implied 
that they were representing the electricity company whose customer the applicant 
was. During the telephone call, the applicant realised that the call was not being 
made on behalf of the electricity company whose customer the applicant was. Rather, 
the caller was a salesperson employed by another electricity company, i.e. the con-
troller referred to in the complaint.  

The applicant then sent a request to the controller after the sales call, asking for infor-
mation on how the controller knew which company supplied electricity to the applicant 
and what other data the controller had on the applicant. A sales manager in the em-
ploy of the controller then contacted the applicant by telephone. During this call, the 
manager played a recording of the sales call between the salesperson and applicant. 
In their complaint, the applicant states that they were not aware of the sales call be-
ing recorded. According to the applicant, the controller also did not inform the appli-
cant of where it had obtained the information on which electricity supplier’s customer 
the applicant was. In the applicant’s words, the sales manager that contacted the ap-
plicant said that it was a generally known fact that the applicant’s electricity supplier 
supplied the electricity for the applicant’s postal code area.  

According to the applicant, they agreed with the sales manager that the recording of 
the sales call between the salesperson and applicant would be delivered to the appli-
cant, along with all other data that the controller had on the applicant. However, the 
applicant stated that the sales manager later asked the applicant to file an official re-
quest for the recording and data requested by the applicant. The controller sent the 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

 
2 (10) 
 

description of its data file to the applicant and informed the applicant that they could 
come to the company’s premises to listen to the recording after submitting an official 
request. The applicant did not file the official request for obtaining the data as sug-
gested by the sales manager. 

The applicant feels that the controller does not treat the obligations of the Personal 
Data Act with the required gravity, since the controller did not have the right to record 
the telephone call between the applicant and controller without informing the appli-
cant of the fact. Furthermore, the applicant is of the opinion that they have not re-
ceived the requested information from the controller.  

1.  Judicial question 

Right of access  

The matter has been instituted at the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman while 
the Personal Data Act was still in force. Therefore, the matter requires the assess-
ment provided for in section 38, subsection 3 of the Data Protection Act on whether 
Articles 12 and 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation can be applied to the 
decision. 

It must then be determined whether the controller has implemented the applicant’s 
request to gain access to the data (right of access) in accordance with the applied 
legislation. 

Choice of applicable law  

The General Data Protection Regulation has been applied since 25 May 2018. As an 
EU Regulation, the GDPR is legislation directly applicable in the Member States. The 
General Data Protection Regulation is specified by the national Data Protection Act 
(1050/2018) that entered into force on 1 January 2019. The Data Protection Act re-
pealed the Personal Data Act (523/1999). 

The repealed Personal Data Act was in force when the applicant requested access to 
their data from the controller. The matter was instituted at the Office of the Data Pro-
tection Ombudsman before the application of the GDPR. The applicant’s request was 
based on the rights provided for in sections 26 and 28 of the Personal Data Act.  

As the matter being assessed is the implementation of the data subject’s right of ac-
cess to data (right of access), the transitional provision of section 38, subsection 3 of 
the Data Protection Act is relevant with regard to the choice of law applied to the de-
cision. According to section 38, subsection 3 of the Data Protection Act, where the 
provisions of Articles 12 and 15–18 of the Data Protection Regulation that impose 
broader obligations on the controller than the provisions in force upon the entry into 
force of the Data Protection Act, those provisions do not apply to such cases of exer-
cise of the right of access that are pending when the Data Protection Act enters into 
force, if the application of the said provisions of the Data Protection Regulation would 
be unreasonable for the controller. 

Application of Articles 12 and 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation  

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

 
3 (10) 
 

According to section 26, subsection 1 of the Personal Data Act, regardless of secrecy 
provisions, everyone has the right of access, after having supplied sufficient search 
criteria, to the data on him/her in a personal data file, or to a notice that the file con-
tains no such data. The controller must at the same time provide the data subject with 
information of the regular sources of data in the file, on the uses for the data in the file 
and the regular destinations of disclosed data.  

According to Article 15(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject 
has the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not personal 
data concerning him or her are being processed, and, where that is the case, access 
to the personal data and the following information: a) the purposes of the processing; 
b) the categories of personal data concerned; c) the recipients or categories of recipi-
ent; d) where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be 
stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; e) the existence 
of the right to request from the controller rectification or erasure of personal data or 
restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data subject or to object to 
such processing; f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; g) 
where the personal data are not collected from the data subject, any available infor-
mation as to their source; and h) the existence of automated decision-making, includ-
ing profiling, referred to in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaning-
ful information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged 
consequences of such processing for the data subject. 

The right of access to data is subject to the provisions of section 26, subsection 1 of 
the Personal Data Act, and the provisions of points (a) to (h) of Article 15(1) are 
nearly identical in substance.  However, the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman 
notes that points (a) to (h) of Article 15(1) of the GDPR provide for more extensive 
data than section 26, subsection 1 of the Personal Data Act, since the subsection in 
question does not grant data subjects the right to receive information corresponding 
to that referred to in points (b), (d), (e) and (f) of Article 15(1) of the GDPR.  

Since the provision applied to the matter at hand imposes broader obligations on the 
controller than the provisions of the Personal Data Act, the matter requires an as-
sessment of whether their application would be unreasonable for the controller. Re-
garding the assessment of the reasonableness of applying points (a) to (h) of Article 
15(1) of the GDPR, the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman notes that, with regard 
to the collection and processing of personal data, the applicant would have had the 
right to receive the information corresponding to points (b) and (e) of Article 15(1) of 
the GDPR from the controller also by virtue of the Personal Data Act. The data sub-
ject had the right to obtain the information corresponding to the above-mentioned 
points (b) and (e) from the controller by virtue of the Personal Data Act (Personal 
Data Act, section 10, subsection 1, paragraph 3), i.e. the information needed for exer-
cising the rights of the data subject in respect to the processing operation in question 
(Personal Data Act, section 24, subsection 1).  

In accordance with the above, the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman finds that, if 
the Personal Data Act were to be applied to the matter, the applicant would have the 
right to obtain information corresponding to points (a), (b), (c), (e), (g) and (h) of Arti-
cle 15(1) of the GDPR. Therefore, only the information referred to in points (d) (stor-
age period) and (f) (right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority) would be 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

 
4 (10) 
 

information that the applicant would not have been entitled to obtain from the control-
ler if the Personal Data Act was applied.  

The provisions concerning the storage period and right to lodge a complaint have no 
bearing on the resolution of the matter. The Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman 
does note, however, that the obligations of the controller pertaining to the information 
provided for in points (d) and (f) of Article 15(1) of the GDPR are also provided for in 
the Personal Data Act. During the application of the Personal Data Act, the controller 
had the obligation to comply with the general rules on the processing of personal data 
provided for in chapter 2 of the Personal Data Act, such as the defined purpose of 
processing and the necessity requirement (Personal Data Act, sections 6 and 9). The 
Personal Data Act also gave the data subject the right to refer the matter to a supervi-
sory authority (Personal Data Act, section 28, subsection 2). The Deputy Data Pro-
tection Ombudsman thus finds that applying points (a) to (h) of Article 15(1) of the 
GDPR is not unreasonable in the matter at hand, taking into account the obligations 
of the controller under the Personal Data Act.   

According to section 28, subsection 1 of the Personal Data Act, anyone who wishes 
to have access to the data on himself/herself, as referred to in section 26, must make 
a request to this effect to the controller by a personally signed or otherwise compara-
bly verified document or by appearing personally in the premises of the controller. 

According to Article 12(2) of the GDPR, the controller must facilitate the exercise of 
data subject rights under Articles 15 to 22. In cases referred to in Article 11(2) of the 
Regulation, the controller may not refuse to act on the data subject’s request to exer-
cise the rights referred to in Articles 15 to 22 unless the controller is able to demon-
strate that it is not in a position to identify the data subject. According to Article 12(6) 
of the GDPR, without prejudice to Article 11, where the controller has reasonable 
doubts concerning the identity of the natural person making the request referred to in 
Articles 15 to 21, the controller may request the provision of additional information 
necessary to confirm the identity of the data subject. 

The General Data Protection Regulation thus does not set any specific formal re-
quirements for the request to obtain access to data. The Personal Data Act required 
the request to be made to the controller by a personally signed or otherwise compa-
rably verified document or by appearing personally in the premises of the controller. 
This could be interpreted to constitute broader obligations for the controller as pro-
vided for in section 38, subsection 3 of the Data Protection Act. The matter thus re-
quires an assessment of whether the application of the provisions of the GDPR would 
be reasonable for the controller.  

It would be unreasonable for the controller to reprimand the controller for not imple-
menting the rights of the data subject if the request was not made in the way referred 
to in section 28, subsection 1 of the Personal Data Act. The purpose of the provision 
in question was to permit the controller to make sure that the person submitting the 
request is the data subject. According to the information received on the matter now 
being decided on, the controller has not doubted the applicant’s role as data subject. 
The controller also replied to the data subject’s request verbally over the telephone 
according to the information received. The result will be the same for the controller 
regardless of whether the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman orders the infor-
mation to be delivered to the data subject or the applicant makes a new request to 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

 
5 (10) 
 

receive the information from the controller. Therefore, also with regard to the appli-
cant’s legal protection, the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman finds that it would 
not be unreasonable for the controller to apply the GDPR’s currently valid provisions 
concerning the form of the request.  

With regard to the format in which the personal data must be delivered, section 28, 
subsection 2 of the Personal Data Act states that the controller must without undue 
delay reserve the data subject an opportunity to inspect the data referred to in section 
26 or, upon request, provide a hard copy of the data. The data must be given in an 
intelligible form.  

According to Article 12(1) of the GDPR, the controller must take appropriate 
measures to provide any information referred to Article 15 relating to processing to 
the data subject in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, us-
ing clear and plain language. The information must be provided in writing, or by other 
means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. When requested by the 
data subject, the information may be provided orally, provided that the identity of the 
data subject is proven by other means. Article 15(3) of the GDPR requires the con-
troller to provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing. 

According to Article 12 of the GDPR, the personal data may be provided to the data 
subject by electronic means where appropriate. Providing the data orally or by elec-
tronic means is not specifically mentioned in the corresponding provision of section 
28, section 2 of the Personal Data Act. The provision of Article 12(1) can be inter-
preted to impose broader obligations on the controller. It must thus be assessed 
whether applying the provision would be reasonable for the controller. As the General 
Data Protection Regulation increases the controller’s options with regard to the ap-
propriate format of delivering the personal data subject to certain conditions, this can-
not be considered unreasonable for the controller.  

Based on the above, the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman finds that Articles 12 
and 15 must be applied in the matter. 

Decision of the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman and its grounds 

Decision 

The controller has not implemented the applicant’s right of access to data provided 
for in Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.  

By virtue of point (c) of Article 58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the 
Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman orders the controller to comply with the data 
subject’s request concerning the right of access to data under points (a) to (h) of Arti-
cle 15(1) and to provide the information relating to the applicant as provided for in Ar-
ticle 12(1) and Article 15(3) of the General Data Protection Regulation. 

Since the applicant did not make the request in the manner provided for in section 28, 
subsection 1 of the Personal Data Act that was in force at the time, the Deputy Data 
Protection Ombudsman finds an order to provide the information to be a sufficient 
measure.  

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

Grounds  

 
6 (10) 
 

Based on the report and response received in the matter, the controller did not pro-
vide the applicant with the personal data requested by the applicant. 

The Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman draws attention to the following matters es-
pecially with regard to providing a recording of the telephone call.  

According to Article 12(1) of the GDPR, the controller must take appropriate 
measures to provide any information referred to Article 15 relating to processing to 
the data subject in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, us-
ing clear and plain language. The information must be provided in writing, or by other 
means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. When requested by the 
data subject, the information may be provided orally, provided that the identity of the 
data subject is proven by other means. According to Article 12(2) of the GDPR, the 
controller must facilitate the exercise of rights under Articles 15 to 22. Article 15(3) of 
the GDPR requires the controller to provide a copy of the personal data undergoing 
processing. 

The applicant has said that they agreed with the controller on the telephone that the 
applicant would be provided with the data requested by and relating to the applicant, 
along with the recording of the telephone call. The controller nevertheless did not de-
liver the recording of the call to the applicant, instead later informing the applicant of 
the opportunity to listen to the recording on the controller’s premises after making an 
official request for exercising the right of access. The controller later justified this 
practice to the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman by referring to Article 15(4) 
of the General Data Protection Regulation. 

The right of access to personal data and the format in which data must be provided 
was provided for at the national level in the Personal Data Act that was repealed on 1 
January 2019, section 28, subsection 2 of which states that the controller must re-
serve the data subject an opportunity to inspect the data referred to in section 26 or, 
upon request, provide a copy of the data. In the Data Protection Ombudsmans deci-
sion practice (10 May 2011, record no. 2680/41/2010 and 12 September 2013, record 
no. 2240/523/2013), the Data Protection Ombudsman has interpreted the data sub-
ject’s right to obtain recordings of customer calls by virtue of section 28 of the Per-
sonal Data Act. The Data Protection Ombudsman has found that the right provided 
for in section 26 of the Personal Data Act can be implemented either by affording the 
data subject the opportunity to listen to the recording (2680/41/2010) or by delivering 
the recording to the data subject in writing, such as in the form of a transcript, upon 
request (2240/523/2013). Controllers have nevertheless been required to provide the 
information in writing if so requested by the data subject (12 September 2013, record 
no. 2240/523/2013). Correspondingly, the General Data Protection Regulation pro-
vides for the format in which the information must be provided. According to Article 
12(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the information referred to in Article 
15 must be provided in writing, or by other means, including, where appropriate, by 
electronic means. Furthermore, with regard to the right of access to data, Article 
15(3) of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the controller’s obliga-
tion to provide a copy of the personal data undergoing processing to the data subject. 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

 
7 (10) 
 

The Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman thus finds that the controller has not imple-
mented the applicants right of access to data.  

2.  Judicial question 

The application of Articles 12 and 15 (right of access to data) of the General Data Pro-
tection Regulation to telephone call recordings   

The information provided by the controller in the matter indicates that the controller 
has not changed its practices for implementing the right of access to data (right of ac-
cess) with regard to telephone call recordings since the application of the General 
Data Protection Regulation began.   

Decision 

By virtue of point (d) of Article 58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the 
Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman orders the controller to bring its processing pro-
cedures into compliance with the provisions of Article 12(1) and Article 15(3) with re-
gard to implementing the right of access to data concerning telephone call record-
ings. 

The Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman leaves the appropriate measures to the dis-
cretion of the controller, within the limits provided in the grounds for the decision, but 
orders the controller to submit a report on the measures taken to the Office of the 
Data Protection Ombudsman by 30 March 2020.   

Grounds 

It is an undisputed fact that telephone call recordings contain personal data as re-
ferred to in Article 4(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation. In its decision is-
sued on 30 July 2010 (2094/1/09), the Supreme Administrative Court considered 
speech recorded on tape to constitute personal data and thus be subject to the right 
of access provided for in section 26 of the Personal Data Act. Correspondingly, the 
Court of First Instance of the European Communities found in matter T-166/05 on 11 
March 2009 that individuals can be identified by their voice (paragraph 39). The 
GDPR has not changed the definition of personal data from that provided in the Per-
sonal Data Act.  Data subjects thus still have the right of access to personal data with 
regard to telephone call recordings.  

In its report delivered on 7 October 2019, the controller states that it affords data sub-
jects the opportunity to listen to the recording on the controller’s premises or, alterna-
tively, by telephone.  In its report, the controller suggested that Article 15(4) of the 
GDPR prohibited it from providing the actual telephone call recording to the data sub-
ject.  

According to Article 12(1) of the GDPR, the controller must take appropriate 
measures to provide any information referred to Article 15 relating to processing to 
the data subject in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, us-
ing clear and plain language. The information must be provided in writing, or by other 
means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. When requested by the 
data subject, the information may be provided orally, provided that the identity of the 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

 
8 (10) 
 

data subject is proven. According to Article 12(2) of the GDPR, the controller must 
facilitate the exercise of rights under Articles 15 to 22. Furthermore, with regard to the 
right of access to data, Article 15(3) of the General Data Protection Regulation pro-
vides for the controller’s obligation to provide a copy of the personal data undergoing 
processing to the data subject.  

Providing the information provided for in Article 15(1) of the GDPR to a data subject 
can, in principle, be refused by virtue of Article 15(4), according to which the right to 
obtain a copy may not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others, which in-
clude trade secrets and intellectual property and in particular the copyright protecting 
software according to paragraph 63 of the recitals of the GDPR. However, Article 
15(4) does not restrict the controller from implementing the data subject’s right of ac-
cess in a situation such as the one in the matter at hand.  

In a prior decision (12 September 2013, record no. 2240/523/2013), the Data Protec-
tion Ombudsman has found that, in practice, telephone call recordings always contain 
personal data relating to another individual, and this cannot be considered to consti-
tute an obstacle to implementing the right of access. According to the decision, the 
Personal Data Act thus does not prevent disclosing the personal data of the control-
ler’s representative to a data subject exercising their right of access. The controller 
stated that it records sales and customer service telephone calls in order to safe-
guard the rights of the parties and for training purposes. The calls are thus recorded 
for purposes defined by the controller, and the salesperson’s personal data consti-
tutes a part of the recording. 

In addition to Article 15(4) of the GDPR, a data subject’s right of access to data can 
be restricted on grounds provided for in section 34 of the Data Protection Act. Ac-
cording to the above-mentioned section, a data subject does not have the right of ac-
cess to data if, for example providing access to the data could seriously endanger the 
health or treatment of the data subject or the rights of some other person (section 34, 
subsection 1, paragraph 2). The right of the data subject cannot be restricted by vir-
tue of the above-mentioned legal provision in a case such as this one. 

The Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman finds that the way of implementing the data 
subject’s right provided for in Article 15 of the GDPR with respect to providing access 
to the telephone call recording does not conform to the requirements of the GDPR, as 
Article 15(3) of the GDPR requires the controller to provide a copy of the personal 
data to the data subject. In this regard, the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman 
draws particular attention to the fact that limitations of the right of access to data pro-
vided for in Article 8(2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union 
(2012/C 326/02) is to be interpreted narrowly. 

Based on the above, the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman finds that the control-
ler’s current practice for implementing the right provided for in Article 15 with regard 
to telephone call recordings does not conform to the requirements of the GDPR. 

As described above, the Personal Data Act would have obligated the controller to 
provide the information requested by the data subject, for example as a transcript. 
Since the controller can provide the information in electronic form by virtue of the 
General Data Protection Regulation currently in force, the controller can also deliver a 
copy of the data in another format of its choice, such as a telephone recording. 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

3.  Judicial question 

 
9 (10) 
 

Providing information on recording telephone calls 

Due to the information that came to light during the processing of the matter, the Dep-
uty Data Protection Ombudsman must assess whether the controller’s practices for 
providing information on the recording of telephone calls are compliant with point (a) 
of Article 5(1), Article 12(1) and Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation. 

Decision of the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman and its grounds 

Decision 

The controller’s current practices for providing information are not sufficiently trans-
parent according to point (a) of Article 5(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, 
nor are they thus compliant with the requirements of Article 12(1) and Article 13 of the 
GDPR. 

Order 

By virtue of point (d) of Article 58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the 
Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman orders the controller to bring its processing pro-
cedures into compliance with the provisions of point (a) of Article 5(1), Article 12(1) 
and Article 13 with regard to informing data subjects of the recording of telephone 
calls. 

The Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman leaves appropriate measures to the discre-
tion of the controller, but orders the controller to submit a report on the measures taken 
to the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman by 30 March 2020.  

Reprimands 

The Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman additionally issues a reprimand under point 
(b) of Article 58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation to the controller regarding 
deficiencies in informing data subjects of the recording of telephone calls.  

Grounds 

According to Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller must 
provide the data subject with the information referred to in Article 13 at the time the 
personal data is obtained. Among other things, point (c) of Article 13(1) requires the 
data subject to be informed of the purposes of the processing of the personal data as 
well as the legal basis for the processing.  

According to point (a) of Article 5(1) of the GDPR, the controller must process the 
personal data lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the data sub-
ject. In paragraph 39 of the recitals to the GDPR, it is stated that it should be trans-
parent to natural persons how personal data concerning them is collected and used. 

Article 12(1) of the GDPR provides for the controller’s obligation to take the appropri-
ate measures to provide any information referred to in Article 13 to the data subject 
in, e.g. a transparent and intelligible form.  

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

 
 

 

 

Decision 
 
 
 

 
10 (10) 
 

In its report delivered on 20 August 2018, the controller stated that it records a sepa-
rate audio receipt of sales telephone calls if the consumer makes an electricity supply 
agreement. According to the controller, the applicant had not been informed of the 
start of recording because the applicant had not made an electricity supply agree-
ment with the controller.  

On the basis of the information received on the matter, the Deputy Data Protection 
Ombudsman finds that the controller did not inform the applicant of recording the tele-
phone call. In the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman’s overall assessment of the 
matter, the Deputy Ombudsman draws attention to the fact that the controller has 
made changes to the information provided on its website on the recording of tele-
phone calls after receiving the request for information from the Office of the Data Pro-
tection Ombudsman.  

In its supplementary report dated 7 October 2019, the controller provided further clari-
fications on its current practices and said that it does not record sales telephone calls 
if the call does not lead to an agreement. The recording of such calls is stopped and 
the recorded conversation is automatically erased. The controller thus only informs 
the data subject of recording the sales telephone call if it leads to an agreement. The 
Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman points out that recording a telephone call consti-
tutes processing of personal data as referred to in the GDPR (as well as in the re-
pealed Personal Data Act). The controller is thus required to inform the data subject 
of the collection of personal data.  

Since the controller does not inform the data subject at the start of recording the tele-
phone call, its practices are not compliant with the requirements of point (a) of Article 
5(1), Article 12(1) and Article 13 of the GDPR. The Deputy Data Protection Ombuds-
man thus finds that the controller’s current practices for providing information are not 
sufficiently transparent according to point (a) of Article 5(1) of the General Data Pro-
tection Regulation, nor are they thus compliant with the requirements of Article 12(1) 
and Article 13 of the GDPR. Taking into consideration that the controller has already 
taken certain measures in order to bring its operations into compliance with the 
GDPR, the Deputy Data Protection Ombudsman considers a reprimand to be a suffi-
cient sanction in this matter in addition to the order regarding the processing of per-
sonal data. 

Applicable legal provisions 

EU General Data Protection Regulation (2016/679), point (a) of Article 5(1), Article 
12(1), (2) and (6), Article 13, points (a) to (h) of Article 15(1), Article 15(3) and (4), 
points (c) and (d) of Article 58(2) 

Data Protection Act (1050/2018), section 34, subsection 1, paragraph 2; section 38, 
subsection 3 

Personal Data Act (523/1999), sections 6 and 9; section 10, subsection 1, paragraph 
3; section 24, subsection 1; section 26, subsection 1; section 28 

Administrative Procedure Act (434/2003), section 34, subsection 2, paragraph 5 

Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (2012/C 326/02), Article 8(2) 

Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 
P.O. Box 800, 00521 Helsinki, Finland – tel. +358 29 566 6700 (exchange) – tietosuoja@om.fi – 
www.tietosuoja.fi 

