1/7

Notice No. 40/2018 of May 23, 2018

Subject: Draft Royal Decree concerning the transfer of the database referred to in Article 9 of the law of December 20, 2001 regarding the compensation of members of the Jewish Community of Belgium for the property they were dispossessed of or abandoned during the war 1940-1945 (CO-A-2018-030)

The Commission for the Protection of Privacy (hereinafter "the Commission");

Considering the law of December 8, 1992 regarding the protection of privacy in relation to the processing of personal data (hereinafter LVP), particularly Article 29;

Considering the request for an opinion from the Prime Minister, Mr. Charles Michel, received on April 4, 2018;

Considering the additional information received on April 24 and 25, 2018;

Considering the report of Mr. Willem Debeuckelaere;

Issues, on May 23, 2018, the following opinion:

Opinion 40/2018 - 2/7

The Commission draws attention to the fact that a new European regulation regarding the protection of personal data has recently been enacted: the Regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and the Police and Justice Directive. These texts were published in the Official Journal of the European Union on May 4, 2016[1].

The Regulation, commonly referred to as the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation), came into effect twenty days after its publication, that is, on May 24, 2016, and will automatically apply two years later, on May 25, 2018. The Police and Justice Directive must be transposed into national legislation no later than May 6, 2018.

For the Regulation, this means that from May 24, 2016, and during the two-year implementation period, Member States have, on the one hand, a positive obligation to take all necessary implementing measures, and on the other hand, a negative obligation, known as the "duty of abstention." This latter obligation implies the prohibition of enacting national legislation that would seriously undermine the intended outcome of the Regulation. Similar principles also apply to the Directive.

It is therefore recommended to possibly anticipate these texts from now on. And it is primarily the responsibility of the applicant(s) for the opinion to take this into account in their proposals or drafts. In this opinion, the Commission has already ensured, as far as possible and subject to any subsequent additional viewpoints, compliance with the aforementioned negative obligation.

[1] Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation)  
Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses, and for the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA of the Council  
http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/FR/TXT/?uri=OJ%3AL%3A2016%3A119%3ATOC  
http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/NL/TXT/?uri=OJ:L:2016:119:TOC
Notice 40/2018 - 3/7  
I.  
OBJECT AND CONTEXT OF THE REQUEST FOR OPINION  

1. A draft Royal Decree (hereinafter referred to as "the draft") concerning the transfer of the database referred to in Article 9 of the law of December 20, 2001, on the compensation of members of the Jewish Community of Belgium for the property from which they were dispossessed or that they abandoned during the war 1940-1945 is submitted for the opinion of the Commission.  

2. Article 9 of the aforementioned law of December 20, 2001, empowers the King to determine, after consulting the Commission, the purpose of the database concerning individuals who were victims of anti-Jewish measures taken by the German authorities at the end of the mandate of the Commission for the compensation of members of the Jewish Community established with the services of the Prime Minister (hereinafter referred to as the Compensation Commission).  

II. ON THE MERITS  

3. The database to which this draft pertains was created by the Study Commission on the fate of the property of members of the Jewish Community of Belgium dispossessed or abandoned during the war 1940-1945 (referred to as the "Buysse Commission"), established with the services of the Prime Minister by the law of January 15, 1999. By Royal Decree of October 29, 2001, implementing Article 4 of this law of January 15, 1999, it was transferred to the Compensation Commission for the members of this Community and was integrated into the Compensation Commission's own database.  

4. According to the information provided to the Commission in 1998 during the request for opinion on the creation of this database, it was established to enable the Buysse Commission and the Compensation Commission to carry out their missions. It was intended to allow for the cross-referencing of information found in different archival funds and the reconstruction of individual case histories.  

5. According to information obtained by the Secretariat from the delegated official, the database, in its current state, allows for consultation by compensation request and by dispossessed individual and also enables links to be made between the different data. It includes the following information:  
                                                  
1 Law of January 15, 1999, concerning the Study Commission on the fate of the property of members of the Jewish Community of Belgium dispossessed or abandoned during the war 1940-1945.  
2 Established under the law of December 20, 2001, on the compensation of members of the Jewish Community of Belgium for the property from which they were dispossessed or that they abandoned during the war 1940-1945.  
3 See opinion 22/98 of August 26, 1998, on the creation of a database by the Study Commission on the fate of the property of members of the Jewish Community of Belgium dispossessed or abandoned during the war 1940-1945.
Notice 40/2018 - 4/7  
•  
biographical and genealogical information concerning 70,000 deported individuals from Belgium or France or victims of anti-Semitic measures taken in Belgium. Links were established between this data and information related to the confiscated assets for each case where a person could be associated with specific assets based on the records of German looting, post-war archives of the Belgian administration – the Office of the Sequestration – and private archives of insurance companies and banks. Among these individuals, some are still alive today (hidden children, etc.);  
•  
Data from 954 holders of an insurance policy during the Second World War;  
•  
Recent biographical and genealogical data of 5,620 compensation claimants and, in the event of their death, their heirs (name, first names, address, account number, phone number, year of birth, language,…)  

6. Contrary to the recommendations issued by the Commission in its aforementioned opinion No. 22/98 as well as in opinion No. 29/2001 of August 24, 2001, regarding the transfer of the database to the services of the Chancellery pending the establishment of the Compensation Commission, the categories of third parties authorized to access the data after the completion of the mission of the aforementioned Commissions have not been determined by the legislator. Instead, the legislator has delegated to the King the responsibility of determining the destination of this database at the end of the mandate of the Compensation Commission.  

7. In view of the societal and historical interest of the information contained in the database, the Commission has no objection to its transfer to the General Archives of the Kingdom, provided that specific guarantees for the individuals concerned are established and that Article 89.1 of the GDPR is respected (principle of minimization) when making the information it contains available to third parties based on the reasons they will invoke in their access requests. Recital 158 of the GDPR indeed states that "Member States should also be allowed to provide for further processing of personal data for archiving purposes, for example, in order to provide accurate information regarding political behavior under the regimes of former totalitarian states, genocides, crimes against humanity, including the Holocaust, or war crimes."  

4 Namely, the individuals who were dispossessed or their heirs up to the third degree.  
5 This principle requires processing only the data necessary for the research and, if possible, preferably in an anonymized form. If this is not possible, the processing of data in a pseudonymized form will always be preferred, if possible, to processing the data in their raw form. Whenever the research purposes can be achieved through further processing that does not allow for the identification of the individuals concerned, it is appropriate to proceed in this manner.
Notice 40/2018 - 5/7  
8. Before any transfer to the General Archives of the Kingdom, the information contained in the database must first undergo a preliminary sorting with the assistance of the General Archivist of the Kingdom, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 11 to 15 of the Royal Decree of April 18, 2010, implementing Articles 5 and 6 of the law on archives of June 24, 1955, in order to transfer only the information that presents scientific, historical, and societal interest. The draft royal decree will usefully specify the purpose of the transfer in its provisions.  

9. Article 8 of the aforementioned law of December 20, 2001, provides that the investigations carried out by the Compensation Commission regarding the sincerity of compensation requests and their results are covered by professional secrecy and must be exclusively intended for the examination procedure of compensation requests. Consequently, the results of these investigations should be pseudonymized before their transfer to the archives or at the very least before their availability to third parties by the services of the General Archives of the Kingdom. This will also be usefully specified in the draft royal decree.  

10. Due to the fact that they reveal the racial or ethnic origin of the individuals included, the data processed in the database may be classified as sensitive within the meaning of Article 9 of the GDPR. To lift the prohibition on processing this data as provided in Article 9.1 of the GDPR, it is necessary to invoke one of the exceptions referred to in Article 9.2 of the GDPR.  

11. In this case, the transfer to the Archives of the Kingdom of information from the database that presents historical and societal interest and the processing that will be carried out therein can be based on Article 9.2.j6 of the GDPR, provided that its conditions are respected; this implies that the project submitted for opinion must include appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and interests of the living individuals concerned.  

12. To this end, in addition to the principle of data minimization provided in Article 89.1 of the GDPR that the services of the Archives of the Kingdom must respect when making the data available, it is necessary to determine for what purposes the personal data from the database may be used at the Archives of the Kingdom (historical, genealogical, or scientific research) and to limit access to members of the scientific community responsible for such research (in addition to, of course, access by the individuals concerned to their own data or that of their family members).  

6 The prohibition on processing personal data revealing ethnic or racial origin does not apply if "the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research purposes, or for statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1 (of the GDPR), based on Union law or the law of a Member State that must be proportionate to the objective pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection, and provide for appropriate and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and interests of the data subject."  
7 The GDPR does not apply to the processing of data concerning deceased persons.
Notice 40/2018 - 6/7

13. To meet the requirements of Article 9.2.j of the GDPR, the legislator could also draw inspiration from the royal decree of July 16, 1992, concerning the communication of information contained in population registers, which provides that for documents older than 120 years, this information may be communicated freely for historical, scientific, or genealogical research purposes, and that for documents less than 120 years old, their communication in raw form (non-anonymized) can only be done for these purposes with the consent of the living individuals concerned. The royal decree of February 13, 2001, implementing the privacy law, provides for the prior consent of the individuals concerned for the reuse of their non-coded data for historical, statistical, or scientific purposes unless the data in question has been made publicly available by the individual concerned or if such data is closely related to the public character of the individual concerned or the facts in which they are involved, or when obtaining prior consent proves impossible or requires disproportionate efforts (Articles 19 and 20 of the Royal Decree 13/02/2001).

14. Similarly, as provided by the international agreement on the International Research Service of December 9, 2011, regarding the opening of war archives for research, the project could also specify that the General Archives of the Kingdom will take all reasonable measures to prevent the disclosure of information from the database that could harm the interests of the individual(s) concerned by anti-Jewish measures or anti-Semitic acts during World War II or their relatives. The Commission recommends that the authors of anti-Jewish measures or anti-Semitic acts also be covered by such a provision.

15. Finally, pursuant to Article 13.3 of the GDPR, living individuals from whom personal data has been directly collected must be informed in advance, by the services of the Prime Minister's Chancellery, of the transfer of their data under the conditions set out in Articles 13.1 and 13.2 of the GDPR.

16. For living individuals about whom the Commissions have collected data from third parties, the exemption from prior information for further processing provided for in Article 14.5.b of the GDPR could be invoked under the cumulative conditions that the services of the Chancellery can justify that such information requires disproportionate efforts on their part and that they take appropriate measures to protect the rights and freedoms as well as the legitimate interests of these individuals, including making the information publicly available (on websites, announcements in newspapers, etc.). The information of representative organizations of the Jewish community in Belgium could also be carried out.

FOR THESE REASONS,

the Commission issues a favorable opinion on the draft Royal Decree, subject to the consideration of the following remarks:

1. Precision in the draft Royal Decree regarding the purpose of the data transfer in accordance with recitals 8 and 9, the purposes for which personal data may be accessed from the services of the General Archives of the Kingdom, and the ratione personae limitation of the recipients (recitals 8, 9, and 12);

2. Adoption in the draft Royal Decree of appropriate and specific measures for the safeguarding of the fundamental rights and interests of living individuals concerned by anti-Jewish measures and the authors of anti-Semitic acts (recitals 12 to 14);

3. Information of the individuals concerned (recitals 15 and 16);

4. Respect for the principle of minimization referred to in Article 89.1 of the GDPR when making data available by the General Archives of the Kingdom to third parties (recital 7).

The Acting Administrator,
The President,

(signed) An Machtens  
(signed) Willem Debeuckelaere