

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing during the provision of so-called Smart city services (Kolín city)



On the basis of its inspection plan, the Office carried out an inspection in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the subject of which was the fulfillment of obligations in the processing of personal data in connection with the provision of so-called smart city services, specifically the Smart city Kolín project.



The inspection revealed that the Smart city Kolín project consists of several sub-services, namely the so-called Smart Waste Management, Kolín in Mobile, Smart Key Ring, Parking and SMS Info Channel. Of these services, however, personal data is only processed in the case of the service Kolín v mobil, Parking and SMS Infokanál.



In all cases, the controlled person entrusted the development and further operation of the service (or the mobile application intended for this) to the processor with whom it concluded the relevant contract. The position of the controlled person as a personal data controller is determined by the fact that it was the controlled person who decided that a certain application would be established and what its functions would be. At the same time, it also decided that the processing of personal data associated with it will be carried out and thus determined the purpose of this processing and its means. The fact that all other parameters of the service in question are left to the processor by the controlled person does not change the aforementioned conclusion.



The processing of personal data itself is in all cases based primarily on the basis of a legal title according to Article 6 paragraph 1 letter b) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (conclusion and performance of the contract), possibly based on the consent of the data subject (voluntary additional data).

The Office did not detect a violation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in connection with the processing of personal data for the purposes of this service.


The inspection was conducted by the inspector JUDr. Jiřina Rippelová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of personal data processing during the provision of so-called Smart city services (city Cologne) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



