1/13

 Procedure No.: PS/00027/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 05/14/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against the Independent Union of Banking Employees of Liberbank, with
NIF G10467637 (hereinafter, SIBANK). The grounds on which the claim is based are:
the complainant, chairman of the Liberbank branch works council
***COMMUNITY.1 and Secretary of Organization and Administration FESMC-UGT
***COMUNIDAD.1, affirms that the meeting held on 10/01/2018 between the committee of
Liberbank company and the General Director of Labor of the Government of
***COMUNIDAD.1 was recorded fraudulently by a member of SIBANK, since
that those attending it were unaware that it was taking place.
Subsequently, a video was disseminated through WhatsApp to the workers that
includes an excerpt from the conversation between the UGT representative and the
General Director of Labor. He states that they have filed a complaint with the Police.
National and Court, although it does not provide evidence or numbers of the report and file.

Additional information requested from the claimant, dated 05/15/2019
receives in this Agency written correction sent by the claimant providing
the following documents on USB memory:

• Writing indicating various aspects of what happened in the union elections
and differences between unions and requesting this Agency to formulate a
formal complaint against the SIBANK union.
• Screen print of the broadcast by WhatsApp of the extract of the meeting.
• Recording to which the claimant alludes in his claim.
• Video of union representative (SIBANK), used in campaign
election, justifying the recording and its dissemination.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant of which this
Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts in
question.

 The extreme indicated in the claim of the recording and diffusion is verified
of a part of the meeting held by the works council with the
General Director of Labor of the Government of ***COMUNIDAD.1.

 The representative of the union claimed, in the video used in the campaign

electoral, manifests among others, the following aspects:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

-

It justifies the legality of the recording by pointing out that the person recording was participating
in said recording.

- That he does not see it as punishable to spread positions or initiatives in trade union matters,

they have nothing to do with the right to personal and family privacy.

- And he ends by pointing out that he has respected the principle of
proportionality and that they have only understood that they should broadcast the recording
when verifying that the head of a union intended to influence
in the competent administrative bodies.

 Examined the recording provided by the claimant (excerpt from the meeting
broadcast by WhatsApp) only the UGT representative and the
General Director of Labor of the Government of ***COMUNIDAD.1. It is true that
The complete recording is not available, but an extract of it in which
the voice of any other meeting is not heard, but understanding "the recording"
denounced as the total of the meeting and given the controversy of what was
hears in it, it is presumable that the representative of the union claimed
participate at some point in it.

 Regarding the judicial process referred to in the claim, the written document
received on 05/15/2019 sent by the claimant, it follows that the process
court is due to a complaint filed by another union, against the
union claimed, for insults, facts other than those indicated in this
claim.

THIRD: On 02/28/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person claimed for the alleged
infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.
FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations on 06/12/2020 stating, in summary: that the meeting to which he
reference the start-up agreement or was produced by the works council but by a
part of him and the general secretary of UGT; That no consent is required for
record the audio conversation by the assistant to it; that only partially
cites the applicable regulations since in article 6 and no reference is made to the
legitimate interest and that we would be facing a form of legitimation of the treatment of the
data as an alternative to consent; that it would not be a legitimate interest of the
responsible but also of third parties in this case of the workers and that
file the procedure.

FIFTH: On 08/10/2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to open
a period of practical tests, agreeing on the following:

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection services that are part of the file.
- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement of
beginning PS/00027/2020 presented by the claimed party and the documentation that
they accompany.
- Request the claimant a copy of all the documentation that is in his possession.
power relative to the sanctioning procedure that for any reason does not
had been provided at the time of the complaint or, if deemed appropriate,
any other manifestation in relation to the facts denounced; copy of
the complaint before the Police and Court in relation to the facts claimed;
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

3/13

information on the participants in the meeting held with the Director
Labor General of the Government of *** COMMUNITY.1.

SIXTH: On 01/05/2021, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense of
that the claimant be filed for violation of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, typified
in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

After the period established for this purpose, the respondent has not submitted

brief of allegations at the time of issuing this resolution.
SEVENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure, they have been
accredited the following

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 05/14/2019 it has entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claim filed by the claimant against SIBANK, indicating
that in the meeting held on 10/01/2018 between members of the works council
of Liberbank and the General Director of Labor of the Government of ***COMMUNIDAD.1 was
fraudulently recorded by a member of SIBANK and subsequently
has broadcast a video to workers via WhatsApp that includes an excerpt
of the conversation between the UGT representative and the General Director of
Worked.
SECOND. A copy of the claimant's DNI number ***NIF.1 has been provided.
THIRD. The claim in writing dated 06/12/2020 that “On 11/19/2018 the union
SIBANK, as part of the electoral campaign that is taking place in that
moment, distributes among its affiliates a composition in the form of a video that is
It sends by email and to whatsapp lists of affiliates and supporters. In
This document contains (transcript attached):
a) Electoral message and vote request.
b) Recording in audio format of a passage of the conversation that takes place in
 on the 25th of
the General Directorate of Labor of the Government of
 
September 2018, and attended by union delegates from the unions
APECASYC, CSIF, STC, SIBANK and UGT, members of the Works Council of
LIBERBANK branches in
 
 In addition to the Secretary General of
UGT in Liberbank that does not meet the status of member of the Works Council
c) Verbatim transcript of the video distributed by SIBANK”.

 ***COMMUNITY.1
 

 ***COMMUNITY.1
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

FOURTH. It consists provided by both the claimant and the claimed, recording
of the electoral video in which an audio extract of the conversation held
during the meeting, indicating the following:

“2018 Trade Union Elections

Do you really think that all trade unionists are the same?
Listen to the Secretary General of UGT trying to convince the Director General
of Labor of the Government of ***COMUNIDAD.1 that instead of sanctioning
LIBERBANK should be sanctioned for working outside of working hours:
- Secretary General of UGT, B.B.B.:
“And another thing…in the complaints, that is being considered because there is criteria for one side and
for another Until now the sanctions have always gone to the company. Is there any
way that in the end the sanction of catching you has repercussions on the worker?”
- General Director of Labor
“No, the sanction is to the company”.
- Secretary General of UGT, B.B.B.:
"Always?"
- General Director of Labor
"Always. What happens to the worker at a certain moment is that as it is
obligation of the company, the worker is not imputed. For example, in matters of
unemployment benefits, a person, a worker who is on a file
of employment regulation and is working in another company during the hours of the file,
if you can be sanctioned by withdrawing your unemployment benefit, not from here
but from the SEPE but when it is a worker who is in the company and is the
company that is changing your schedule, you are not going to sanction the worker because
it would be to take away the unemployment benefit, it would be extinction”
- Another worker present in the conversation (SIBANK union delegate and author of
the recording):
“But sanctioning the worker, who is the party that is most pressured…”
- General Director of Labor:
“Unless you are looking for a specific worker, then it is very different
You know what I mean? Or in general to all workers?
- Secretary General of UGT, B.B.B.:
“No, let's see is that the other day it was commented because here, the issue is that in terms of
someone affects him personally, the rest will stop working”.
- General Director of Labor:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

"That is not like that"

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

II

The facts denounced are specified in the audio recording and its dissemination to
through WhatsApp by a member of the claimed, without knowledge or authorization
of the attendees, from an extract of the conversation held between the representative
of the UGT union and the General Director of Labor of ***COMUNIDAD.1 reaching
be known by third parties, all of them employees of the entity.

The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them that of legality, loyalty and
transparency, noted:

"1. The personal data will be:
a)

processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party
("lawfulness, fairness and transparency")
(…)

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality").
(…)”

In turn, in article 6, Legality of the treatment, of the RGPD establishes that:
"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

(…)”

Article 4 of the GDPR, Definitions, in section 11, states that:
“11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through
a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that
concern him”.

Also article 6, Treatment based on the consent of the affected party,
of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), indicates
that:

"1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, consent of the affected party is understood to be any manifestation of will
free, specific, informed and unequivocal by which he accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

2. When the data processing is intended to be based on consent
of the affected party for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

III

In the present case, the claim that motivates the opening of the procedure
deals with the audio recording and dissemination of an extract of the conversation
maintained between the UGT representative and the General Director of Labor in the
meeting of 10/01/2018 with members of the Liberbank works council, recorded
by a member of SIBANK and that the attendees were unaware that
was carrying out and which has subsequently been disseminated through the social network
WhatsApp during the union election campaign.

The art. 4 section 1) of the GDPR defines “personal data” with great
 1) "personal data": any information about a natural person
amplitude:
identified or identifiable ("the interested party"); shall be considered an identifiable natural person
any person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in
by an identifier, such as a name, phone number,
identification, location data, an online identifier, or one or more elements
own physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or
social of said person;

For its part, article 4 of the RGPD defines in its section 2) the treatment of
data as “any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, communication by
transmission, dissemination or any other form of authorization of access, collation or
destruction".
interconnection,

limitation,

suppression

either

 

 

 

 

In response to the case at hand, the recording of a private meeting
necessarily entails capturing and recording the voice of the members of the
same. Thus, and as the Agency has repeatedly considered
Spanish Data Protection, the voice of a person, is a personal data, since
allows you to identify a specific person. Therefore, recording the sound of voice
in an electronic or non-electronic medium constitutes a data storage
personal and, therefore, a treatment of the same.

The General Data Protection Regulation (RGPD) requires in the treatment
of data compliance with a series of basic principles, and non-compliance with
any of them inexcusably supposes an infraction of the norm.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

In accordance with the legality of the treatment, to treat any data of a
personal it is necessary that there is a legal basis that legitimizes it and this can be in
some cases, the consent, which is necessary for the execution of a contract,
a legal obligation, to protect vital interests, for a mission carried out in the interest
public or for the satisfaction of legitimate interests, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data.

First of all, it should be noted that in accordance with the provisions
by the Supreme Court in numerous judgments, among others the recent one of
05/31/2019, the recording of a conversation between several people is considered
and carried out by one of them does not violate the right to privacy or the secrecy of the
communications, nor does it violate said rights the recordings of
telephone conversations held with third parties, since the secrecy of
communications refers essentially to the protection of citizens against
to the State.

However, a different matter is that the recording made of a meeting
privately by whoever attends it can subsequently make it known to third parties,
broadcast or publish it without the consent or authorization of those attending the
itself and if the treatment carried out can be considered legitimate.

 
It is evident that in the claimed case the processing of personal data
personal has been made without the consent of the claimant. Thus, there would be no basis
legal that legitimized the treatment of the personal data of the claimant for the
purpose pursued based on consent, which in the present case is not given
since the claimant opposes it.

However, in his allegations to the initial agreement, the respondent considers
that the basis that legitimizes the processing of the claimant's data is found in the
legitimate interest (5.1.f) of the RGPD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

Regarding legitimate interest as a legal basis for data processing

of third parties, Recital 47 of the RGPD says:

<<The legitimate interest of a data controller, including that of a
responsible to which personal data may be communicated, or of a third party, may
constitute a legal basis for the treatment, provided that the
interests or the rights and freedoms of the interested party, taking into account the
reasonable expectations of data subjects based on their relationship with the
responsible. Such legitimate interest could occur, for example, when there is a relationship
relevant and appropriate relationship between the data subject and the controller, such as in situations where
which the interested party is a client or is at the service of the person in charge. In any case,
the existence of a legitimate interest would require careful assessment, even if
a data subject can reasonably foresee, at the time and in the context of the
collection of personal data, which may be processed for this purpose. In
particular, the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject could
prevail over the interests of the data controller when proceeding to the
processing of personal data in circumstances in which the interested party does not
reasonably expect further treatment to take place. Since it corresponds
the legislator to establish by law the legal basis for the processing of personal data
by public authorities, this legal basis should not apply to
treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions. The
processing of personal data strictly necessary for the prevention
of fraud also constitutes a legitimate interest of the data controller.
that it is Processing of personal data for direct marketing purposes
can be considered carried out for legitimate interest.>> (The underlining is from the AEPD)

Now, to determine if the treatment made by the respondent of the data of the
claimant through the aforementioned social network to members and sympathizers of the union is
or not adjusted to law requires weighing the interests at stake to conclude whether it should
prevail or not over the right to freedom of association the right of the claimant to his
privacy.

Therefore, in the examined case, the collision that can occur
between the right to freedom of association and the right to data protection in the
to the extent that personal data is used under the protection of that right
of the claimant and, ultimately, which of the two fundamental rights must deserve
increased protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

With regard to the right to freedom of association, it should be noted that
Indeed, it cannot be ignored that the union sections and the organs of
representation of the workers of a company or of a public administration,
have recognized a series of competencies for the exercise of their functions
representative unions and that are protected by the right to freedom
trade union recognized in article 28.1 of the Constitution, developed through the
Organic Law 11/1985.

In this sense, trade union activity includes the right to promote elections
and present candidates for the election of works councils and delegates of
personnel, which implies the realization of an electoral campaign, the distribution of
electoral propaganda directed at company employees and voters in the
electoral process, etc.

The A.N. In a judgment of 01/28/2013, it states that: “Regarding the right to
freedom of association, developed through Organic Law 11/1985, of August 2,
Freedom of Association, the Constitutional Court has reiterated, that despite the fact that the tenor
literal of art. 28.1 CE, could lead to consider the restriction of the content of the
freedom of association to an exclusively organizational or associative aspect, however
This precept also integrates the functional aspect of law, that is, the
right of trade unions to exercise those activities aimed at the defense,
protection and promotion of the interests of workers, in short, to deploy the
means of action necessary for them to fulfill the functions that they
constitutionally correspond to them (for all, SSTC 105/1992, of July 1;
145/1999, of July 22; 308/2000, of December 18, and 213/2002, of December 11,
november
).
(…)

Now, as the TC has pointed out, see STC 70/2003, of March 12 "
no right, not even fundamental rights, is absolute or unlimited. Nail
sometimes the very constitutional precept that enshrines it already explicitly establishes
limits; on other occasions, these derive from the need to preserve other
rights or assets constitutionally worthy of protection (TC SS 11/1981, of April 8
, 2/1982, of January 29, 91/1993, of March 15, 110/1994, of April 11,
52/1995, of February 23, 37/1998, of February 17".

 

Freedom of association, like the right to data protection, does not
constitute, evidently, an exception to this rule (SSTC 81/1983, of 10 of
October, 94/1995, of June 19, 127/1995, of July 25), so it proceeds
weigh the opposing interests and in attention to the concurrent circumstances,
determine
protection".

  deserves

  elderly

interest

that

 

 

 

It should be noted that the representatives of the union claimed, through
WhatsApp and as part of the electoral campaign that was taking place in that
moment, they distributed among their affiliates and sympathizers an extract of the
conversation held at a meeting by some members of the works council
and the claimant with the General Director of Labor of ***COMUNIDAD.1 facilitating
information that could be relevant for the purposes of union activity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

The moment in which the examined facts take place, electoral period
trade union, justifies exchanging information between members and sympathizers of
the different unions, for example, about how they have carried out the
activities that have been entrusted to them by the different union leaders;
to be informed of whether in the development of such activity the interests of the
collective etc

As the TC has repeatedly pointed out, "... despite the fact that the literal tenor of the
art. 28.1 CE, could lead to consider restricting the content of freedom
trade union to an exclusively organizational or associative aspect, however in this
precept also integrates the functional aspect of the law, that is, the right of
trade unions to exercise those activities aimed at the defense, protection and
promotion of the interests of the workers, in short, to deploy the means of
necessary action so that they can fulfill the functions that constitutionally
correspond”.

The exercise of this right includes the trade union activity of maintaining
informed to the members of the union in the corresponding work center of
all issues that directly or indirectly affect or that may have
impact on labor relations, since this transmission of news of interest
union, that flow of information between the union and its affiliates, between the delegates
trade unions and workers is the foundation of participation, allows the exercise
of trade union action, promotes the development of democracy and pluralism
trade union and, in short, constitutes an essential element of the fundamental right to
syndical freedom.

It is the TC itself that points out “the flow of information between the union and the
workers is the foundation of participation, allows the full exercise of a
trade union action and promotes the development of trade union democracy and pluralism
(SSTC 94/1995, of June 19, FJ 4; and 168/1996, of November 25, FJ 6).

 
In the present case, as evidenced by the proven facts, the support where
process the claimant's personal data without their consent is the recording
carried out by one of the attendees at the meeting with the General Director of Labor of
the CCAA of *** COMMUNITY.1 which was subsequently disseminated on the social network to
members and sympathizers of the union during the period of union elections,
extracting the content of what was stated by the UGT representative and the Director
General.

One of the elements to consider is that the scope of dissemination of the excerpt from the
conversation has been limited to the scope of the company, the workplace, which is the
sphere that authorizes article 8 of the Law on Freedom of Association to have the right to
information on issues that affect workers arising from the activity
union.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

Secondly, the time in which it takes place, union elections where the
different unions raise proposals and make known their different projects
obtaining the support of its affiliates and workers and, as in the particular case, giving
information on the opinion of one of the workers' representatives on
an issue (ERTES), which could be relevant in the workplace in which it is
produces and in which the workers themselves could be affected.

On the other hand, as the AEPD itself considers "in the electoral period,
prevail the right to trade union activity enshrined in article 2.1 of the Law
Organization of Trade Union Freedom on the fundamental right to data protection.
Consequently, workers during the union election process cannot
object to the processing of your personal data, provided that the use made by the
Union is suitable for the purposes of the electoral process itself” (Res. 01871/2014,
Proc.00624/2014).

In consideration of the foregoing, it is concluded that the defendant is not
responsible for an infringement of article 5.1.a), in relation to article 6.1.a) of the
GDPR.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: FILE with the INDEPENDENT UNION OF EMPLOYEES OF
BANCA-LIBERBANK, with NIF G10467637, for the infringement of article 6.1.a) of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the INDEPENDENT UNION OF
EMPLOYEES OF BANKING-LIBERBANK, with NIF G10467637.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

  Electronic Registration of

through the

13/13

[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

