  Tatari 39, Tallinn 10134 / 627 4135 / info@aki.ee / www.aki.ee / Registration code 70004235 FOR USE WITHIN THE INSTITUTION Information holder: Data Protection Inspectorate Note made: 03.12.2020 Access restriction valid until: 03.12.2095 Basis: AvTS § 35 lg 1 p 12, AvTS § 35 paragraph 1 p. 2 PRESCRIPTION-WARNING in personal data protection case no. 2.1.-1/22/1396 Prescription author Data Protection Inspectorate lawyer Mari-Liis Uprus Date and place of the prescription 05.10.2022, Tallinn Recipient of the prescription personal data processor XXX address: XXX e-mail address: XXX RESOLUTION Article 56 (1) and (2) point 8, § 58 (1) of the Personal Data Protection Act (hereafter IKS) and Article 58 (1) point d and (2) points d, e and f, also taking into account articles 5 and 6 of the IKÜM, the Data Protection Inspectorate issues a mandatory injunction to comply with XXX: 1. to stop filming outside one's own property (either by dismantling the camera(s) or directing it so that only one's own property remains); 2. delete the existing recordings and send confirmation of this to the inspection at info@aki.ee; 3. if the cameras are redirected, send photos of the camera image to the Data Protection Inspectorate at the e-mail address info@aki.ee to check its scope; 4. in the event that XXX wants to use video surveillance to protect its company's property, a correct legitimate interest analysis must be prepared that meets the conditions set forth in Article 6(1)(f) of the IKÜM (see section 2.1 of the inspection's reasons). We emphasize that the analysis of the legitimate interest must be so clear that it is possible to understand why the processor actually uses the cameras and what he has done so that the rights of the data subjects are not excessively harmed; 5. in the event that XXX wishes to use video surveillance, proper notification signs about the use of video surveillance must be created and installed, and photos of the installed signs must be submitted to the inspection (see section 2.2 of the inspection's reasons); 6. in case XXX uses video surveillance, confirmation must be sent to the inspection that the video recordings will be deleted immediately, but at the latest after 72 hours (see point 2 of the inspection's reasons). A longer storage period is allowed if XXX justifies the need for a longer storage period and the inspection gives a corresponding confirmation; 7. in the event that XXX uses video surveillance, data protection conditions must be drawn up and submitted to the inspectorate, which fully meet the requirements stipulated in articles 12 and 13 of the IKÜM (see points 2.2 of the inspectorate's reasons). We set 25.10.2022 as the deadline for fulfilling the injunction. Report compliance with the order to the e-mail address of the Data Protection Inspectorate at info@aki.ee by this deadline at the latest. REFERENCE FOR DISPUTES: This order can be challenged within 30 days by submitting either: - an appeal under the Administrative Procedure Act to the Data Protection Inspectorate or - an appeal under the Code of Administrative Procedure to the Administrative Court (in this case, the appeal in the same matter cannot be reviewed). Challenging a precept does not stop the obligation to fulfill it or the implementation of measures necessary for fulfillment. WARNING: If the injunction is not complied with by the set deadline, the Data Protection Inspectorate will impose a fine of 2,000 euros on the addressee of the injunction based on § 60 (2) of the Personal Data Protection Act. A fine may be imposed repeatedly - until the injunction is fulfilled. If the recipient does not pay the penalty, it will be forwarded to the bailiff to start enforcement proceedings. In this case, the bailiff's fee and other enforcement costs are added to the enforcement money. MISCONDUCT PUNISHMENT WARNING: Failure to comply with the prescription under Article 58 (1) of the Personal Data Protection General Regulation may result in a misdemeanor proceeding based on § 70 of the Personal Data Protection Act. For this act, a natural person may be fined up to EUR 20,000,000, and a legal person may be fined up to EUR 20,000,000 or up to 4 percent of its global annual turnover of the previous financial year, whichever is greater. The out-of-court procedure for a misdemeanor is the Data Protection Inspectorate. FACTUAL CIRCUMSTANCES: On 31.05.2022, a neighbor of XXX submitted a complaint to the Data Protection Inspectorate, according to which processor XXX has installed XXX cameras on his property, with which he also films other adjacent properties and public space. Therefore, the inspection has started the supervision procedure on the basis of IKS § 56 (3) point 8, within the framework of which the inspection submitted the first proposal to the data processor in the matter of personal data protection on 10.06.2022. The Andekaitse Inspectorate proposed to stop filming the neighboring properties by 27.06.2022 at the latest (either by dismantling the camera(s) or directing them so that only the processor's own property remains) and to delete the existing recordings and to send a confirmation about this to the inspectorate at info@aki.ee. If the camera(s) are redirected, provide the inspection with photos showing the extent of the camera image. Among other things, the inspectorate explained to the processor that if he still finds that he has a legitimate interest in filming some part of the public area (public road), he should analyze whether he has a legitimate interest for this and use information labels about the camera(s). On 27.06.2022, XXX responded to the inspection's proposal and confirmed that it has installed cameras on its property, which also partly film neighboring properties and the public road. The processor did not provide the inspection with a confirmation that it would stop filming neighboring properties and public space, or that it would direct the cameras so that only the processor's own property remained, and did not provide the inspection with photos showing the scope of the camera image. In his response to the inspection, XXX did not justify why he is entitled to film an area that is outside the boundaries of his property. On 15.07.2022, the inspection submitted a repeated proposal to the processor to stop filming outside the processor's property (either by dismantling the camera(s) or directing it so that only the processor's own property remains) and to delete the existing recordings. The inspectorate asked to send a confirmation of this to the inspectorate at info@aki.ee by 22.07.2022 at the latest, and in case of redirection of the camera(s), the inspectorate asked to send photos of the camera image to check its scope. XXX responded to the inspection's repeated proposal on 15.07.2022, but still failed to implement the submitted proposal. The processor has not confirmed to the inspection that he has removed or redirected the cameras, has not forwarded photos of the camera image, and has not confirmed that he has deleted the existing recordings. EXPLANATION OF THE PERSONAL DATA PROCESSOR In the data processor's response to the proposal submitted by the inspectorate on 10.06.2022, the data processor explained that he owns several properties in XXX village and that several cameras have been installed on the properties. Several cameras have been installed on XXX's property, which, according to the processor's explanations, are used for security and protection of property used in business. Also for the sake of security, because there has been an increase in theft of fuel, looting of agricultural machinery, people with unstable and unpredictable behavior are moving around XXX village, who enter other people's property without permission, scare citizens with a dog or threaten them, which is why the use of cameras is unavoidable. The processor states that XXX property is a neighbor of XXX property, but the properties are separated from each other by a tall and dense spruce hedge. Also, a slice of the top of the windowless roof of the neighboring house remains in the camera's field of view, but the processor does not believe that the neighbor would be disturbed by this. Surely he would have informed about it, but at the same time he also has protected strategic places. The property of XXX is located 350-400 meters away from the camera located on the property of XXX, and also no infrared camera with a 180-degree field of view (day and night) is able to monitor or record anything over such a long distance. In the data processor's response to the proposal submitted by the inspectorate on 15.07.2022, the data processor confirmed that the cameras are installed only to monitor the properties it owns and that no neighboring properties are monitored. XXX also explained that a section of public road passes through his properties and if goods related to his business are being loaded and unloaded in this area, the filming of this section is also justified. In addition, important junction signs can also be observed on this section, where appropriate warning signs were also installed. Redirecting the cameras is not considered necessary as there is no invasion of anyone's privacy. Cameras are used only for security and to protect the property of the processor. REASONS FOR THE DATA PROTECTION INSPECTION: 1. Processing of personal data Personal data is any information about an identified or identifiable natural person. An identifiable natural person is a person who can be directly or indirectly identified (see IKÜM Article 4, point 1). The use of security cameras will inevitably lead to the processing of personal data if people are in the field of view. With the help of cameras, the person can be identified in any case. Therefore, in the case of video surveillance, it is a matter of personal data processing, which must comply with the requirements set forth in the IKÜM. 2. Principles of personal data processing The controller of personal data is obliged to comply with the principles set forth in Article 5, paragraph 1 of the IKÜM. The responsible processor himself is responsible for the fulfillment of these principles and must be able to prove their fulfillment (see IKÜM Article 5 paragraph 2). To the extent that data processing does not fully comply with the principles set forth in Article 5, paragraph 1 of the IKÜM, data processing is prohibited. The use of cameras must be based on, among other things, the following principles of personal data processing: - Lawfulness, fairness and transparency (Article 5 paragraph 1 point a) of the General Data Protection Regulation. Any processing of personal data must be fair and legal, i.e. fully in accordance with all valid legislation (including IKÜM and IKS). Data processing must also be transparent. The principle of transparency requires that all information related to the processing of personal data is easily accessible, understandable and clearly formulated for the data subject. This primarily concerns the notification of data subjects in order to ensure fair and transparent processing. Informing people is more precisely regulated by articles 12 - 14 of the IKÜM. Articles 13 and 14 of the IKÜM outline what information given to a person must contain as a minimum. The use of cameras must be based on the requirements of Article 13 of IKÜM. - Purpose and retention limitation. Collecting as little data as possible (ICYM article 5 paragraph 1 points b, c and e). In order to assess whether the use of cameras complies with the principle of purpose limitation and the collection of as little data as possible, it is necessary to: 1) state all specific purposes; 2) assess whether the use of cameras is necessary for the fulfillment of the stated goals or whether there are other measures that are less intrusive to the data subject. - Personal data is processed in a way that ensures the appropriate security of personal data, including protection against unauthorized or illegal processing (Article 5(1)(f) of IKÜM) Personal data processing must be stopped and the data deleted or transferred to a non-personalized form if there is no legal basis for personal data processing and/or the objectives have been met , for which they were collected. Based on the principles of purposefulness and collecting as little data as possible, the camera(s) must be directed to specific security risks. Regarding the storage of camera recordings, we note the following. In its guidelines 3/2019 on the processing of personal data in video devices, the European Data Protection Board has outlined the following:1"Taking into account the principles set out in Article 5(1)(c) and (e) of the General Regulation on Personal Data Protection, namely the collection of as little data as possible and the limitation of storage, personal data should in most cases (e.g. vandalism for discovery) to be deleted - ideally automatically - after a few days. The longer the prescribed retention period (especially if it is longer than 72 hours), the more the legitimacy of the purpose and the necessity of retention must be justified. If the controller uses video surveillance not only to monitor its premises, but also intends to store the data, the controller must ensure that the storage is actually necessary to achieve the purpose. If storage is necessary, the storage period must be clearly defined and established separately for each specific purpose. The controller is responsible for determining the retention period in accordance with the principle of necessity and proportionality and for proving compliance with the provisions of the General Regulation on the Protection of Personal Data. Therefore, in a situation where a longer retention period does not arise from the special law, the retention period of 72 hours should generally be used. We also emphasize here that the longer the recordings are stored, the greater the impact is on the persons who were left on the recordings. In order to be able to check in retrospect who, when and which camera recording has been viewed, a logging system must be created. According to the inspection, logging is the only possible way to check that the camera's live image or recordings have not been viewed illegally, including without reason. 2.1. Preparing a legitimate interest analysis 1 https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb_guidelines_201903_video_devices_et.pdf page 28 p 121 The processing of personal data is legal only if at least one of the IKÜM Article 6 paragraph 1 is fulfilled of the conditions. Thus, personal data may be processed if there is a legal basis for this arising from points a - f of Article 6 (1) of the IKÜM. There is a restriction on the use of security cameras for natural persons (or people). The exception for personal purposes only applies when filming the area you own (the yard of your own private house and your own apartment). In the 2014 decision C-212/132 of the European Court of Justice, it was found that the use of a camera system installed by a natural person on a private house for the protection of property and persons is not only for personal purposes, if such a system also monitors a public space (e.g. a public street) or someone else's property, then, according to the court's decision, it is no longer treated as filming for personal purposes, and there is no basis for filming outside the property area. For example, if a person films his private road, but it has been given to public use or an easement has been set up for the benefit of someone else, then the exception for personal use can no longer be relied upon. According to the judgment of the European Court, a stationary camera contains the risk of profiling people (the camera may repeatedly monitor the activities of a specific person in the field of view of the camera)3. Therefore, there is no legal basis for filming properties belonging to other persons, which would allow them to infringe on their right to privacy. The data subject, whose personal data is processed, has the right to demand the termination of the processing of personal data, if there is no legal basis for this (IKÜM art. 17 paragraph 1 point d). Therefore, the neighbor of the XXX property, whose rights are infringed by the use of cameras, has the right to demand the termination of the processing of his data. The neighbor has also done this by submitting a complaint to the Data Protection Inspectorate. In this case, the Data Protection Inspectorate must find out whether the data processing was legal. In the 15.07.2022 response to the proposal of the Data Protection Inspectorate, XXX justified that the filming of his property is necessary to protect the company's property and ensure security. According to the inspection, the legal basis for the use of XXX cameras could be derived from IKÜ Article 6(1)(f). According to Article 6(1)(f) of IKÜM, the processing of personal data is legal if the processing of personal data is necessary for the legitimate interest of the data controller or a third party, unless such interest is outweighed by the interests of the data subject or the fundamental rights and freedoms for which personal data must be protected . Thus, IKÜM article 6 paragraph 1 point f stipulates three conditions, all of which must be met in order for the processing of personal data to be permitted on the basis of a legitimate interest: - the controller or third parties have a legitimate interest in data processing; - the processing of personal data is necessary for the exercise of a legitimate interest; - the legitimate interests of the data controller and/or third party outweigh the interests, fundamental rights and freedoms of the protected data subject. The possibility of using the said legal basis and its assessment can be graphically divided into three stages, i.e. firstly, the legitimate interests of the personal data processor or third parties and their importance, secondly, the rights and interests of the data subject and their importance, and thirdly, the weighing of conflicting interests, including a preliminary assessment + additional protective measures, if necessary, and a final assessment. Based on the above, the data controller is obliged to compare the legitimate interests of himself and/or a third party with the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject, as a result of which it becomes clear whether 3 of the European Court of Justice of December 11, 2014. request for a preliminary ruling in the case of František Ryneš v Úřad pro ochranu osnych dátní, Application No. C-212/13; as a legal basis for processing, it is possible to rely on article 6, paragraph 1, point f of IKÜM. If the data processor has a legitimate interest in the processing of personal data, this does not automatically mean that the data processor can rely on Article 6(1)(f) of the IKÜM. The justification of the controller's interest is only a starting point, i.e. one of the elements that must be analyzed, and whether the legitimate interest can be relied upon depends on the result of the balancing. It is the duty of the controller to make sure whether the provision of legitimate interest can be relied on, who must carry out the consideration in a transparent manner and be able to justify (prove) it. Therefore, in order to understand whether it is possible to process personal data on the basis of Article 6(1)(f) of the IKÜM, XXX must prove whether and what the legitimate interest of the company is and that it outweighs the rights of individuals. Legitimate interests must be formulated clearly enough. This requires a real and present interest – something related to an activity currently taking place or a benefit expected to be received in the near future. In other words, interests that are too vague or speculative are not enough. If the legitimate interests are not formulated clearly enough, it is not possible to balance said interests with the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject. Therefore, it is important that the legitimate interest is in accordance with the current legislation, formulated clearly enough (ie sufficiently specific) and real and present at the moment (ie not speculative). Secondly, it is necessary to analyze what are the possible interests or fundamental rights of the data subject - and the freedoms that may be harmed by the processing of personal data. Third, the legitimate interests of XXX must be balanced with the interests and fundamental rights of the data subject. In doing so, the impact that may arise on the data subject from the processing (collection, use, storage) of personal data is compared with the legitimate interests of the controller, and it is assessed whether and to what extent the legitimate interest of the controller outweighs the interests of the data subject. We emphasize that the legitimate interests of the controller or a third party do not automatically outweigh the interests related to the fundamental rights and freedoms of the protected data subjects. If the data processor fails to perform one of the previous steps correctly, data processing is not permitted on the basis of Article 6(1)(f) of the IKÜM, and the inspectorate has the right to prohibit further processing of personal data. It must also be taken into account that the analysis of the legitimate interest must be documented and it must be possible for any person to consult it at any time (see IKÜM Article 13(1)(d)). In general, it is sufficient if the data protection conditions provide an indication of how it is possible to view the analysis of legitimate interest (e.g., to view the analysis, write to the e-mail address info@bestablanimi.ee). 2.2. Drafting of data protection conditions Data processing must be transparent. The principle of transparency requires that all information and messages related to the processing of personal data are easily accessible, understandable and clearly worded. In other words, data protection conditions must be drawn up. The content of the data protection conditions is regulated by articles 12 - 14 of the IKÜM. Hereby, we emphasize that all information provided in articles 13 -14 of the IKÜM must be regulated in the data protection conditions. If any of the provisions of the aforementioned articles remain unclear, we recommend that you also familiarize yourself with the guidelines of the Article 29 working group on transparency4, which are on pages 35 – 4https://www.aki.ee/sites/default/files/inspektsioon/rahvusvaheline/juhised/suunised_maaruse_2016679_kohase_labipaistvuse_kohta.pdf 40 the content of the points stipulated in articles 13 - 14 of the IKÜM is also explained in more detail. Here we explain that every processor of personal data must have data protection conditions that regulate the activities of a specific personal data processor. At the same time, the conditions for the use of cameras must also be regulated. In a situation where cameras are used, the data protection conditions or cameras must be based on Article 13 of the IKÜ, i.e. the conditions must reflect, among other things, the following: - the purposes and legal basis of personal data processing; - legitimate interest analysis or information on how it is possible to consult the legitimate interest analysis; - recipients of personal data (e.g. name of authorized processor); - period of storage of personal data (term of storage of camera recordings); - information on the right to request access to personal data and their correction or deletion or restriction of processing of personal data and to object to the processing of such personal data, as well as information on the rights to transfer personal data; - information on the right to file a complaint with the supervisory authority. Article 13 of the IKÜM stipulates that the data controller shall inform the person of all the information stipulated in Article 13 at the time of receiving personal data. In the case of video surveillance, the most important information should be provided on the notification label: the purpose of the processing, the legal basis, the name and contact details of the data controller, and information where the data protection conditions can be found. In addition, we explain that the analysis of legitimate interest must be included in the data protection conditions or the analysis of legitimate interest must be prepared as a separate document and made easily available. 3. Compliance with IKÜM requirements There is no legal basis for filming properties belonging to other persons that would allow them to infringe on their right to privacy. Since XXX has not submitted a mandatory legitimate interest analysis for the use of cameras to the Data Protection Inspectorate, the use of cameras is not permitted based on Article 6(1)(f) of IKÜM, and the cameras must be removed until a correct legitimate interest analysis has been prepared regarding the use of cameras, which will reveal whether and when to what extent (e.g. in which places more precisely) cameras can be used. In case of redirection of cameras, photos of the camera image must be provided so that the inspection can check its scope. We explain that video surveillance in the territory of the company and in the area, which partly also includes the public area, could theoretically be used only if a correct legitimate interest analysis is prepared and it shows that the legitimate interests of the company outweigh the interests of the data subjects. XXX has not prepared such an analysis. Therefore, in the event that XXX still wants to use video surveillance on the company's territory, a correct legitimate interest analysis must be prepared that meets the conditions set forth in Article 6(1)(f) of the IKÜM (see point 2.1 of the inspection's reasons). In addition, proper notification signs about the use of video surveillance must be created and installed, and photos of the installed signs must be submitted to the inspection, and data protection conditions must be prepared and forwarded to the inspection, which fully meet the requirements set forth in Articles 12 and 13 of the IKÜM (see point 2.2 of the inspection's reasons). Summary: 1. XXX to stop filming outside his own property (either by dismantling the camera(s) or directing it so that only his own property remains), 2. to delete the existing recordings and send confirmation of this to the inspection at info@aki.ee; 3. If the cameras are redirected, send photos of the camera image to the Data Protection Inspectorate at the e-mail address info@aki.ee to check its scope; 4. in the event that XXX wants to use video surveillance to protect its company's property, a correct legitimate interest analysis must be prepared that meets the conditions set forth in Article 6(1)(f) of the IKÜM (see section 2.1 of the inspection's reasons). We emphasize that the analysis of the legitimate interest must be so clear that it is possible to understand why the processor actually uses the cameras and what he has done so that the rights of the data subjects are not excessively harmed; 5. in the event that XXX wishes to use video surveillance, proper notification signs about the use of video surveillance must be created and installed, and photos of the installed signs must be submitted to the inspection (see section 2.2 of the inspection's reasons); 6. in case XXX uses video surveillance, confirmation must be sent to the inspection that the video recordings will be deleted immediately, but at the latest after 72 hours (see point 2 of the inspection's reasons). A longer storage period is allowed if XXX justifies the need for a longer storage period and the inspection gives a corresponding confirmation; 7. in the event that XXX uses video surveillance, data protection conditions must be drawn up and submitted to the inspectorate, which fully meet the requirements stipulated in articles 12 and 13 of the IKÜM (see points 2.2 of the inspectorate's reasons). In accordance with § 58 (1) of the Personal Data Protection Act and Article 58 (2) points d, e and f of the General Regulation on Personal Data Protection, the inspectorate has the right to establish a temporary or permanent restriction on the processing of personal data, including a processing ban, and to order that the responsible processor conduct personal data processing operations in a certain manner and comply with IKÜ requirements within a certain period of time. Taking into account the factual circumstances and the fact that in a specific case personal data is processed illegally (data processing does not meet the requirements set forth in Articles 5, 6, 12 and 13 of the IKÜM), the inspectorate considers that issuing a mandatory injunction in this case is necessary in order to end the offense as soon as possible and ensure that the affected protection of the rights of individuals. Mari-Liis Uprus lawyer under the authority of the general director