DATA PROTECTION  ACT  1998  

SUPERVISORY  POWERS OF THE INFORMATION  COMMISSIONER 

ENFORCEMENT  NOTICE 

To:  Dr Telemarketing Ltd 

 

 

Of:  Unit 3, Gateway Mews, Ringway, Bounds Green, London, United 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kingdom, N11 2UT 

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to 
issue Dr Telemarketing Ltd (“DRT”) with an enforcement notice under 
section 40 of the Data Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The notice is being 
 
issued because of a serious contravention of Regulation 21 of the 
Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 
(“PECR”). 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Legal framework 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

DRT, whose registered office is given above (Companies House 
Registration Number: 12750317) is the organisation stated in this 
 
notice to have instigated the use of a public electronic communications 
service for the purpose of making unsolicited calls for the purposes of 
direct marketing contrary to Regulation 21 of PECR. 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulation 21 applies to the making of unsolicited calls for direct 
marketing purposes. It means that if a company wants to make calls 
 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

5. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

   
 

 
promoting a product or service to an individual who has a telephone 
number which is registered with the Telephone Preference Service Ltd 
 
(“TPS”), then that individual must have notified the company that they 
 
do not object to receiving such calls from it. 
 
 
Regulation 21 paragraph (1) of PECR provides that: 
 
 
“(1) A person shall neither use, nor instigate the use of, a public 
 
electronic communications service for the purposes of making 
 
unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes where-
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 
 

(b) 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
the called line is that of a subscriber who has previously 
 
notified the caller that such calls should not for the time 
 
being be made on that line; or 

 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
the number allocated to a subscriber in respect of the 
 
called line is one listed in the register kept under regulation 
 
26.” 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Regulation 21 paragraphs (2), (3), (4) and (5) provide that: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6. 
 
  
         

 
“(2)  A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
of paragraph (1). 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
    
(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 
 
where the number allocated to the called line has been listed on the 
 
register for less than 28 days preceding that on which the call is 
 
made. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(4)  Where a subscriber who has caused a number allocated to a line 

   
 
of his to be listed in the register kept under regulation 26 has 

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 

notified a caller that he does not, for the time being, object to such 
 
calls being made on that line by that caller, such calls may be made 
 
by that caller on that line, notwithstanding that the number 
 
allocated to that line is listed in the said register. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
          

 

(5) Where a subscriber has given a caller notification pursuant to 
 

   

   

 

 

 

 

paragraph (4) in relation to a line of his— 

   

 

 

 

 

 

(a) 
 

 

the subscriber shall be free to withdraw that notification at 
 
any time, and 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(b) where such notification is withdrawn, the caller shall not 
 
make such calls on that line.” 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
   

 
   

Under Regulation 26 of PECR, the Commissioner is required to maintain 
 
a register of numbers allocated to subscribers who have notified them 
 
 
that they do not wish, for the time being, to receive unsolicited calls for 
 
direct marketing purposes on those lines. The TPS is a limited company 
 
which operates the register on the Commissioner’s behalf. Businesses 
 
who wish to carry out direct marketing by telephone can subscribe to 
 
the TPS for a fee and receive from them monthly a list of numbers on 
 
that register. 
 
 
Section 122(5) of the DPA18 defines direct marketing as “the 
 
communication (by whatever means) of any advertising material which 
 
is directed to particular individuals”. This definition also applies for the 
 
 
purposes of PECR (see Regulation 2(2) PECR & Schedule 19 paragraphs 
 
 
430 & 432(6) DPA18). 
 
 
“Individual” is defined in Regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 
 
and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

 
7. 
 

8. 
 

9. 
 

 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

10.  A “subscriber” is defined in Regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
is a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 
communications services for the supply of such services”. 
 

   
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
11.  The DPA contains enforcement provisions at Part V which are 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

exercisable by the Commissioner. Those provisions are modified and 
 
 
extended for the purposes of PECR by Schedule 1 PECR. 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12.  Section 40(1)(a) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 

provides that if the Commissioner is satisfied that a person has 
 
contravened or is contravening any of the requirements of the 
 
Regulations, he may serve him with an Enforcement Notice requiring 
 
 
him to take within such time as may be specified in the Notice, or to 
refrain from taking after such time as may be so specified, such steps 
 
as are so specified. 
  
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

13.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 
 

 
privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 
 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 
 
interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 
overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 
 
rights. 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
14.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 
 
Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
        
 

The contravention 

  
15.  The Commissioner finds that DRT contravened Regulation 21 of PECR. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

16.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.  Between 11 February 2021 and 22 March 2022, DRT instigated the use 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   

 
 

 
   

of a public telecommunications service for the purposes of making 
80,240 unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes to subscribers 
 
where the number allocated to the subscriber in respect of the called 
 
 
line was a number listed on the register of numbers kept by the 
 
Commissioner in accordance with Regulation 26, contrary to Regulation 
 
21(1)(b) of PECR. This resulted in two complaints being made to the 
 
TPS and the Commissioner. 
  
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

18.  The Commissioner is also satisfied for the purposes of Regulation 21 
 

 
that these 80,240 unsolicited direct marketing calls were made to 
 
subscribers who had registered with the TPS at least 28 days prior to 
 
 
receiving the calls, and who for the purposes of Regulation 21(4) had 
not provided valid notification, that they did not object to receiving 
 
such calls. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
19.  For such notification to be valid under Regulation 21(4), the individual 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

   

 
must have taken a clear and positive action to override their TPS 
 
registration and indicate their willingness to receive marketing calls 
 
from the company. The notification should reflect the individual’s 
 
choice about whether or not they are willing to receive marketing calls. 
Therefore, where signing up to use a product or service is conditional 
 
upon receiving marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate 
 
how this constitutes a clear and positive notification of the individual’s 
  
willingness to receive such calls. 
 

 
   

   
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
20.  The notification must clearly indicate the individual’s willingness to 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
receive marketing calls specifically. Companies cannot rely on 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

individuals opting in to marketing communications generally, unless it 
is clear that this will include telephone calls. 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
21.  Further, the notification must demonstrate the individual’s willingness 
 
to receive marketing calls from that company specifically. Notifications 
 
will not be valid for the purposes of Regulation 21(4) if individuals are 
 
asked to agree to receive marketing calls from “similar organisations”, 
  
“partners”, “selected third parties” or other similar generic descriptions. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
22.  DRT has not provided any evidence that the TPS registered individuals 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
had provided notification that they did not object to receiving their 
 
calls. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
23.  The Commissioner has considered, as he is required to do under 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
section 40(2) of the DPA (as extended and modified by PECR) when 
 
deciding whether to serve an Enforcement Notice, whether any 
 
 
contravention has caused or is likely to cause any person damage. The 
 
Commissioner has decided that it is unlikely that damage has been 
 
caused in this instance. 
 
 
In view of the matters referred to above the Commissioner hereby 
 
gives notice that, in exercise of his powers under section 40 of the 
 
DPA, he requires DRT to take the steps specified in Annex 1 of this 
 
Notice. 
 
 
Right of Appeal 
 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24. 
 

25.  There is a right of appeal against this Notice to the First-tier Tribunal 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(Information Rights), part of the General Regulatory Chamber. 
 
Information about appeals is set out in the attached Annex 2. 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dated the 15th  day of February 2024 
 
 
Signed: 
 
Andy Curry 
 
Head of investigations 
 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
 
Wycliffe House 
 
Water Lane 
 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
 
SK9 5AF 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX  1  
 

TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT  NOTICE  

DRT shall within 30 days of the date of this notice: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

  Neither use, nor instigate the use of, a public electronic 
 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

communications service for the purposes of making unsolicited calls 
 
for direct marketing purposes where the called line is that of: 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

(a) a subscriber who has previously provided notification that 
 
such calls should not be made on that line; or 
  
 
(b) a subscriber who has registered their number with the TPS at 
 
least 28 days previously and who has not provided notification 
 
that they do not object to such calls being made. 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
 
ANNEX 2 
 

 

 
RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

 

 

 

 
 
1. 

 

 
2. 
 

 

 
3. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Section 48 of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person upon 
 
 
whom an enforcement notice has been served a right of appeal to the 
 
First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the “Tribunal”) against the 
 
notice. 

 
   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a) 

 
 
b) 

 

 
that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 
 
accordance with the law; or 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of discretion by 
 
the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised his discretion 
  
differently, 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
 
could have been made by the Commissioner. In any other case the 
 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the Tribunal 
at the following address: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
                 
                 
                 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
General Regulatory Chamber 
 
 
HM Courts & Tribunals Service 
 
PO Box 9300 
 
Leicester 
  
LE1 8DJ 

 

 

 

 
Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
 
Email: 

 
grc@justice.gov.uk 

 

 

 

9 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 

 
  The notice of appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

days of the date on which the enforcement notice was sent 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
4. 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier  Tribunal 
 
(General Regulatory Chamber) are contained in sections 48 and 49 of, 
and Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal 
 
 
Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 
 
2009 (Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 

