 
 
 
 
 
 

711.430.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 

 

October 2, 2020

Adaptation of the Berlin data protection law - there is still a lot to do

 

 
On the occasion of the adoption of the law to adapt data protection law
Provisions in Berlin laws to the General Data Protection Regulation (Berlin
Data Protection Adaptation Act EU), instructs the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information, Maja Smoltczyk, pointed out that previous regulatory deficiencies in the Berlin
Data Protection Act survive. She calls on the legislature to do this in the course of the
announced evaluation of the new Berlin Data Protection Act.
 
The aim of the Berlin Data Protection Amendment Act EU is to increase the number of Berliners
State laws to the specifications of the European data protection law, which has been in effect for two years
adjust the basic regulation. Unfortunately, the legislature has this legislative process
not used to remedy significant regulatory deficiencies in the Berlin Data Protection Act.
The Berliner sees especially in the area of data protection supervision and control
Data protection officer still urgent need for improvement.
 
In the areas of the police and judiciary, effective data protection supervision is still lacking
Enforcement Powers. The data protection officer can contact the police and
Judicial authorities continue to issue non-binding orders, but established ones
Report violations only without obligation. This contradicts the clear wording of the
underlying European regulations. This deficit is serious because police
and judicial authorities often collect particularly sensitive data about citizens
process, such as data from witnesses in criminal investigations.
 
In all other areas of public administration, the Berlin Data Protection Authority
make formal arrangements. However, the relevant ones are missing here
enforcement options. Without the possibility of setting fines or a
Such orders can be used to arrange for replacement performance – for example for deletion
illegally stored data - are ultimately not enforced. One
As a result, there is no effective data protection supervision in the entire public administration
guaranteed. In addition, the data protection authority also does not impose fines
Authorities or other public bodies may impose. Especially public bodies
such as hospitals or in-house operations are thus opposed in an unjustifiable manner
privileged to private bodies.
 
There are still control deficits in the important area of data subject rights. The
The right to information about the data stored about oneself is a fundamental one
Principle of the European General Data Protection Regulation. Should the information in individual cases
may be refused, citizens should in principle be able to demand that
corresponding information at least to the competent data protection authority
become. Through this alternative information to the supervisory authority and the resulting

 
Spokeswoman: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

Control aims to ensure that the processing of the data concerned
carried out in accordance with data protection regulations. Even this alternative information can, however, according to the now
Berlin's legal regulation, which continues to apply, was denied by the authority concerned
if it believes that doing so will compromise federal or state security
would be endangered. - Such a restriction of the rights of those affected is not comprehensible, since
the data protection authority is an independent, supreme state authority,
their employees to maintain strict secrecy about what has become known to them in the service
information are required. Not only is this regulation an important control function
of the Berlin data protection supervisory authority. This regulation can lead to cases in which
Citizens their most important data subject right, namely the right to information,
is completely denied. This restriction of a fundamental right is the highest in the rule of law
dubious.

 

A well-known control deficit in the portfolio of the House of Representatives was
new law even tightened. Because although there is still no data protection regulation
for the Berlin Parliament, the law that has now been passed further expands the possibilities
from also transmitting sensitive personal data to the House of Representatives. Also
if one assumes that Parliament does not directly follow the regulations of
European General Data Protection Regulation is subject to such personal data
Data of effective and reliable protective measures and control mechanisms on the
Basis of comprehensible regulations. This was last in connection with the
AfD parliamentary group initiated the "Neutral School" project, which showed that organs of the
Legislation process quite sensitive personal data. concerned citizens
and citizens have so far faced such initiatives in Berlin without any means of control. Here
urgently needs to be improved. Safeguards, which are also used in Parliament
the level of data protection based on the General Data Protection Regulation is ensured
indispensable.
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
"The aim of the Data Protection Adaptation Act was two years after the entry into force of the
General Data Protection Regulation, the Berlin state law finally fully conforms to the specifications of the
adapt to European law. Unfortunately, not all the necessary ones were found
regulations made. Public administration can still change in several ways
evade effective data protection control. This contradicts the requirements of a
modern, transparent and citizen-friendly administration. I really hope that
Legislature the sometimes serious shortcomings in the context of him before the end of the
the evaluation of the new Berlin Data Protection Act announced during the legislative period
becomes."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

