1/19

 Procedure No.: PS/00201/2019

938-090320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following
FIRST: On January 4, 2019, it is registered at the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Claim made by Ms. A.A.A., (in
hereinafter, the claimant), against the Commonwealth of the Region of Pamplona, (in
hereinafter MCP or the Commonwealth), stating that:

“Six months ago the Commonwealth of Pamplona put into operation a
new garbage collection system that implies the need to use cards
nominative by address to be able to use the organic and rest containers.

Now, nearing completion of testing this new system, the Commonwealth
of Pamplona sends us a letter notifying us that in the next
weeks we will be sent "information with the opening data registered in your
home".

Evidently, the Commonwealth of Pamplona had not informed us
users that data was going to be collected, what specific data is collected, or
the treatment and use that will be made of them, thus ignoring the right to
user information”

The claimant attaches a copy of two briefs addressed in May and December
2018 by the President of the Commonwealth to the neighbors in relation to the
start-up of a pilot test to implement a new opening system
with card for the organic matter (brown) and rest (grey) containers in order to
to improve the results obtained in the selective collection of organic matter.

In the letter sent in May 2018, they are indicated as novelties of the new

system:

“- The key to open the brown container is replaced by a card

magnetic;

- This card will open the brown container and, from now on, the

rest container.

- Each household will receive two cards associated with the home address that

will allow the data of its use to be recorded.”

In the letter sent in December 2018, the President of the Commonwealth
informed that "In the coming weeks we will send you information with the data of
openings registered at your address or establishment, and with those points of
improvement in which you can advance in the event that proper use is not made of
The containers".

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/19

(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), dated February 19, 2019, the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection transferred said claim to the MCP for its analysis and
communication to the claimant of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required that within a month he send certain information to the AEPD,
among which was to report on the causes that had motivated the
facts that gave rise to the claim and report on the measures adopted
to prevent similar incidents from occurring.

On March 8, 2019, a written entry is registered in the AEPD of the
MCP noting that it has proceeded to transfer the claim to the company "Services
de la Comarca de Pamplona, S.A.”, (hereinafter, SCPSA), to proceed to give
response to the request made in accordance with the following:

-

That the MCP is the Public Administration that owns the services of
water supply and sanitation, waste management and urban transport,
The management of the services corresponds to SCPSA, a public capital company
exclusive of that, in accordance with the provisions of article 1 of the Regulation of
Relations between the Commonwealth and SCPSA, approved by the General Assembly of
that.

Article 2.3 of said Regulation attributes to SCPSA the material provision of
business activity, among whose functions is the ownership of the
legal relationship with users of urban waste management services
entrusted.

Articles 3 and 4 of the Ordinance regulating Waste Management in the
Commonwealth of the Pamplona Region (BON No. 245 of 12/23/2013) reaffirm the
condition of SCPSA as holder of relations with users of the service of
waste management.

Article 1 of the Regulatory Ordinance of Patrimonial Benefits of
Non-tax Public Character for the Provision of Management Services of the
Urban Waste 2019 (BON nº 249 of 12/28/2018) determines that the SCPSA provides
and manages the aforementioned services. Articles 3, 4.1 and 5.1 of this Ordinance collect
the financing regime of the service, based on its nature as reception
mandatory, and derived directly from the ownership or use of the property, for which
use the data from the Registry of Territorial Wealth of Navarra and the file of
users registered on 09/21/2009 in the AEPD by said company, being the
cadastral value the tax base of the public and non-tax patrimonial provision.

-

That the MCP has not put into operation the new system of
garbage collection that implies the need to use name cards for
home; who has not requested any information from any citizen about the cards
nominative to be able to use the organic and rest containers, lacking
any information about the use of said cards.

THIRD: On March 20, 2019, it is registered at the AEPD
letter from the SCPSA Data Protection Delegate stating that the
claim is not justified as there has been no data processing
of a personal nature, which is why no specific measures have been adopted against
the claim. as has also been reported to the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/19

The Commonwealth holds the competence and responsibility for the services
of collection and treatment of urban waste, whose comprehensive service manages
through its management company SCPSA, by virtue of the provisions of the Ordinance
Regulation of Urban Waste Management published in the Official Gazette of
Navarra No. 17, dated February 7, 2007.

The Navarre Waste Plan 2017-2017 obliges the administrations
competent public authorities and managers of urban waste to adopt the measures
necessary to achieve the recycling targets set out therein,
establishing a separation at source of organic matter of 50% in 2020 and
of 70% in 2027.

In compliance with the MCP/SCPSA Annual Management Plan 2017, the
The "pilot project for the design of a system of containers for organic matter
organic and the rest that allows the identification of users and the measurement of
amount of waste deposited, with the aim of substantially increasing the
separation at source.” Among the actions put in place to achieve the
increased separation at source of organic matter (also MO, in
ahead), there is the pilot test consisting of establishing a system for opening
closed OM containers, with opening by means of a card linked to the
homes that allows the collection of data to analyze the impact and monitoring of
its use. To carry out this follow-up, the unit of measurement has been taken
postal address, so personal data has not been taken into account for the
Service management,

It was decided to carry out this pilot project in two different areas of the region
with a duration of one semester. The cards have engraved on the outside the
postal address to which the card is linked. The delivery of the cards
made prior communication to the different postal addresses of the existence and
pilot program goals. Two cards were distributed for the opening of
containers for each postal address (home or local), and the total figures at the beginning
of the project were 8,266 cards.

The same postal address appears on each of the two cards in order to
be able to log usage activity for that address. The information obtained is
kept in independent databases in order to obtain and exploit the
statistical information regarding their use. While the use of
cards has not been limited to the owners (individual or legal entity) or users of the
postal address and its use has not been prohibited from being transferred to third parties, the information
collected through the cards does not allow establishing a direct and
unequivocal with any identified or identifiable natural person, which is why the
information obtained is not subject to the data protection regime
personal data as the definition of personal data of the RGPD is not met.

They point out that to obtain the postal addresses, the
postal addresses of the cadastral units of the area of the Commonwealth of the
Region of Pamplona that appears in the Registry of Territorial Wealth of Navarra
and that are subject to invoicing of the waste rate, according to the ordinance of
prices for this service.

They provide capture printing of the front and back of one of said Cards
of “Selective waste collection” meaning that it does not contain any data
personal, only the mailing address to which the card was delivered.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/19

As for the application where the card data is stored, of which
provide capture of a record of the same, it is argued that it only contains data related to
the postal address, without storing other information that may relate said
postal address with an identified or identifiable natural person. Each card has
your unique identifier number and the data obtained are only
referenced to that number. The card application and its related data are
are stored in the CPD (Data Processing Center) of the
Commonwealth.

They point out that during the development of the aforementioned pilot project,
carried out an indirect control of the use of the containers by the citizens and
their changes in habits compared to the previous situation. As part of said
action, it was considered of interest to send to the postal addresses of the cards the
usage statistics of the cards delivered to the respective postal addresses
in order to compare the results with the global data. Previously,
In December 2018, an informative letter was sent announcing that the
proceed with said shipment, which is what the claimant refers to, although in the same
only aggregate statistical data on the use of the cards delivered in their
respective postal addresses for the purpose of being able to contrast them with the data
global of the rest of the users of the program. At no time have they been indicated or
used data that allows such information to be related to natural persons
identified or identifiable.

FOURTH: In view of the documentation provided by the SCPSA, it is observed:

 From the capture printout of the provided card, it is verified:
That on the front of the same appears denominated as "Collection
recycling of waste”/“Hondakinen gaikako biketa”, including, among other information
relating to the type of waste, the Commonwealth logo, a postal address with
street number and floor below which there is an identification number.

On the other hand, on the back of the card there is the following legend: “This
The card is owned by the Commonwealth of the Pamplona Region and its use is
subject to the conditions determined by it”, which is also written in
Basque, under which is the logo of the claimed linked to the "Mancomunidad
Comarca de Pamplona”/“Iruñerriko Mankomunítatea”, also including data on
contact information for the Commonwealth Citizen Service.

Of the communications sent in May, June, July and December 2018 to the
addresses of the neighbors affected by the aforementioned pilot project, a copy of which is
has attached to the letter of the SCPSA registered in this Agency dated March 20
of 2019, it is observed that they are headed by the logo of the claimed and signed
by the President of the MCP, without making any reference to the
SCPSA.

Thus, for example, in the header of the letter sent in June 2018 the
following sentence: “As we recently announced in the letter sent by this
Commonwealth, on May 28 we started the informative actions with
reason for the pilot test of the new container system.”

Likewise, the heading of the letter sent in July 2018 included:
“As we recently announced to you in a previous letter sent by this
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/19

Commonwealth, on June 18 began in ***LOCALIDAD.1 the pilot test
of the new container system with magnetic card opening.”

FIFTH: In accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD and for the purposes provided
In its article 64.2, dated June 12, 2019, the Director of the AEPD agreed
admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing
SIXTH: On November 14, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure of warning to the
claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, for the alleged
infringement of article 14 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

Said agreement stated: “That, if the existence of
infringement, for the purposes provided in article 58.2 of the RGPD the corrective measure
that could be imposed on the ASSOCIATION OF THE REGION OF PAMPLONA, with
NIF (...), in the resolution, would consist of ORDERING, under the provisions of the
article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the adoption of the necessary measures to facilitate the
magnetic container opening cards, used for selective collection
of residues the information relative to the extremes indicated in article 14 of the
RGPD when they include data of identified persons or, as in this case,
include data of identifiable people, for which you must take into account the
provided in article 6 of the RGPD in relation to the legality of the treatment. Bliss
The measure must be adopted, where appropriate, within a period of one month computed from the
day following the notification of the sanctioning resolution, and must also
provide within the same period the means of proof accrediting their
compliance."

The aforementioned agreement to start the procedure was notified to the

Commonwealth by electronic means dated November 15, 2019.

SEVENTH
 : Dated November 28, 2019, entry is registered in this Agency
 
brief of the Commonwealth's arguments to the aforementioned initial agreement in which it indicates
the measures it has decided to adopt to comply with the obligations
indicated in article 14 of the RGPD, and that are indicated in the Legal Basis
VI of this resolution.

EIGHTH: On December 19, 2019, a resolution proposal was formulated in
in the sense that by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency:

-Is imposed on the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article
58.2.b) of the RGPD, a sanction of warning for an infringement of article 14 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

- The defendant is ordered in the resolution that may fall, under the protection of
what is established in article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, which accredits the sending to the
interested parties affected by the pilot test of the informative communications that were
indicated in the Legal Basis V of the proposed resolution formulated,
as well as that, if the opening system of
containers studied, had foreseen the adoption of the necessary measures to
that in the magnetic cards for opening containers that are going to be used

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/19

for the selective collection of waste, information regarding the
extremes indicated in article 14 of the RGPD when they include data of people
identified or identifiable.

- Communicate the resolution to the Ombudsman.
The aforementioned proposed resolution was notified to the MCP on 19

December 2019.
NINTH: On February 17, 2020, entry is registered in this Agency
letter of allegations of the MCP to the aforementioned proposal in which it communicates the
measures that it has decided to adopt through the SCPSA, and that are cited in the
Legal basis VII of this resolution.

PROVEN FACTS

First: On January 4, 2019, it is registered at the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Claim filed by the claimant against the
Commonwealth of the Pamplona Region (MCP), since it had not informed the
interested parties about the processing of personal data used in the framework of the
pilot test carried out to implement a new card opening system
magnetic for containers of organic matter and rest.
Second: The MCP is the public administration that owns the services of
water supply and sanitation, waste management and urban transport, which
provided through "Services of the Region of Pamplona, S.A.", (SCPSA), a company
merchant with exclusive capital of the MCP.
Third: In compliance with the 2017 Annual Management Plan, the MCP launched
in two areas of the region, between June and December 2018, a pilot project
based on the implementation of a material container opening system
organic and the rest by means of magnetic cards linked to the postal address of the
homes and establishments that would allow the identification of users, the
measurement of the amount of waste deposited and monitoring of the use of such
containers through the activity of using the cards.
Fourth: For each postal address (address or premises) the MCP provided two business cards
container opening. On each of the cards was:

On the front, the card is linked to the "Selective Collection of
waste”/“Hondakinen gaikako biketa”, including, among other information, the logo
of the MCP, the postal address with street number and floor to which the
card and the unique identification number of the card.

On the reverse, the legend appears:

 “This card is the property of the
Commonwealth of the Region of Pamplona and its use is subject to the conditions
determined by it”, also written in Basque, the MCP logo
associated with the “Mancomunidad Comarca de Pamplona”/“Iruñerriko Mankomunítatea”, and
the information contact details of the Citizen Attention Service of the
Commonwealth.
Fifth: The postal addresses used in the aforementioned opening cards are
obtained from the cadastral units of the scope of the MCP that appear in the Registry

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/19

of the Territorial Wealth of Navarre and that are subject to invoicing of the rate
of residues, according to the ordinance of prices of that service.
Sixth: The application in which the information related to the use of
the opening cards record the postal addresses of the homes of the
dwellings and establishments to which they are linked and their identification number
unique.
Seventh: It is stated in the sanctioning procedure that in the months of May, June,
July and December 2018, the President of the MCP sent and signed as such, both
communications addressed to the neighbors affected by the implementation
of the pilot test. In these communications, the President of the MCP reported
on the reasons and the scope of the new system, the operation of the cards
delivered and the percentage result and separation of organic matter obtained with the
information available at the date of the shipment in question in relation to the objective
programmed in the Navarra Waste Plan.

All of these communications display the MCP logo linked to the
“Association Comarca de Pamplona”/“Iruñerriko Mankomunítatea”, and they do not
no reference to the management company SCPSA or its participation in the
development of the pilot test reported on.

Thus, for example, in the header of the letter sent in June 2018 the
following sentence: “As we recently announced in the letter sent by this
Commonwealth, on May 28 we started the informative actions with
reason for the pilot test of the new container system.”

Likewise, the heading of the letter sent in July 2018 included:
“As we recently announced to you in a previous letter sent by this
Commonwealth, on June 18 began in ***LOCALIDAD.1 the pilot test
of the new container system with magnetic card opening.”
Eighth: In the communication sent by the President of the MCP in December
2018 it indicated, among other extremes:

“With the information available at this time, it can be confirmed that the
new opening system is offering encouraging results: in the case of
***LOCATION.1 63% of the Matter is being properly deposited
Organic generated, which represents an important advance with respect to 18% with the
the pilot experience began.

In the coming weeks we will send you information with the details of
openings registered at your address or establishment, and with those points of
improvement in which you can advance in the event that proper use is not made of
The containers."
Ninth: The communications sent by the MCP outlined in the proven facts
above and the "Selective waste collection cards" linked to the addresses
that were delivered to the neighbors of the areas in which it was launched
the aforementioned pilot test did not include the information indicated in article 14 of the
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/19

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

 By virtue of the powers that articles 55.1 and 2, 57.1 and 58.2.b) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27,
2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the treatment
of personal data and the free circulation of these data, (hereinafter RGPD),
recognize each control authority, and as established in arts. 47, 48.1,
77.1.c) and 2 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Articles 1 and 2.1 of the RGPD provide the following:
“Article 1. Object
1. This Regulation establishes the rules relating to the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and
rules relating to the free movement of such data.

2. This Regulation protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of
natural persons and, in particular, their right to data protection
personal.

3. The free movement of personal data in the Union may not be
restricted or prohibited for reasons related to the protection of persons
regarding the processing of personal data.

Article 2. Material scope of application
1. This Regulation applies to the treatment in whole or in part
automated processing of personal data, as well as the non-automated processing of data
personal content or intended to be included in a file.”

For these purposes, it is recalled that article 4 of the RGPD, under the rubric

“Definitions”, provides that:

 “For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/19

physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Thus, in accordance with these definitions, it constitutes data processing
of identifiable natural persons the inclusion of the postal address object of
usage tracking along with a unique identifier number in each of the two
magnetic cards delivered by postal address used (address or local) in the
framework of the aforementioned pilot project, developed by the Commonwealth in two areas
of the Region of Pamplona, in order to collect data at source on the
use by citizens of the new waste containers for raw materials
organic and rest installed to facilitate the achievement of recycling objectives
marked in the Navarra Waste Plan.

So through the postal addresses included in the cards
natural persons are identifiable, if any, required to pay the
non-tax public patrimonial benefits,- condition attributed to
rates for the provision of urban waste management services-, which
by any title
  homes, premises,
establishments or centers for whose benefit or benefit that service is provided or arranged.
service of a general and compulsory nature, and may even be identifiable
natural persons who own the real estate and are obliged to make said payment
when the beneficiaries of the service are not known.

  live, occupy or enjoy

III

In this proceeding, the Commonwealth is accused of violating the

duty to inform provided for in article 14 of the RGPD, a precept that establishes:

“Article 14. Information that must be provided when the personal data is not

have been obtained from the interested party

1. When the personal data has not been obtained from the interested party, the

The data controller will provide you with the following information:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their

representative;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined, as well as the

legal basis of the treatment;

d) the categories of personal data in question;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data,

in your case;

f) Where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
consignee in a third country or international organization and the existence or absence
of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or, in the case of transfers
indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/19

reference to adequate or appropriate safeguards and means of obtaining a
copy of them or the fact that they have been lent.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will provide the interested party with the following information necessary to guarantee
Fair and transparent data processing with respect to the interested party:

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when that

not possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the

Legitimate interests of the controller or a third party;

c) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access
to the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, and to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to
data portability;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent before its withdrawal;

e) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
f) the source from which the personal data comes and, if applicable, if they come from

from publicly accessible sources;

g) the existence of automated decisions, including the preparation of
profiles, referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases,
significant information about the applied logic, as well as the importance and
anticipated consequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. The data controller will provide the information indicated in the

sections 1 and 2:

a) within a reasonable period of time, once the personal data has been obtained, and
within one month at the latest, taking into account the specific circumstances in which
that said data is processed;

b) if the personal data is to be used for communication with the
concerned, at the latest at the time of the first communication to said
interested, or

c) if it is planned to communicate them to another recipient, at the latest at the time

in which the personal data is communicated for the first time.

4. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of the
personal data for a purpose other than that for which it was collected,
will provide the interested party, before said further treatment, information about that
other purpose and any other pertinent information indicated in section 2.

5. The provisions of sections 1 to 4 shall not apply when and in the

extent to which:

a) the interested party already has the information;
b) the communication of said information is impossible or supposes a
disproportionate effort, in particular for processing for archival purposes in
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/19

public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, to
Subject to the conditions and guarantees indicated in article 89, section 1, or in the
insofar as the obligation referred to in paragraph 1 of this article may
disable or seriously impede the achievement of the objectives of such treatment. In
In such cases, the person in charge will adopt adequate measures to protect the rights,
liberties and legitimate interests of the interested party, including making public the
information;

c) the obtaining or communication is expressly established by the
Law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the person responsible for the
treatment and that establishes adequate measures to protect the legitimate interests
of the interested party, or

d) when the personal data must remain confidential
on the basis of an obligation of professional secrecy regulated by the Law of the
Union or of the Member States, including an obligation of secrecy of a nature
statutory.”

Said precept must be related to the provisions of article 12 of the

same Regulation, which in section 1 establishes the following:

“Article 12. Transparency of information, communication and modalities of

exercise of the rights of the interested party.

1. The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the
interested all the information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication pursuant to articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language,
in particular any information directed specifically at a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading “Transparency and

information to the affected party”, in its section 3 determines that:

"3. When the personal data had not been obtained from the affected party, the
responsible may comply with the duty of information established in article
14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the aforementioned basic information
in the previous section, indicating an electronic address or other means that allows
easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

In these cases, the basic information will also include:
a) The categories of data subject to treatment.
b) The sources from which the data came.”
According to section 2 of the aforementioned article 11 of the LOPDGDD, the
basic information referred to in section 3 of the same article must, at the
minus, contain:

"two. (…)
a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, in his

case.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/19

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

IV

Starting from the fact that in the previous Basis of Law II it has been
justified that, on the dates in which the aforementioned pilot test was developed, the MCP carried
carry out a treatment of personal data consisting of including in the cards
magnetic fields to be tracked the postal addresses of natural persons who
were easily identifiable, it is estimated that the MCP is responsible for
such treatment according to the content of the Magnetic Cards
delivered to the neighbors of the postal addresses included in the
same and that, in turn, endorses the information provided by the President of the MCP
to said neighbors and neighbors in the communications that he addressed to them between May and
December 2018 on the occasion of the implementation and development of the pilot project
associated with the new container system (Proven Facts Fourth, Seventh and
Eighth), documentation, in which, on the other hand, there is no mention of the
SCPSA.

Based on the foregoing, it is also proven in the procedure that during
the implementation of the aforementioned pilot test, the MCP did not provide the
interested persons affected by said treatment the information regarding the
extremes indicated in article 14 of the RGPD that must be provided to them when
personal data have not been obtained from them, as has happened in
this case in which the information of the postal addresses treated in the test
The pilot came from the cadastral units of the MCP that appear in the
Register of the Territorial Wealth of Navarra, and which are subject to invoicing of
the waste rate, according to the price ordinance of that service (Proven Fact
Fifth).

In this way, the MCP failed to comply with the duty of information that was
required by not providing in the communications addressed to the interested parties or in the
cards distributed to them for the opening of containers the information
relative to the extremes indicated in article 14 of the aforementioned RGPD.
Duty that could have been fulfilled by providing in said documents the information
basic indicated in sections 2 and 3 of article 11 of the LOPDGDD and indicating
an electronic address or other means that would allow access in a simple and
immediately to the rest of the information.

Consequently, the MCP, in its capacity as data controller
carried out with the personal data used in the pilot test developed to
implement a new card opening system for material containers
organic and the rest, has not shown the diligence that was required to facilitate
interested parties affected by this treatment the information outlined in the article
14 of the RGPD, thus violating their right to be informed
of the aspects outlined in said precept, since the personal data used

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/19

had not been obtained from the interested parties affected by the treatment
studied.

v

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Sections b), d) and i) of article 58.2 of the RGPD, "Powers", provide the

Next:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;”

(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

“i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case;

For the purposes of determining the sanction that could be associated with the conduct

described, the following precepts must be taken into account:

Article 83 of the RGPD, under the heading “General conditions for the

imposition of administrative fines”, establishes in section 5.b) that:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

(…)
b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”
In turn, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements

considered very serious”, provides:

  "1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/19

(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

In parallel, article 83.7 of the RGPD establishes that:
Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.

In this sense, sections 1.c), 2, 4 and 5 of article 77 of the LOPDGDD, under
the heading “Regime applicable to certain categories of responsible or
data processors", establish the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the

autonomous communities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

(…)
2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1
committed any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of
this organic law, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
body on which it reports hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who have
the condition of interested party, if any.”

"4. The data protection authority must be informed of the
resolutions that fall in relation to the measures and actions to be
refer to the previous sections

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the
resolutions issued under this article.”

In accordance with the foregoing, the treatment carried out by the MCP during the
development of the pilot test constitutes an infringement of the provisions of article 14 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the aforementioned legal text and qualified as very
serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD, and may be
sanctioned with a warning, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the
RGPD in its relationship with the provisions of article 77.1.c) and 2 of the LOPDGDD.

SAW

In this case, the MCP in its brief of allegations to the initial agreement
communicated that it had “resolved to adopt the necessary measures to comply with
to the obligations indicated in article 14 of the General Protection Regulation
of Data and therefore will inform, through its Management Company, Services of the
Region of Pamplona, S.A. to all interested parties on the ends indicated in
the aforementioned article 14 of the RGPD.”, adding that “Given the impossibility that this
information appears on the card already distributed in the pilot test, the information is
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/19

will be carried out by means of communication to the interested parties.”, also noting that
will provide this Agency with "the means of proof accrediting the aforementioned
communications, once they are made.”

In view of which, the Instructor of the procedure considered it convenient
propose to the Director of the AEPD the application of the provisions of article
58.2.d) of the RGPD, proposing to order the MCP not only the accreditation of the shipment
of the aforementioned communications to the interested parties affected by the pilot test with
the information related to the requirements contemplated in article 14 of the RGPD, but
also carrying out the necessary actions to adapt the treatments
similar to the one studied in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, which has resulted
violated. So that in the event that the container opening system
by magnetic card that includes personal data that has not been
obtained from the interested parties becomes implanted throughout the Commonwealth certifies the
establishment of the necessary mechanisms to comply with the duty of
inform collected in the aforementioned article 14 of the RGPD.

7th

After notification of the proposed resolution, the MCP alleged
having decided to adopt, through the SCPSA, the measures that are
point out, and whose communication was carried out, "before carrying out the communications and
to implement the measures planned in the future”:

a)

Informative communication to be sent to interested persons

affected by the pilot test.

In the attached copy, dated February 2020, headed with the
MCP logo and signed by its President, appears, among others, the following
information:

“In June 2018,

(Pamplona) and ***LOCATION.2
(Baerrioplano) were the two areas in which the pilot experience began in de
implementation of the new waste collection system, which incorporates the opening of
the organic matter (Brown) and rest (grey) containers by means of a card
magnetic identified with the postal address on the outside.

 ***LOCATION.1

In relation to the data recorded by these cards and their treatment
later, the Spanish Data Protection Agency has indicated the need to
Provide users with the information that we reproduce below:

<<Each of the cards delivered incorporates a device that allows
record the number of openings of the different containers, data that will be
associated with the postal address indicated on the outside of the card.

As they are data, sometimes relating to an identified natural person or
identifiable, the information obtained regarding the opening of containers will be
treated in accordance with the personal data protection regulations.

All data collected as a result of the use of these
cards will be treated under the responsibility of Services of the Comarca de
Pamplona S.A. (SCPSA), to analyze the use of containers in the
fractions of organic matter and rest, and specifically to know their degree of
use in order to achieve the regulatory objectives of application, as well as for the
carrying out information activities, promotion of the service and its results.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/19

Likewise, we inform you that you can exercise your rights of access,
rectification, deletion and the rest of the rights that assist you, by contacting the
Responsible for the Treatment through the email protecciondatos@mcp.es.

you can check

 

Additional Information

www.mcp.es/fichadatosresiduos>>

  about privacy in

The objective of complying with European legislation on waste and of achieving
an environmentally sustainable region committed to the fight against change
Climate change is a collective effort that requires the contribution of each neighbor and each
neighbor. (…)”

b)

To comply with the duty to inform contained in article 14 of the
RGPD in the implementation throughout the Commonwealth of the new system for opening
containers by card, have foreseen the introduction of the following information
basic on data protection in the opening cards, with indication of a
electronic address that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the
information:

Responsible: Services de la Comarca de Pamplona, S.A.
You can exercise your rights at protecciondatos@mcp.es
Additional information at www.mcp.es/fichadatosresiduos.
It is argued that due to the limited space available to include in the aforementioned
card all the basic information provided for in the applicable regulations, has been
willing to provide a minimum information that can be expanded through the
electronic address indicated, which will contain the additional information on protection
of data, whose content is indicated in the file of Waste Cards.

c)

Waste card file, hosted at the url to which the letter refers

information www.mcp.es/fichadatosresiduos, (hereinafter, the card).

In the copy attached with the additional information in question, it is stated

The following sections are completed:

Who is responsible for the processing of your data?, where it is identified
as such to SCPSA, whose postal address and email are provided. Also
The Data Protection Delegate is identified, providing his address and email
electronic.

For what purpose do we treat your data?, in which it is stated that "The data of
opening of the containers for each of the cards will be treated to analyze
the use of containers in the fractions of organic matter and rest and in
concrete to know its degree of use in order to achieve the regulatory objectives
of application, as well as for carrying out activities to promote the service and
Your results.

For how long do we keep your data?
What is the legitimacy for the treatment of your data?
To which recipients will your data be communicated?
What are your rights when you provide us with your data?, where the
rights of access, rectification, deletion, limitation of treatment, opposition and
portability. It is added that “If you consider that the data has not been correctly

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/19

treated, you can inform us through the email address
email protecciondatos@mcp.es and later go to the authority of
control: Spanish Data Protection Agency.”

“How did we obtain your data?
Of the data on the use of the card by the interested party.
From the registry of Territorial Wealth approved by Foral Law 12/206, of 21

november.

The types of data that are processed are:
IDs. Name and surnames, associated postal address.
Of transactions. Data on the use of cards linked to the address

Postcard."

In view of the content of said documents, the following can be observed:
- Regarding the informative communication to be sent to interested persons
affected by the pilot test, the following statement “In relation to
with the data recorded by these cards and their subsequent treatment, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection has pointed out the need to provide users and
users the information that we reproduce below:”, whenever it is
uncertain that the AEPD has required the textual provision of the information given
by reproduced in the quoted text, which is proved by the simple reading
of the acts involved in the procedure.

- Regarding the additional information on data protection accessible to
through the url www.mcp.es/fichadatosresiduos that would appear included in the cards,
the following irregularities are detected in relation to the information that must be
be provided in accordance with the provisions of article 14 of the RGPD:

Not stating that the personal data subject to treatment have been
obtained from the interested parties, however, in the section on the time of
conservation of the same, it is noted that "The personal data provided is
will keep (...)”

Regarding the categories of personal data or types of data that are processed
the treatment of name and surnames linked to the postal address that
appears on the cards, when in the documentation contained in the procedure
It only consists of the treatment of the postal address as personal data object of
treatment on these cards.

In relation to the information referred to that "If you consider that the data does not
have been correctly treated, you can inform us through the
email address protecciondatos@mcp.es and then go to
before the control authority: Spanish Agency for Data Protection.”, it is observed
that article 14.2.e) is limited to indicating the duty to inform about “the right to
file a claim with a control authority” without introducing any type of
condition prior to the exercise of that right.
viii

Confirmed the existence of the infringement of the duty to inform provided for in the
Article 14 of the RGPD by the MCP during the development of the project
analyzed, and in view of the irregularities observed in the documentation
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/19

reviewed, it is considered appropriate to apply the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD,
ordering the MCP to eliminate from the informative communication to be sent to the people
stakeholders affected by the pilot test the statement contained therein
referred to the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to order the MCP to carry out the
necessary actions so that the processing of personal data
included in the magnetic container opening cards to be implanted throughout
the Commonwealth carries with it that, on the part of the person in charge of the treatment,
adapt the information to be included in the layered information system that has been
alleged was going to be used by the person in charge of the treatment to the requirements
contemplated in the aforementioned precept, which will require the correction of the
informative irregularities made manifest in the previous Foundation of
Right in relation to additional information. (Waste Card File)

Such measures must be adopted within ONE MONTH, computed from the
day following the day on which the resolution of the procedure is notified,
must be accredited by the claimed compliance within the same period by means of the
provision of documentation or any other means of proof valid in law that
allows to verify its adoption and implementation in an irrefutable manner.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and valued the

circumstances concurrent in the infraction whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO IMPOSE the PAMPLONA REGION ASSOCIATION, with
NIF P3112070B, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.b) of the RGPD, a
sanction of warning for an infringement of Article 14 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.
SECOND: TO ORDER the COMMUNITY OF THE REGION OF PAMPLONA,
with NIF P3112070B, under the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, the
adoption of the measures indicated in Legal Basis VIII for the purposes of
adapt the information to be offered to the provisions of article 14 of the RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMONWEALTH OF THE
REGION OF PAMPLONA.

FOURTH
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/19

the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

