
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a legal regulation that is directly applicable in its entirety in the European Union from May 25, 2018, marked a turning point in the field of personal data protection and significantly changed the awareness of the importance of personal data protection among business entities and individuals. However, the educational and supervisory activities of the Agency show that compliance with the legislative framework for data protection in the Republic of Croatia is still not satisfactory, therefore, within the framework of its advisory role, the Agency invests significant efforts in organizing activities to raise the level of awareness of data protection intended for all target groups.
After the Consultations held in the Croatian Employers' Association and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce for managers/executors of processing and data protection officers, on Thursday, May 25, on the 5th anniversary of the full application of the General Data Protection Regulation, educational activities for citizens and students were held.

Webinar for citizens "How to protect your personal data and what are my rights?"
Although awareness of the importance of personal data protection has increased significantly in the last few years, citizens unfortunately still very often carelessly dispose of their personal data and do not know or misinterpret their rights guaranteed by the General Data Protection Regulation. Therefore, the Agency organized a webinar for all interested citizens entitled "How to protect my personal data and what are my rights?", in order to inform citizens about their rights related to the processing of their personal data.
For example, citizens are often not informed that they have the right to access personal data, that is, that they have the right to receive a copy of their personal data that the organization collects about them, as well as that they have the right to be informed about the processing of their personal data. In particular, when a certain organization collects an individual's data, it must also inform him of how it uses his personal data. Therefore, when giving their personal data to any organization, citizens should know that they have the right to ask why and for what purpose their personal data is being processed, to whom it will be forwarded, how long it will be kept, what is the legal basis for its processing, etc. Organizations must be able to give citizens answers to such questions, and answers like "because such are the business rules" or "we need it just in case", "I don't know, they told me to do it that way", are not acceptable. In any case, organizations should know on which legal basis and for which purposes they collect personal data and educate their employees about it.
However, it should be emphasized that in order to exercise their rights, citizens should first contact the controller (e.g. the bank where they have a loan, school, hospital, etc.), and if the controller does not comply with the request, they can contact the Personal Data Protection Agency with a request to establish a violation of rights.








Rights of citizens







How to exercise your rights









In addition to the rights, which you can read about here, the Agency's officials in the webinar also touched on the protection of personal data on the Internet, i.e. the most common online frauds that happen every day, which you can read about in the brochure How to protect your personal data online?

Education for third-grade students of Elementary School Rabska
Agency officials also spoke about the protection of personal data on the Internet to the third graders of the Rabska Elementary School in Zagreb. Namely, the General Data Protection Regulation recognizes children as a vulnerable group, i.e. children deserve special protection with regard to their personal data because they may be less aware of risks and consequences, therefore awareness of the importance of personal data protection needs to be built during childhood.
With the education "Let's learn to protect our own and other people's personal data on the Internet", students learned what personal data is, how to properly handle their own and other people's personal data, and how they can be misused.
But in order to warn of the dangers lurking on the Internet, of which students are often not even aware, the emphasis of the education was precisely on prevention and protection from all potential dangers. False representations, hate speech, identity theft, fraud, pedophilia are just some of the dark sides, and the most widespread problem when using the Internet among children and young people is electronic violence or cyberbullying.


















