 
 
 
 
 
 

711,449

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

December 1, 2021

TTDSG comes into effect: Clear rules for cookies and similar technologies

 
Today, December 1, 2021, the telecommunications telemedia data protection
law (TTDSG) in force. The law regulates, among other things, the protection of confidentiality and
Privacy when using telemedia such as websites, messengers or smart home
Devices.
 
“The TTDSG also changes the legal framework for the use of cookies and
comparable technologies,” explains Volker Brozio, Acting Head of Department
Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. “The law creates clarity
and confirms the opinion of the data protection authority: For the use of cookies and
Similar technologies usually require the consent of the user.
As a result, providers of telemedia must check whether there is a need for adjustment
among other things, on their websites or apps.”
 
Most websites and apps use technologies such as cookies to
Store and manage information on users' devices. With that comes
regularly the processing of personal data, at least the IP address of the
users. This often serves not only to track the behavior of users,
but also to create personality profiles for the entire Internet use and
to enrich
 
The legal framework for setting and reading information
Devices are regulated in the European ePrivacy Directive. With the TTDSG, the
After a delay of more than a decade, federal legislators are now passing the specifications of the
ePrivacy Directive implemented into national law. The subsequent processing of the so
The personal data collected is in turn based on the requirements of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Who Cookies and Similar Technologies
used, must therefore generally observe both laws.
 
Operators of websites and other telemedia generally need one
Consent of the users if they store information on the end device or
want to access it. In exceptional cases, consent is not required if the
Storage of and access to information in the end devices is absolutely necessary
are, so that a telemedia service expressly requested by the user can be
can be made available. This is the case, for example, with a cookie that
is used to store items from an online shop in a shopping cart.
 
In order to assist those responsible in the implementation of the new requirements, develop
the German data protection supervisory authorities are currently providing guidance. This should
to be released early next year.

 
Responsible: Simon Rebiger

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   