

Bonn/Berlin, August 22, 2019


Press release 21/2019


  On the death of Giovanni Buttarelli
It is with great regret that the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has heard the news of the death of the European Data Protection Commissioner Giovanni Buttarelli.

Ulrich Kelber: Above all, I would like to express my deepest condolences to the Buttarelli family and wish them a lot of strength for the time ahead. With Giovanni Buttarelli, European data protection not only loses one of its most important and weighty voices, but above all also a great person who will be greatly missed. I am glad to have had the opportunity to exchange ideas with Giovanni both within the framework of the European Data Protection Board and on various occasions bilaterally. The devoted way in which he was committed to the issues of data protection and the protection of fundamental rights shows how important his work was to him. We will honor his memory and, as European data protection supervisory authorities, will continue to work together to implement and implement the General Data Protection Regulation to protect European citizens.
After 12 years as Secretary General of the Italian Data Protection Authority, Buttarelli held the post of Deputy European Data Protection Supervisor from 2009 and, since 2014, that of European Data Protection Supervisor. Important developments in data protection law occurred during his tenure, such as the adoption and entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation or the start of the work of the European Data Protection Board, of which he was a member.
In his function, Buttarelli has always advocated a strong pan-European image of data protection supervision, especially towards the large global technology companies. Just a few weeks ago, at a joint event with the BfDI in Brussels, he emphasized how important it is to establish the high level of data protection guaranteed by the GDPR as a global benchmark for the development of new technologies.
Giovanni Buttarelli died on August 20 surrounded by his family in Italy.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











