

Bonn/Berlin, October 13, 2020


Press release 25/2020


BfDI starts with its own social media channel
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) is now using the Mastodon microblogging service as part of its press and public relations work. Interested users of Mastodon can follow the contributions of the BfDI at @bfdi@social.bund.de.

The BfDI, Professor Ulrich Kelber, is looking forward to the new opportunity to exchange ideas: The population's awareness of the protection of their privacy has increased again in recent years. Nevertheless, very few want to do without the possibilities of digital communication. And that's a good thing, because the public discussion, which is also largely conducted on social media these days, is important for our free democracy. With our presence on the decentralized Mastodon platform, we want to show that the balancing act of data protection-compliant use of social networks can very well succeed: social media and data protection - that works!
In order to enable data protection-compliant use of the short message service, the BfDI operates its account on the self-hosted mastodon instance social.bund.de. In the medium term, he also wants to open these to other accounts from other federal authorities. However, the instance is not available to private users.
Background information on Mastodon
As a microblogging service, Mastodon is a counterpart to the well-known social network Twitter. Users can publish telegram-like short messages here. These messages are called "Toots" or "Tröts" in German and can be 500 characters long. Unlike Twitter, where all users communicate on a common platform, Mastodon has many individual, networked instances that are operated by private individuals or other bodies under their own responsibility. Each instance can regulate the data processing that takes place on its own responsibility.
The Federal Commissioner, Prof. Kelber, has been running a private mastodon account @ulrichkelber@bonn.social since 2019, on which he also comments on data protection issues, among other things.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











