1

Secretariat Directorate  
Postal Address: Kifisias 1-3, 115 23 Athens  
Phone: 210-6475600  
E-mail: contact@dpa.gr  

PUBLICATION  

Athens, 02-08-2024  
Protocol No.: G/EX/2091  

THE PRESIDENT  
OF THE PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION AUTHORITY  

Having regard to:  
A. The provisions:  
1. of Article 18 of Law 4624/2019 "Personal Data Protection Authority, measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, etc." (Government Gazette 137/A'/29-8-2019).  
2. of Article 30 paragraph 1 of Law 3528/2007 "Ratification of the Code of Status for Public Political Administrative Employees and Employees of Public Law Entities" (Government Gazette 26/A'/09-02-2007).  
3. of Article 27 paragraph 1 of Presidential Decree 30/2024 "Organization of the Personal Data Protection Authority" (Government Gazette 89/A'/13-06-2024).  
B. The protocol number G/EX/2071/01-08-2024 Decision on the classification of the personnel of the Authority in the positions provided by the Organization.  
C. The email dated 01-07-2024 with the subject "Declaration of preference for placement in an organizational unit" and the submitted preference declarations.  
D. The need to place the serving employees in the respective organizational units of the Secretariat and to assign parallel duties to a certain number of auditors, in cases deemed necessary for the effective operation of the Authority, until the filling of the provided organizational positions.  

WE DECIDE  
To place the serving employees of the Secretariat in the organizational units provided by the Authority's Organization, as specifically mentioned below:  

2  

A. GENERAL SECRETARIAT DIRECTORATE  
Vasileios Zorkadis, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade A' - Head of General Secretariat Directorate.  
1. Supervisory Project Directorate  
Georgios Rousopoulos, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade A' - Head of Directorate.  
1.1. Advisory - Consulting Project and Compliance Means Department  
Euphrosyni Siougla, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade A' - Head of Department.  
Maria Alikakou, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade A'.  
Charikleia Latsiou, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade A', with parallel assignment of duties, secondarily to the Studies and Research Department.  
Aikaterini Chatzidiakou, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade C', with parallel assignment of duties, secondarily to the Complaints Department A'.  
1.2. Complaints Department A'  
Kalliopi Karveli, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade A' - Head of Department.  
Eleni Maragkou, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade A', with parallel assignment of duties, secondarily to the Audits and Security Department.  
Kyriaki Karakasi, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade C'.  
Pantelis Kammás, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade B'.  
Eleni Kapralou, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade C', with parallel assignment of duties, secondarily to the Advisory - Consulting Project and Compliance Means Department.  
Anastasia Tritaki, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade C'.  
1.3. Complaints Department B'  
Eumorfia - Iosifina Tsakiridou, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade A' - Head of Department.  
Vasiliki Myloná, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade C'.  
Stefania Plota, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade C'.  
Charis Symeonidou, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade C'.  

3  

Alexandra Michota, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade B'.  
Anastasia Kaniklidou, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade C'.  
Panagiotis Tsopelas, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade B', with parallel assignment of duties, secondarily to the Audits and Security Department.  
1.4. Studies and Research Department  
Konstantinos Limniotis, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade A' - Head of Department.  
Spyridon Papastergiou, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade B', with parallel assignment of duties, secondarily to the Complaints Department B'.  
1.5. Audits and Security Department  
Georgia Panagopoulou, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade A' - Head of Department.  
Ioannis Lykotrafitis, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade A'.  
Foteini Karvela, Special Scientist in the field of Law with grade A'.  
Leonidas Roussos, Special Scientist in the field of Informatics with grade A'.  
2. Administrative - Financial Affairs and Informatics Directorate  
Maria Kokkinaki, employee of the Administrative - Financial sector/specialty, with grade A' - Head of Directorate.  
2.1. Administrative Affairs and Secretariat Support Department  
Aimilia Chrysovelidi, employee of the Administrative - Financial sector/specialty with grade A' - Head of Department.  
Vasiliki Psarrou, employee of the Administrative - Financial sector/specialty with grade A'.  
Georgia Palaiologou, employee of the Administrative - Accounting sector/specialty with grade A'.  
Eirini Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Administrative - Accounting sector/specialty with grade A'.  
Antonios Makkas, employee of the Administrative - Accounting sector/specialty with grade A'.  
Evangelia Zervou, employee of the Administrative - Accounting sector/specialty with grade B'.
4

Veronica Belissario, employee of the Administrative - Accounting sector, grade D.  
Simeon Petrou, employee of the Drivers sector, grade A.  
Ioannis Samios, employee of the Drivers sector, grade A.  
Andreas Papadopoulos, employee of the Telephone Operators sector, grade A.  
Spyridoula Avgerinopoulou, employee of the Cleaning sector, specialization in Internal Cleaning, grade B.  
Smargda Printezi-Kanelou, employee of the Cleaning sector, specialization in Internal Cleaning, grade B.  

2.2. Department of Financial Services  
Maria Kokkinaki, employee of the Administrative - Economic sector, grade A - Head of Department.  
Eleni Patsoura, employee of the Administrative - Economic sector, grade A.  
Konstantinos Kafiris, employee of the Administrative - Accounting sector, grade A.  
Fotini Papaliosa, employee of the Administrative - Accounting sector, grade A.  

2.3. Department of Information Technology and Infrastructure  
Konstantinos Aydinis, employee of the Information Technology sector, specialization in Information Technology (HARDWARE - SOFTWARE), grade A - Head of Department.  
Ioannis Ballos, employee of the Information Technology sector, specialization in Information Technology (HARDWARE - SOFTWARE), grade A.  

3. Independent Department of Communication and Public Relations  
Ilias Athanasiadis, Specialist Scientist in Communication, grade A - Head of Department.  
Amalia Logiaki, Specialist Scientist in Communication, grade A.  

THE PRESIDENT  

KONSTANTINOS MENOUDAKOS  

5  

Internal distribution:  
1. Interested parties  
2. Members of the Authority