 
 
 
 
 
 
 
711.388.1

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

May 31, 2018

The new Berlin Data Protection Act – a missed opportunity

 
 
Today, Thursday, the Berlin House of Representatives has the new Berliner
Data Protection Act passed. The Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and
Freedom of information, Maja Smoltczyk, regrets that with this law the rights of
Those affected and the powers of the data protection supervisory authority are significantly restricted.
 
The law does not provide for the possibility for the data protection supervisory authority, nor for fines
to impose on public bodies that do not participate in the competition. this leads to
to an unjustifiable privileging of public versus private bodies. About it
In addition, according to the will of the legislature, the supervisory authority also has no power
enforce formal orders against public authorities if
these are not followed. In the field of law enforcement and correctional authorities,
like police and prosecutors, the new law sees even a simple one
Right of objection for the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
instead of effective powers to issue orders. This contradicts European law
Specifications that are also effective for this sensitive public area
provide funds.
 
Berliners also have the information and information rights of citizens
Legislators are significantly restricted, contrary to European regulations. That's how it looks
For example, the law stipulates that those affected already have the right to information from the authorities
can be restricted if this leads to the prosecution of administrative offences,
such as illegal parking, would be at risk. This is contrary to European law, since the European
Regulation provides for a restriction of information rights only in the case of serious risks,
such as B. in the prosecution of criminal offenses or threats to national security.
 
In addition, the legislature has decided to remove entire areas of the Berlin administration from
exempt from an independent data protection control. This applies e.g. B. for the
Data processing at the Court of Auditors. Since at the same time the information rights of those affected
be completely excluded from the Court of Auditors, there are none
Control authority for data processing there. Such a privilege does not enjoy
once the Federal Court of Auditors.
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
“Effective data protection in the public sector is significantly restricted with this law.
The fundamental rights of the people must not only face the big Internet corporations
be effectively protected. State institutions also process a large number, sometimes very
sensitive personal data. In connection with the denied
We have impressive accreditations for journalists at the G20 summit

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 0
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 



- 2 -

seen the consequences of incorrect handling of such data not only for
individuals, but also for our democracy.
 
Sweeping your own door requires openness and courage. That's what this one is all about
Legislative process lacking. Instead, politicians in Berlin decided a lot
to leave things as they are and the Berlin administration of some European obligations
to keep free. An opportunity was missed. It sends the wrong signal to the citizens
and citizens whose fundamental right to data protection has been severely restricted, and the many
Companies and associations of this city, ready to face the great challenge of the new
Set data protection rules conscientiously."
 
 
 
 
 
background
The Berlin Data Protection Act specifies and supplements the regulations of the data protection
Basic regulation for Berlin authorities and other public bodies in the state of Berlin.
 
With the law to adapt the Berlin Data Protection Act and other laws
the General Data Protection Regulation ((EU) 2016/679) and implementing the Directive ((EU)
2016/680) on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
by the competent authorities for the purpose of prevention, investigation, detection or
Prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of sentences (Berlin Data Protection Adaptation
and EU Implementation Act - BlnDSanpUG-EU) became the previous Berliner
Data Protection Act and other laws recast with the aim of meeting the requirements for the
to implement the European General Data Protection Regulation and the so-called JI Directive.
 
 
 
 
 

 

