 

 

 
 
652.302.4
 

speech of

 

Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information

on the new Berlin Data Protection Act

on May 31, 2018 in the plenum of the Berlin House of Representatives

 

 

 
Dear Mr President,
Ladies and gentlemen,
 
thank you very much for being here today for the Berlin data protection
Adaptation and Implementation Act can comment.
 
Since last Friday, the General Data Protection Regulation has been
applicable law throughout Europe. The previous patchwork quilt in the
data protection law is to be brought to an end. This is a real
epochal step.
 
In doing so, the European legislator has done exactly what many
been missed for years: he bravely, with great steadfastness
activity and against vehement pressure from lobbyists for strengthening
of a fundamental civil right. With that he has one
sent a powerful signal that the European Union more
than a pure economic community, namely also a
community with shared ethical beliefs. citizen
ers and citizens should not be defenseless against the global spread
be at the mercy of digitization, so the rights of people should
in Europe and the associated European
authorities to be significantly strengthened. This bold step is
incidentally, to a large extent to the European Parliament
owe!
 
It is a pity that the Berlin legislature took this bold step
not taken up, but joined the ranks of those
has, through small-scale special regulations and overstretching
of opening clauses ultimately the goal of European harmonization
torpedo.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance:
Puttkamer Str. 16-18
 
Telephone: (030) 13889-0
Fax: (030) 215 50 50
mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
office hours
 
daily 10 a.m. - 3 p.m., Thurs. 10 a.m. - 6 p.m
(or by appointment)
 
reachability
 
U6: Kochstr.
Bus: M29, 248
 
Internet
 
https://datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 



- 2 -

 
What a chance it would have been for the German capital
countries to take the lead in defending the rights of citizens
want to strengthen citizens who see data protection as a necessary
comprehending digitalization, not as its competitor
renz. What a powerful sign could have been made
the smart city that Berlin wants to become, in a comprehensive sense
ne including the best possible protection of privacy
to understand citizens.
 
Instead, the law contains profound restrictions on the
Human rights, which are also not covered by compensation schemes
be balanced, as required by the General Data Protection Regulation
sees. My repeated references to the violation of European law
Unfortunately, a number of regulations were
not taken into account in essential points.
 
Let me illustrate this with a few examples:
 
1. The information and information rights of citizens
this law in contradiction to the European
ical provisions cut at essential points. Out of-
future rights should e.g. B. not only be restricted
may, if through the provision of information the prosecution of
Criminal offenses or the security of the country would be jeopardized as it is
stipulate the European regulations. Rather, the
refusal of future even with comparatively insignificant
Fine proceedings may be permissible, such as for stopping in
no parking – Restricting a fundamental right in favor of prosecution
of administrative offenses? – That has to do with the specifications of
nothing more to do with European regulations!
 

2. Certain decisions about an information
refusal not even by the independent data protection
be verifiable by supervision, namely whenever individual
Senate members refuse to provide information on the grounds that
that a potential threat to federal security or
of countries exist. In these cases, those affected will not
have any possibility, themselves or at least on behalf of others
to be checked by the data protection supervisory authority whether and
for which purposes your data is processed and whether this
done lawfully.
 

3. Yes, even more: Whole areas are governed by the law of

subject to an independent data protection control

 



- 3 -

such as data processing at the Court of Auditors.
Even the information rights of those affected against the
Court of Auditors are completely excluded; so there is
no longer any control authority for the data processing there
and legal recourse is also closed to those affected. One
there is no such privilege for the Federal Court of Auditors
nor for the majority of the state audit offices and
is contrary to European law in this form.
 
When it comes to the question of what powers we have as the supreme, independent
are granted by the state authority, it is about securing
a fundamental right. And there is no need to fear
that the supervisory authority exceeds its powers, because
Of course, every decision of my authority is at any time
reviewable by the courts. This is how our rule of law sees it
before.
 
It is therefore extremely unfortunate that the law
authorities only very limited sanctions and remedial
transfers authority in the public domain.
 
It strikes me as a fatal signal to the citizens
to be that of all things with the restriction of those affected
rights – the foundation of informational self-determination
tion – the limits set by the European legislator
has to be clearly exceeded.
 

4. In the field of European directives applicable to the police and judiciary
applies, are not effective, contrary to the European specifications
Powers planned for my agency. In the European
Measures are listed in the guideline which improve the level for conceivable
impose bare powers. The Berlin legislature is taking
this law does not mention any of that. And that, although how
said, every measure of data protection supervision judicial
is verifiable!
 

5. A regulation is also incompatible with European law
to the so-called data protection impact assessment, which is always
must be supplied if data processing involves high risks for specific
affected people exist. According to the planned Berlin
Despite all security measures, a
Risky data processing under certain circumstances
which may already be permitted before the required examination has expired,
although the European regulation expressly does not
sees. With this one accepts with one's eyes that such

 



- 4 -

real risks, although the procedures are highly probable
are unlikely to be allowed. And we all know that
In our digitized world, data once collected is hardly
the catch.
 

Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about peanuts and
not only opposed to the protection of basic human rights
the big internet companies.

 

State institutions also process a large number, sometimes very
sensitive personal data. And also in this area is
incorrect handling of data not only poses a risk to
individually, but for our society as a whole. Just think
to the incidents of denied accreditations of journalists
and journalists at the G20 summit, who expressed this in impressive
se have shown. It should not be forgotten that a
essential motor for the adoption of the data protection
Basic regulation just the one uncovered by Edward Snowden
Data abuse by public authorities was.
 
As I said, it could have been a powerful sign.
 
Sweeping your own door requires openness and courage. I
long that no more protection of fundamental rights should be dared. That
The law discussed here today is stuck in the past. The-
very modern and progressive city – the Berliners
- would have deserved better.
 
Thanks very much!
 

 

