 

 
 
 

Press Release Elections II.

Information obligations for parties, among others

in the case of personally addressed election advertising

connection with the state elections

Erfurt, March 14, 2019

If parties or groups of voters from a registration authority in connection with
Elections and voting at state and local levels in permissible
Wise, i.e. if no transmission objection from the citizens
is available at the registration authority (PM of the TLfDI from 06.02.2019), information from the
Received population registers about the data of persons entitled to vote, these data may be used for
be used for election advertising purposes. But also other sources of information
(e.g. address dealers) may be used by the parties to collect data for the
Used to send election advertising. It is therefore often not the case for those affected
comprehensible where the relevant party got the address from.
The TLfDI informs about this:
The parties have an obligation to protect the data subjects, their personal data
are collected for election advertising, according to Art. 14 DS-GVO
inform! This obligation serves to ensure sufficient transparency if the
Address data is not collected from the person concerned, but from third parties
have been. There is no exception for the parties to this obligation.
As bodies organized under private law, parties are subject to the provisions of the DS-
GMO. The information obligation includes, among other things, information on the person responsible
and to the data protection officer, to the processing purposes and to the
Legal bases, to the categories of personal data, if necessary to the
Recipients of the data, the storage period, the rights of those affected and above all
to the source of the data.
According to Art. 13 DS-GVO, the obligation to provide information also exists in cases in which
the data is collected by the parties directly from the data subject.
 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

Office building: Hässlerstrasse 8

Postal address:
 
 
Mail*:
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

 
poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
 

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 
 

Telephone: 0361 57-3112900
Fax: 0361 57-3112904
E

Internet: www.tlfdi.de

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 

 

 

