 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Checklist for conducting video conferencing during
the contact restrictions

 

For conducting data protection-compliant virtual conferences
we recommend companies, government agencies and other organizations, such as
follows to proceed. Check it,

1. Whether telephone conferences are sufficient instead of video conferences
in order to achieve the desired coordination among
to bring. These can be much more easily privacy compliant
be performed.

2. whether it is possible for you with reasonable effort to

Generic service in source code with publicly available (open source)
or commercially available software. Make sure
making sure that the software used does not contain any data about your
Employees or their communication partners to the
transmitted to the manufacturer for his own purposes or for the purposes of third parties.

3. whether one of the solutions of a provider with headquarters and processing

location, in particular server location, in the European Economic
region (EEA) or from a country with equivalent data protection
level (https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-
protection/international-dimension-data-protection/adequacy-decisi-
ons_en) suits your needs.

Also check whether the provider

a) it can be expected that he will only use the data within the permissible framework
processed and in particular not contrary to European
Data protection law to third parties - including foreign authorities
hear – pass on,

b) adequate data security (e.g. through certification

tion) can prove and

c) guarantees you the encryption of the data transmission.

If the test is positive, then

d) close a proper order processing

contract with the provider,

and make sure the operator

e) No information about your employees and their communications

cation or using the software for your own purposes
cke or purposes of third parties processed as well

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin
Visitor entrance:
Puttkamer Str. 16-18
 
Telephone: (030) 13889-0
Fax: (030) 215 50 50
mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
office hours
 
daily 10 a.m. - 3 p.m., Thurs. 10 a.m. - 6 p.m
(or by appointment)
 
reachability
 
U6: Kochstr.
Bus: M29, 248
 
Internet
 
https://datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

- 2 -

f) Subcontractors with processing location, in particular

Server location, outside the EU/EEA for the provision
provision of the video conferencing service only if the
data export the requirements of Chapter V of the data
basic protection regulation fulfilled.

Please note that the decision of the EU Commission to
Equivalence of the level of data protection in the USA
finally extends to organizations that are self-certified
at the US Department of Commerce for compliance with the principles
have committed to the provisions of the Privacy Shield. Certification must
also extend to personnel data (HR). You check this
by inspecting the US Department of Commerce list at
https://www.privacyshield.gov/list.

4. If you use a provider with a processing location outside of

EU/EEA or a country with an equivalent level of data protection
or a non-Privacy Shield for processing
authorized providers in the USA for the processing of
If you want to meet the conditions under Section 3. a) – c)
and e) and conclude with him to fulfill the condition in clause 3.
d) a contract in accordance with those approved by the EU Commission
Standard Contractual Clauses (https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32010D0087). A restriction
effect of these clauses through other agreements
gene is not allowed. This applies to any kind of additional conditions
Conditions and restrictions for the obligations and rights from the
Standard Contractual Clauses.

Fulfillment of Sections 3. a) to 3. f) and, if applicable, Section 4 or, in the case of this, automatically
operated solutions, clause 2 sentence 2 is usually a mandatory prerequisite
for the legality of the use of the respective solution.

We would like to point out that some widely used providers for re-
deadline (July 3, 2020) did not meet all legality requirements
fulfil, including Blizz, Cisco WebEx, Cisco WebEx over Tele-
kom, Google Meet, GoToMeeting, Microsoft Teams, Skype, Skype for Business
ness online and zoom. With NETWAYS Web Services Jitsi, secure-video-
konferenz.de, TixeoCloud, Werk21 BigBlueButton and Wire are all
However, alternatives are available that meet the data protection requirements
to fill.

For a detailed assessment, we refer to our "Notes for
liner responsible for providers of video conferencing services", the regular
moderately updated and the data available at https://www.datenschutz-ber-
lin.de/infothek-und-service/themen-a-bis-z/corona-pandemic.html
are. If the provider you are considering is not in this
be included in the list, to facilitate your check, you will find
website also referred to our “Recommendations for Auditing
contract processing contracts from providers of video conferencing services",
the certain frequently observed deficiencies in order processing
contracts.

Non-privacy-compliant solutions that result from the introduction of the
contact restrictions were implemented by your institution at short notice,
should be replaced or improved as soon as possible so that
they comply with data protection requirements.

(Version 1.4 of July 3, 2020)

