1/47

 Procedure No.: PS/00467/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00467/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity, entity PRA IBERIA, S.L. with CIF.: B80568769, (in
hereinafter, "the entity claimed), for alleged infringement of Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the Protection
of Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the
Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD); Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights, (LOPDGDD) and in
based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST On 08/07/19, he had entry to this Agency in writing, submitted by
Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, "the complaining party"), among others, the following:

“PRA IBERIA, is claiming a debt from me for a contract that I am not aware of. Until
the year 2013 third parties have been making bank transfers to my
Name. I have requested in writing, by telephone and certified mail to PRA IBERIA
information about this incident, but to date, I have not received a response by
no way, and they keep claiming the debt with interest.“

The following documentation was provided to the written claim:

- Copy of letter dated 06/12/19 addressed to the claimant and sent by PRA
IBERIA, S.L. where the debt that it maintains with them is reported as
consequence of the acquisition of a debtor portfolio from
SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE. The letter states that the date of
assignment was 04/30/08, and that the date of the first default was 02/01/06.

- Letter dated 06/24/19 sent by the claimant to PRA IBERIA SL, where
The right of access to the documentation held by the entity was requested.
her, in relation to the alleged debt. Certificate of delivery is provided.

SECOND: On 09/17/19, this Agency sent a request
information to the entity PRA IBERICA, SL. and the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER
FINANCE, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the protection of personal data and guarantee of the rights
digital data, (“LOPDGDD”).

THIRD: On 10/09/19, the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE, S.A.
send this Agency the following information:

- That the existence of a contractual relationship with the
claimant relating to a credit card marketed jointly with
GAS NATURAL FENOSA, which was marketed by telephone on the day
04/10/2000.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/47

- A copy of the: "XXXXXXX CARD REQUEST", dated
04/10/2000, where the details of the claimant and her address are stated, but without
claimant's signature. In the direct debit data, the entity appears
“XXXX C.A. FROM MADRID and account number: ****XXXX” crossed out by hand and
overwritten in handwritten text the number “XXXX” as the text: “CTA
WRONG”.

- Printing of existing data in the entity's database is provided
SANTANDER CONSUMER, of the “XXXX-UNION FENOSA CARD”, where
The identification of the claimant is recorded. In the address data
bank, there is an account number of the bank, IBERCAJA:
****XXXX). In the section of origin of the account, it is indicated “Captura
phone”.

- Printing of the charges on the credit card made from

09/09/2002 (card activation date), until 12/13/2004.

-

The entity certifies that the credit card receipts were returned
credit for the months of February to December of the year 2006, for an amount
Total face value of 452.59 euros.

- Indicates that they sold the non-payment portfolio, dated 04/30/08, to the company
AKTIV KAPITAL INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO A.G. fiscally represented in
Spain by PRA IBERIA SL, whose former name was: TREYM
CONSULTING AND SERVICES TO COMPANIES, S.L.U.

- Indicates that the claimant was informed of the transfer of credits mentioned
in the previous point, on 05/28/08. A copy of the letter is provided where it is communicated
the transfer of credit to AKTIV CAPITAL INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO A.G.

- It indicates that, "given the age of the file, the remaining documentation
relating to the claimant could not be located, since the
Claims derived from it are, to date, prescribed.

FOURTH: On 10/17/19, PRA IBERIA, S.L.U. sends this Agency the following
information and demonstrations:

- A copy of the letter dated 05/28/08 addressed to the claimant at the
address indicated in the credit card application document, where
the purchase of the credit portfolio by the entity AKTIV is reported
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO A.G. to the entity SANTANDER
CONSUMER FINANCE as well as the information and personal data with the
due credit and the possibility of contacting the entity TREYM CONSULTING AND

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/47

SERVICES TO COMPANIES, S.L.U. for the access, cancellation or opposition of
said data.

- They provide a copy of the certificate signed by a notary public stating: “[…] the
01/12/18 the GLOBAL TRANSFER OF ASSETS AND
LIABILITIES of the portfolios acquired in Spain by the company "AKTIV
KAPITAL PORTFOLIO AS, OSLO, BRANCH IN ZUG", broadcasting in
block all the portfolios acquired in Spain by universal succession of the
first entity in favor of "PRA IBERIA, S.L UNIPERSONAL", equity in
which includes, among others, the portfolio acquired by virtue of the deed of
ASSIGNMENT OF CREDIT indicated below and therefore the debt that
the corresponding to the claimant is hereby certified for the total amount
of XXX €.

- They provide a copy of the letter addressed to the claimant at the address indicated in the
card application sent by the entity PRA IBERIA, S.L.U., dated
01/21/15, where they state the acquisition of all the assets and
liabilities of AKTIV KAPITAL, through the global transfer of AKTIV's business
KAPITAL and as a consequence of the credit subscribed with in its day by Santander
Consumer.

- They provide a document from the provider of the sending service of requirements of
payment and transfer of credit of PRA IBERIA, S.L.U that certifies the generation and
printing on 02/10/15 of a request for payment in the name of the
claimant at the address indicated on the credit card application and your
made available to the distribution company Unipost, S.A. the day
02/13/15.

- They state that, on 05/17/19, the claimant contacted them,
informing them of a new address where they re-sent the
information.

- They provide screen printing of the data obtained from the contract
that were allegedly provided by the claimant. Bliss
data capture in the systems was printed and signed by a proxy of
Santander Consumer before registering the card.

- They state that: “The claimant contracted with Santander Consumer a credit card
credit from Unión Fenosa by telephone on 10/4/2000. As a result of said
hiring, was sent to the address provided by the claimant, both the
card such as its conditions and the instructions for its activation. So
on 09/09/2002 the claimant activated the card through a payment at a station
of service for €39 and continues to use the card until the entity
assignor writes it off due to non-payment”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/47

- They state that: “Since 05/17/19 they have been in contact with the claimant to
solve your doubts. That is why they understood that it was not necessary to answer
formally to the request for access and that they have sent the complainant a
certified email with the movements of the card and where they clarify their payments”.

- A copy of the MRW Bureaufax is provided with the subject “Answer to claim”
dated 10/17/19, where there is an attached file named
“answer claim_e_08673_20193.pdf”. A copy of the content is provided
of the file, this being a letter addressed to the claimant, dated 10/16/19,
where they inform her, among other aspects, that: - “On September 9, 2002
The credit card was activated in your name. - They received two transfers
whose origin was an account of the assignor Santander Consumer for the
payments made but that cannot indicate the origin of said transfer
because they were not produced directly in their accounts”.

- They provide a certificate from SANTANDER CONSUMER where the charges are stated in

the credit card from the year 2002 to the year 2005.

FIFTH: On 11/21/19, the claimant sent this Agency a second written
reporting the following:

- Send a copy of the documentation received from the PRA IBÉRICA entity, the

10/22/19 in response to the access request sent to them on 06/24/19.

- Complaint that the entity claimed affirms that it made two transfers
to pay the card debt from a third checking account to the
entity SANTANDER CONSUMER, but they do not show that they are made
by her or the account number from which they were made: On 06/16/2008
of €XXX and on 06/28/2011 of €XXX,

- That they send you some bank details from the financial institution IBERCAJA, but

that he appeared in this entity and they told him that there was nothing in his name.

- That they send you information about purchases that you do not know and that you still do not
be able to verify anything, since it is not provided by the bank's contract, nor by the
bills, or transfers that justify that she is the cardholder and
therefore the debtor of what they claim.

SIXTH: On 06/01/20, an information request is sent to the financial entity
IBERCAJA BANCO, to identify the holders and authorized persons of the account
banking ***XXXX, as of October 4, 2000, the changes produced in these
data, and the temporary period in which said account remained open, in the event that
has been closed.

SEVENTH: On 06/16/20, IBERCAJA BANCO, S.A. sends to this Agency the
following information and statements:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/47

-

Account No. ****XXXX remained open from June 29, 2000 until
on December 21, 2001, where it appeared as the only owner in that period,
that is, from June/2000 to 12/21/01, the claimant.

EIGHTH: On 06/18/20, PRA IBERIA, S.L.U. sends this Agency the following
information and manifestations, requirement of this Agency:

- That the stipulations that regulated the assignment of the debt between
SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE and AKTIV CAPITAL, today PRA IBERIA;
S.L.U. They provide a document of "PUBLIC RAISING OF THE CONTRACT OF
ASSIGNMENT OF CREDITS” of the Notary Mr. ALBERTO BRAVO OLACIREGUI
dated 04/30/2008 where it appears: - SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE,
S.A., among others, as assignor. - AKTIV CAPITAL PORTFOLIO
INVESTMENTS, A.G. as assignee, being its tax representative is
TREYM CONSULTING AND SERVICES TO COMPANIES; SL – […] for which the
ASSIGNORS sell and transfer to the ASSIGNEE, who buys and acquires, the
LOAN PORTFOLIO, as defined in Exhibit II of the aforementioned
Contract.[…]"

- They provide a copy of the contract copy of the stipulations that regulated the assignment
of the debt between Santander Consumer Finance and Aktiv capital, today PRA
IBERIA S.L.U., signed and dated 04/30/2008 where it is stated, among others, what
Next:

“[…] V. That the volume of the Loan Portfolio, the heterogeneity of the
Credits that make it up and, in many cases, their age and/or their
origin of any of the credit entities merged with the
Assignors make it impossible for them to guarantee that the Credit Data
always be complete or correct. In particular, the Sellers do not rule out
that some of the Loans that appear in the Loan Portfolio are not in
actually existing credits or legally enforceable by the Sellers or not
are transmissible, so all of them must be considered at all
effects such as doubtful credits. For the same reasons, the documentation
Physical information related to the Credits that the Assignors have does not
is not necessarily complete or exhaustive, and there may be no documentation
physical with respect to some of the Credits. The Assignee knows and accepts these
Characteristics of the Credits, the Data of the Credits and the
physical documentation related to the Credits.

[…] VII. That, within the framework of a prior negotiation for the possible
transmission of the Loan Portfolio, the Assignors and the Assignee have
held various meetings in which the Assignee has been able to find out
completely and to your satisfaction about the characteristics of the Portfolio of
Credits, the procedures for registration and conservation of the Credits of the
Assignors, the mechanisms for the collection of the Credits used by the
Sellers,[…] […]

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/47

1 .2. Exclusion of liability of the Sellers: The Parties acknowledge that
the object of the Contract is the purchase and sale of the Loan Portfolio in its
globally, without individualized consideration of each of the Credits that
compose it and that are transferred. Additionally, after meetings between the
Parties and the due diligence process carried out by the Assignee, the Assignee knows and
accepts that the Assignors do not guarantee that the Data of the Credits are
complete and accurate, and that some of the Credits may not exist for
any cause (including prior payment), not be legally enforceable by the
Sellers or have their transferability restricted. Therefore, all and each
one of the Credits that the Assignee acquires are sold as doubtful
in accordance with the provisions of art. 1529 of the Civil Code, acquiring the
Assignee of the Loan Portfolio at its entire risk (...)”.

NINTH: On 01/18/21, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed entity, by virtue of
the established powers, for failing to comply with the provisions of articles 6.1) of the RGPD,
regarding the illicit treatment of the personal data of the claimant and for infringement
tion of article 15 of the RGPD, regarding the lack of diligence in facilitating the
access to information on the personal data of the claimant with a sanction
total of 60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros), 30,000 euros for the infringement of article
6.1 and 30,000 euros for the infringement of article 15 of the RGPD.

TENTH
 
dated 02/01/21, made, in summary, the following allegations:

 : Notification of the start agreement to the claimed entity, the latter in writing

1.- Expiration of previous actions.

The previous actions on which this sanctioning procedure is based
have expired as provided in article 67.2 of the LOPDGDD.

In this sense, it indicates the second fact of the agreement to start the sanctioning procedure.
tioner that: “In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out actions for its clarification, under the protection of the powers of in-
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the RGPD. So with
date 09/17/19, information requests are directed to the entity PRA IBERICA, SL.
and to the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE.”

In its article 67 LOPDGDD, it indicates in section 2 that: “2. The previous performances
investigation shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2 of Chapter I of Title
VII of this organic law and may not have a duration of more than twelve months
from the date of the agreement for admission to processing or the date of the agreement by the
that its initiation be decided when the Spanish Agency for Data Protection acts
on its own initiative or as a consequence of the communication that would have been
issued by the supervisory authority of another Member State of the European Union,
conform to article 64.3 of this organic law.”

Although the specific date of the agreement for admission to processing of the actions is unknown,
previous research situations, and for which we must wait to know the experience
complete tooth of this procedure, which we can affirm emphatically,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/47

the view of the second fact of this initial agreement is that said agreement took place
prior to 09/17/2019, since it is on this date that the first
following actions after the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection, in
depending on the powers granted by law, the beginning of the same is agreed upon.

However, in the Resolution of the procedure No.: PS/00418/2019, as the only reference
found on the criteria of the Agency itself regarding the start of the computation
of the term of the previous performances of the inspection of article 67.2 LOPDGDD,
establishes that: "This admission for processing was agreed upon, which was notified to the claimants-
tes, and not to IZENPE, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.5 of the LOPDGDD,
initiated previous investigation actions indicated with the number E/00995/2019.

Within the framework of these actions, on 02/04/2019, the inspection services
of this Agency sent IZENPE a request for information, which includes di-
reference number and it is expressly indicated that said request is made
“Within the framework of the actions carried out by the General Subdirectorate of Ins-
data collection in order to clarify the terms of some facts that may be
possible infringement of current Data Protection regulations and of which you have had
knowledge of this Spanish Agency for Data Protection” and in use of the fa-
culties conferred by article 58.1 of the RGPD and article 67 of the LOPDGDD.”

The expiration of the previous actions was already included in article 122.4 of the Real
Decree 1720/2007, of December 21, which approves the Regulation of de-
Development of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, on data protection of
personal character (RDLOPD) establishing that the computation of the beginning or "dies ad quo"
from the date of filing the complaint.

The wording of said article is very clarifying for interpretive purposes, since it
clearly ends the moment in which the admission agreement must be determined
processing of the preliminary investigation actions, which is none other than the beginning of the
inspection actions through the powers established by law: “4. These
Previous actions will have a maximum duration of twelve months from the
date on which the complaint or reasoned request referred to in section 2 hu-
should have entered the Spanish Agency for Data Protection or, if not
exist, since the Director of the Agency agreed to carry out said
performances. The expiration of the term without an agreement having been issued and notified
initiation of the sanctioning procedure will produce the expiration of the preliminary actions
ways.”

Said article reflects the importance of the expiration of previous actions as
response to the adequacy of the administrative principles and especially to article
42.2 of Law 30/1992, of November 26, on the Legal Regime of the Administrations
Public and Common Administrative Procedure (LRJPAC) and because if not
If this limit did not exist, the inspection actions could not be prolonged in such a way
that would violate the principle of legal certainty that our Constitution proclaims.
This criterion is reflected in different jurisprudence, among which the following stand out:
Due to its clarity, we appreciate the Judgment of the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court number 2696/2006 of October 17, 2007 (Recourse No.
180/2006), (…).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/47

We consider for all these reasons, and according to what has been reasoned up to now, that the
plaintiff insofar as there has been a fraudulent use of the institution of
the preliminary proceedings. Consequently, we are faced with a case of fraud of
Law contemplated in article 6.4 of the Civil Code, since it is intended to circumvent the
application of article 42.2 of Law 30/1992 using the request for information to,
with it, avoid the expiration of the sanctioning file.”

We will say that it is not possible to claim that the actions come from the new number of
inspection, which occurs on the same case, this is inspection E/01924/2020,
of June 1, 2020 (follow-up to inspection E/08673/2019, of October 2019), and
which was answered by this party dated 06/18/2020, which contains a single
ca request: “Copy of the stipulations that regulated the assignment of the debt between
Santander Consumer Finance and Aktiv capital, today PRA IBERIA S.L.U."

Although the existence of the assignment of the claimant's credit and its details (date of
the transfer, intervening Notary, amount of the debt, etc.) is known by the Agency at the
us from receipt of the claimant's waiver. In this sense, in the agreement
initiation of the sanctioning procedure is indicated:

1) First Event: “Dated 08/07/19, you have entered this Agency, a pre-
sitting by the claimant in which she indicated, among others, the following: (...)

2) Event Three: “On 10/09/19, the entity, SANTANDER CONSUMER FI-
NANCE, S.A. sends this Agency the following information and statements: (...)

3) Fact four: “On 10/17/19, PRA IBERIA, S.L.U. sends to this Agency the following
following information and statements: (...)

The period of time in which the Agency investigates new indi- vidual facts is noteworthy.
claimed by the claimant, specifically the current account that appears in the contract.
Specifically, the complainant informs the Agency on 11/21/19 that Ibercaja has not
given information, but the Agency does not send any type of information to said entity
until June 2020, that is, 7 months after knowing this new information.
mation by the claimant, also taking into account that the actions
of inspection go back, as we have commented previously, at least since
on 09/17/19.

Even considering that said new information would have been sufficient to initiate
a new investigation, the Agency would have had 3 months from when they learned
to have acted against my principal, if he had considered it so, as indicated in the
Agency itself in Resolution PS/00418/19 cited above: “(…) the decision on
the admission or non-admission for processing must be notified to the claimant within three
months since the claim was received by the Agency…”. These 3 months ha-
would have ended on 02/21/20, although it should be noted that it is not a new information.
investigation but the continuation of the actions that were initiated before the
09/17/19

Thus, it is relevant to highlight the following facts of the initial agreement:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/47

“FIFTH: On 11/21/19, the claimant sends this Agency the following information:
information and demonstrations: (...) - That they send you some bank details from IBERCAJA
but that was personified.”

SIXTH: On 06/16/20, IBERCAJA BANCO, S.A. sends to this Agency the following
following information and statements, at the request of this Agency: (...).

SEVENTH: On 06/18/20, PRA IBERIA, S.L.U. sends this Agency the following
information and manifestations, requirement of this Agency: (...)

Thus, the complete or necessary information, in the opinion of the Agency, to complete the actions
inspection procedures, obtains them on 06/18/2020, as indicated in the foundation of
seventh right and it is not until 01/18/2021 where this party is notified of this
agreement.

Taking into account the interruption of the prescription and expiration periods due to the
alarm status, that is 81 days, counted from 04/14/2020 to 06/3/20201 or, even
counting them by periods in months, that is 3 months, it turns out that:

1 Administrative deadlines 1.- Suspension of deadlines: Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14
March, Third Additional Provision. Terms are suspended and services are interrupted
deadlines for processing the procedures of public sector entities. The
computation of the terms will be resumed at the moment in which the Real
Decree 463/2020 or, where appropriate, its extensions. Therefore, the deadlines are suspended
pending on 03/14/2020.

2.-Lifting the suspension of deadlines: Article 9 of Royal Decree 537/2020,
of May 22, which extends the state of alarm declared by the Royal Decree
decree 463/2020, of March 14. With effect from June 1, 2020, the computation
of the administrative deadlines that had been suspended will be resumed, or restarted
will be declared, if it had been foreseen in a norm with the force of law approved during the vi-
agency of the state of alarm and its extensions. Administrative deadlines are resumed
will be on June 1, 2020. These deadlines, in general, will be resumed, including
putting therefore the days that would have been exhausted before Royal Decree 463/20,
of March 14.

However, these terms will be restarted, recalculating the full term, if
this would have been foreseen in a norm with the rank of law approved during the term
of the state of alarm and its extensions. Substantive terms: prescription and expiration 1.-
Suspension of prescription and expiration periods: Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14
March, Fourth Additional Provision. The statute of limitations and expiration of
any shares and rights remain

1) Previous performances would expire, regardless of state interruption
alarm, at least on 09/17/20, 1 year after the start of the actions. Without
However, the sanctioning procedure agreement is received 1 year and 4 more months
afternoon.

2) The Agency knows new information on 11/21/2019 provided by the claimant-
te, however, it is not until June 2020 when it completes its inspection activity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/47

The Agency should have resumed the inspection, if it had considered so in a
within 3 months, that is, on 02/21/2020 (and, in any case, before the state decree)
alarm clock), although it is not until June 2020 that he restarts his investigation.

3) The Agency compiles the complete information of its investigation on 06/18/2020, it is
That is, you still have 3 months before the previous actions expire.

4) Taking into account the suspension of the alarm state (From March 14 to December 4,
June) said period could be extended until 12/17/2020, taking into account
even though we count whole months (3 months instead of 81 days), so the
Agency would have had a period of 6 additional months to see notified the
initiation of this agreement to my client.

5) The agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure has been notified, at least 1
month after the expiration of the previous actions occurred, that is, the
01/18/2021, including the periods of suspension of the state of alarm. For the an-
interior, this part understands that the previous actions that give rise to the present
sanctioning procedure have expired due to the expiration of the period established
Based on article 67.2 of the LOPDGDD.

Even understanding this part that the previous actions of this initial agreement
sanctioning procedure have expired, my client will proceed to send
try to assess the facts of the infractions for which my command is held responsible.
te, distinguishing between them, that is, the infringement of article 6.1. of the Rule-
Document (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016,
regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of data
personal and suspended coughs during the period of validity of the state of alarm and,
where appropriate, of the extensions that are adopted.

2.- Lifting of the suspension of the prescription and expiration periods: Article 10
of Royal Decree 537/2020, of May 22, which extends the state of alarm
declared by Royal Decree 463/2020. With effect from June 4, 2020,
will lift the suspension of the statute of limitations and expiration of rights and actions
nes. the free movement of these data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC
-General Data Protection Regulation- (RGPD) and the infringement of article 15
GDPR.

2.- Of the Infringement of article 6.1.RGPD. Of the legality of the treatment.

Of the assignment of credits and the legality of the treatment. From the facts of the present pro-
transfer. Of the diligent performance of my client. From the lack of evidence
due to error in the assessment of the evidence by the Agency. of compliance
of the criteria established by the AEPD.

As evidenced in the documentation of the administrative procedure:

1) On 04/30/2008, the assignment of certain credits in-
tre Santander Consumer Finance, E.F.C., S.A. (Santander Consumer) and Aktiv Capital
Portfolio Investments, A.G. (Aktiv Kapital) before a notary public. Among these credits
found that of the claimant.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/47

2) Subsequently and through different commercial operations of global assignment of
assets and liabilities, said credit is acquired by my principal PRA Iberia, S.L.U.
(PRA)

3) Both in the declaration before a notary public and in the inspection, Santander Consumer
affirms that the claimant acquired a Union Fenosa credit card by telephone
ca on 10/4/2000 under applicable law. Said telephone operation, effectuated
tuated under the applicable regulations at that time, it was reviewed and signed by
a proxy of Santander Consumer before registering the card.

4) It is also credited in the movements that prove the use of said card,
that it is activated on September 9, 2002 by means of a payment at the station
of service of XXXXXXXXX–Cedip. For XX€ and the card continues to be used until
canceled due to non-payment.

5) A certificate from Santander Consumer is also attached, accrediting
receipts pending payment, that is, receipts numbers 41 to 51 for an amount
total nominal value of XXX euros, the first of them being on 02/01/2006 and the last on
them on 12/01/2006. That is, the card has been active from 09/09/2002 to
01/12/2006 in which the cancellation of the same occurs due to non-payment.

When the card is activated, it is observed that there has been a change in the account
current, thus in the movements that prove the existence of the debt the co-account
The current in which the charges are made is: “Account Number: ***ACCOUNT.1” (the data
These are not complete for reasons of confidentiality of the assigning company) although
when the card is registered, almost 2 years before (on 10/04/2000) the account that was
reflects is *XXXX, which clearly demonstrates that the claimant changed the number
checking account number to activate the card and start using it.

7) Both the claimant and the Agency pay attention to the account in which the
requested the card on 10/04/2000 (account that according to Ibercaja's declaration was closed
gives on 12/21/2001), although this account does not coincide with the activation account of the
card on 09/09/2002, and where the card charges occurred, that is, the number
number of account that appears in the movements that accredit the use of the card, the
checking account “Account Number: ****XXXX”.

8) Interestingly, neither the claimant nor the Agency ask about this checking account
neither my principal nor Santander Consumer, and this taking into account that the Agency is
addresses my client for the second time in June 2020 but says nothing about the de-
statement from the complainant or about its extension of the investigation to Ibercaja (not to
Santander Consumer) with what there is, there is no equal application of the law, since
does not understand this party why the Agency did not communicate this party in a second
occasion (so that it could ask the transferor entity) or go directly to
directly to the assigning entity to clarify the account in which the events occurred.
credit card charges and payments.

9) The extracts of said card from 09/01/2002 to 02/08/2006 prove
the use of the card up to 56 times for consumption for an amount greater than 1,500
euros, in the period of more than 3 years in which it has been active, although the ce-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/47

dente only certifies the debit balance of receipts from 02/01/2006 for an amount
principal (without interest) of XXX euros, with which there have clearly been payments
on the card charge account.

10) Finally, it is not found either in the agreement of the beginning of the procedure
sanctioning party that the inspection has asked the entity Santander Consumer the
detail of the transfers received in your account for amounts of €150
(06/16/2008) and €250 (06/28/2011) since the claimant made the payment in the accounts
of Santander Consumer.
 
11) My client provides the concept that you can consult in your accounts about this
last transfer, by virtue of the detail provided by the transferor, being this:
“TRANSFER OF: ***TRANSFER.1”.

Thus, the issuing entity of the transfer is entity 2096, belonging to the entity
entity Caja de España, today Unicaja Banco2, although none of this is under investigation.
tion by the Agency and what is being investigated is partial and without my client
have the opportunity to contribute or add to the resolution of this case, being
thus at the discretion of the partial information provided in the inspection.

What has been reported so far is that my client, regardless of the analysis
the Agency's information on the contract signed by the assigning entity in April 2008 and at
that we will refer to later, has proven its diligence in complying with
the law and has submitted evidence of the debt in the name of the claimant, apparently
is certain and enforceable, and the Agency does not reason how my client can prove
Greater diligence in compliance with data protection regulations.

Yes, it should be mentioned in advance that the claimant at no time
has denied the debt, nor has it provided the documentation provided to the police to
the filing of the appropriate complaint for identity theft, if it is the
case, since they would be the competent bodies to carry out investigation work that
exceed the competence of my client.

Also mention that the most important proof of charge of the Agency in this
case (Ibercaja's reply) allows it to affirm that the processing of data from the
complainant does not comply with the principles that must govern the processing of personal data
(article 5 RGPD), although what the Agency forgets is that:

1) The charge and credit account of the card is not the same as the one consulted by the
Agency, nor the one that accredits the existence of the debt.

2) The information obtained by the Agency is carried out in the use of the attributes
tions conferred by law.

3) My principal cannot, by itself, carry out this investigative work that
the Agency, nor obtain confirmation from Ibercaja or any other bank.

You only have, based on the RGPD, the possibility of accessing said information whenever
that: a. Is provided by the interested party (in this case, the claimant who has not
contacted my client nor has he shown interest in clarifying his case). b.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/47

Of the administrative bodies with investigative powers: Protection Agency
Data tion, police, judges and courts, etc.

All of the foregoing implies that my client has acted with the utmost diligence
can demand in the treatment of the claimant's information, likewise, my maintenance
dante, in compliance with the criteria established by this Agency, has proceeded to annul
the debt in its files and make it available to public authorities and bodies
and security forces, judges and courts - for the submission of any information and
documentation required to clarify the facts once the claim
Please file the appropriate complaint for impersonation of responsibility. To this
In this regard, it is accredited by copying the situation in the systems of my command.
te, the current status of the claimant's file:

The Agency's criteria are established in different resolutions, among which are the following:
tar: 1) file No.: E/01202/2016 RESOLUTION OF FILE OF ACTION-
NES; 2) the also RESOLUTION OF FILE OF ACTIONS of the procedure
to No.: E/01178/2020 and, 3) file No.: E/00712/2019 (...); For its part, it stands out
procedure No.: E/01462/2019, (...).

3.- Of the assignment of credits and the legality of the treatment. Of balloon contracts and
its regulation in the Civil Code (CC). Of the drafting of the contractual clauses and
of the competition for its interpretation. Of the responsibility of the existence and legis-
timacy of credits in the CC. Of the nullity derived from article 1203 CC and the
TS doctrine. Of the non-retroactivity of the application of the law.

The Agency both in the Seventh fact and in the Legal Basis II, 3rd analysis
part of the contract entered into between Aktiv Kapital and Santander Consumer in April
2008, specifically provisions V, and clause 1.2. to conclude that:

1) That my client knew or, in the words of the Agency "assumed" from the beginning
as more probable the existence that the credits were not real or correct and
that even some of the credits might not exist.

2) That my principal does not certify that he has adopted the measures required by compliance
diligent compliance with the obligation imposed by the RGPD, both in the collection of the
personal data as in the subsequent treatment of the same, so that, from the re-
daction of the clauses signed in 2008, there is a serious lack of diligence
of the entity claimed in compliance with the obligations imposed by the regulation
protection of personal data. Diligent compliance with
principle of legality in the treatment of third party data would require that the person in charge
of the treatment is in a position to prove it, (principle of proactive responsibility)
goes).

3) The foregoing could imply the violation of article 6.1 of the
RGPD, whenever the claimed entity could have processed the personal data
of the claimant without any legitimation.

Being the related facts analyzed under the current regulations with in-
reliance on the prohibition of the retroactive application of the law, by virtue of
constitutional fact, we must specify at this time that the interpretation of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/47

Agency of the signed contract responds previously to a wording of 2008, in which
that there was a different culture in terms of data protection and the transfer of
credits of individuals and above all, to a partial interpretation of the Agency, since
does not take into consideration the system of application of these contracts under the
Applicable regulations: Civil Code and the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. Must
also add the following clauses to the information extracted by the Agency:

1) Stipulation IX. “That, in view of the foregoing, the Sellers are interested in
sell and transmit at a premium and as doubtful, and the Assignee is interested in
buy and acquire, the Credit Portfolio (...) In particular, the object of this contract
is the balloon sale for a lump sum price of the entire Loan Portfolio in
its status as a financial asset, without individualized consideration of each of the
the Credits that compose it and taking into account, in particular, the doubtful nature
of each and every one of the Credits.”

2) Clause 1.2. “(…). The price is fixed and is not subject to any modification
as a consequence of non-existence, those that amount to intransmissibility or negligence
ity of any of the Credits, due to the lack of solvency of the debtors, due to the
content of the Credit Data, nor for any other assumption regarding the
that the responsibility of the Assignors has been expressly excluded”

3) Clause 2: “The Assignee, in its capacity as legitimate owner of the Credit Portfolio
ditos by virtue of this deed, assumes any type of responsibility derived or
that may derive from such ownership as of the date hereof, releasing
the Sellers of any liability arising from said ownership from said
date."

4) Clause 10. JURISDICTION. "For any litigation, discrepancy, question or claim-
tion that could derive from the execution or interpretation of this Contract the Parties,
waiving any other jurisdiction, submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts
gados and Courts of Madrid capital (Spain).”

As can be clearly verified, the operation signed between Santander Consu-
mer and Aktiv Kapial is a transfer of credits of article 1526 and ss of the Civil Code that
is defined as a transfer of ownership of a credit between a former creditor
dor and a new one – assignor and assignee-, produced as a legal effect of a counter-
celebrated between them. In the assignment of receivables, there is no entire assignment of the property.
contractual position, which would require the consent of the debtor, as in the
transfer of contracts, but only of active ownership, so that they will be dismembered
the positions relative to the creditor and debtor of one of the parties.

As a reflection of the Assignor's responsibility, not towards the Assignee but towards the
debtor with respect to the assigned right, there is numerous jurisprudence of the Supreme Court
mo, that different Provincial Courts apply: 1) The Sentence of the AP Navarra,
sec. 3rd, S 12-19-2011, No. 289/2011 (…); 2) The Judgment of the Second Section 2 of
the Provincial Court of León dated June 19, 2007 (…)”.

Being clear about the assignor's responsibility for the object of sale (do not forget
let us say that what is sold is a right to payment, not an obligation to pay),
that the transferor, Santander Consumer, intends with the inclusion of said clauses is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/47

the complete exoneration of responsibility against the Assignee, that is, Aktiv Kapi-
such. In other words, Aktiv Kapital accepts that the sale takes place in a balloon and with credits
doubtful, which implies that it will not request any type of compensation from the Assignor,
that is, to Santander Consumer. It does not have any additional application in terms of
data protection, although, surely if the contract were drawn up today,
its clause would be more appropriate to the RGPD (...):

It is not possible, just as the Agency indicates that the fact that an Assignor sells credits
ditos as doubtful, implies that it transmits its responsibility to the Assignee, since this
It goes against both the applicable legislation and the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court.
in fact, recent judgments of the Supreme Court such as Judgment number
ro 2816/2019, of September 18, 2019 (from procedure 509/2017)
and the STS November 20, 2008 STS 1127/2008, Appeal number: 2280/2002, (...).

Thus, the non-existence of the contract in the framework of an assignment of credit implies the vacuum
of the figure of the subjective novation due to change of creditor collected in the article
1203 of the CC, consequently becoming a "derived nullity" of the legal business
of assignment of credit between the assignor and the assignee. Therefore, following the conclusion
TS on derivative nullity and thus the application of 1203 CC the only consequence
sequence that can be applied to my client is to bear the consequences of the
loss of his right, but in no case can the burden of responsibility be reversed.
liability established in the CC, so the assignee cannot incur liability
any contractual relationship with the debtor assigned by the lack of compliance with their duties
contractual by the assignor.

In any case, as the Agency has already established in its different Resolutions,
the interpretation of the clauses in the contracts between the parties is exclusive
competence of the civil courts, exceeding the competences attributed by
Law to the Agency. In this regard, clause 10 of the contract signed
between the Assignor (Santander Consumer) and the Assignee (Aktiv Kapital) (...)

For its part, it is noteworthy that the necessary application of the principle of non-retroactivity
validity of the Law, both in the regulations in force in distance contracting and in the
application of the principle of proactive responsibility of the RGPD.

Thus, the Agency has established the application of the principle of retroactive liability
of the RGPD, published in April 2016, to a contract signed in April 2008. Appli-
tion of the RGPD to a contract signed 8 years before the publication of the Regulation
General Data Protection and 10 years before its entry into force.

Non-retroactivity is a consequence of the criminal principle of typicity and legality
that, like other informative principles of Criminal Law, is applicable, muta-
tis mutandis to sanctioning law.

The art. 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution states that the Constitution is guaranteed by the irre-
troactivity of the sanctioning provisions that are not favorable or restrictive of rights
individual rights and art. 25 CE establishes that no one can be convicted or punished
committed by actions or omissions that at the time they occur do not constitute a crime.
to, fault or administrative infraction, according to the legislation in force at that time. The
Chapter III of the Preliminary Title (arts. 25 to 31) of Law 40/2015, of October 1, of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/47

Legal Regime of the Public Sector contains the constitutional precepts that regulate
lan the sanctioning power of the Administration (...)

4.- The result of the inspection actions. From the principle of objective responsibility
tive. Of the principle of culpability that should govern administrative law

As we reported in the first fact of this writing, my principal cannot
be subject to a sanction for fault, since this would be to hold them accountable objectively,
which is proscribed by both legislation and jurisprudence.

In this sense, we highlight the arguments of the following Resolutions of
the Spanish Data Protection Agency:

1) File No.: E/02304/2018 (...): in light of this precept, the sanction
cionadora can be demanded by way of intent or guilt, being sufficient in the latter
case the mere non-observance of the duty of care. In the Judgment of 10/17/2007”

The doctrine of the National High Court on this matter is to require those entities
in which the development of its activity entails a continuous processing of personal data.
clients and third parties who observe an adequate level of diligence. In the SAN of
10/17/2007; SAN of 04/29/2010

2) File No.: E/02157/2018: Also the SAN of 04/29/2010, in its Basis
Juridical sixth, regarding a fraudulent hiring, indicated that “The question does not
is to elucidate whether the appellant processed the personal data of the complainant without
your consent, such as whether or not you used reasonable care in trying to
identify the person with whom the contract was signed.

5.- Of the absence of application of article 58 RGPD as an alternative measure. Of the
lack of transparency of the Agency before the start of this procedure
sanctioning Principle of Equality before the Law.

From this understanding of things, constitutional jurisprudence holds that
the principles of legal security and interdiction of the arbitrariness of powers
public authorities prevent judicial bodies from arbitrarily departing from precedent
own. Consequently, the principle of equality is violated, in its aspect of rights.
right to equality in application of the Law, when the same body, existing identity
substantiality of the supposed fact prosecuted, departs from the criterion maintained in
previous cases, without a sufficient and reasonable justification to justify
than the new position in the interpretation and application of the same legality.

In this sense, as we have commented, the Agency has known since 11/21/2019
that the claimant is unaware of the transfers made in her name and is unaware of the
purchases made with your card, in addition to not remembering the current account
go and payment of said dispositions (fact five), also collects information from a
bank entity (albeit erroneous) on the checking account at the time of the confirmation.
treatment (which was subsequently modified) in which it is indicated that the
Claimant's account was canceled prior to card activation (made sex-
to).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/47

Although the Agency, contrary to what it has done on other occasions, decides not to transfer
give this information to my principal. However, in other procedures, the Agency
decides to use its competences in the area of cooperation with those responsible, who
non-sanctioning, thus it is worth mentioning as an example the procedure No.: E/02620/2019 and
No.: E/07245/2019 (…)”.

6.- Of the diabolical test. From the principle of presumption of innocence (in dubio pro reo)

Thus treated the facts that occurred in the present procedure, it is possible to apply to the pre-
In this case, the principle of presumption of innocence of article 130.1 of the Law
30/1992.

As stated by the Supreme Court (STS 10/26/98) of the right to the presumption of
innocence (...) and the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 02/20/1989 (...).

These same arguments are applied by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in its Resolutions, citing Resolution No. R/01191/2009 (...) and the experience
tooth No.: E/04128/2017 (...).

In any case, it is mandatory to review in relation to the principle of presumption of innocence
which, due to its specialty, are applicable to Sanctioning Administrative Law.
cation, with some qualification, but without exceptions, the inspiring principles of the or-
criminal offense, the full virtuality of this principle of presumption of innocence being clear.
cence. In this sense, the Constitutional Court, in Judgment 76/1990 (...).

According to this approach, it must be borne in mind that they can only be saints
tioned for facts constituting an administrative infraction, natural persons and
legal entities that are responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence. Likewise,
It must be taken into account, in relation to this principle of presumption of innocence,
that article 53.2.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Policy of Public Administrations, includes this principle, saying that the in-
interested in an administrative procedure of a punitive nature have rights
cha a: “To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility while
the contrary is proven”.

In short, the application of the principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing a
administrative infraction when the existence of
supporting evidence of the facts that motivate this imputation. (…)”

7.- Of the principle of legitimate expectations. Criteria applied by the AEPD in previous re-
solutions

From this understanding of things, constitutional jurisprudence holds that
the principles of legal security and interdiction of the arbitrariness of powers
public authorities prevent judicial bodies from arbitrarily departing from precedent
own. Consequently, the principle of equality is violated, in its aspect of rights.
right to equality in application of the Law, when the same judicial body, existing
substantial identity of the supposed fact prosecuted, departs from the criterion maintained
in previous cases, without a sufficient and reasonable justification that
justify the new position in the interpretation and application of the same legality.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/47

Likewise, the principle of protection of the legitimate expectations of individuals in the
scope of public law limits the activity of public power, to prevent it from
destroy without sufficient reason the confidence that its action may have created in the
citizens about the stability of a certain legal situation. Therefore, there is
violation of said principle when the Tax Agency initiates this procedure.
lie, given the exposed antecedents. In this regard we bring up the
Grant No.: E/01818/2019, (...).

8.- In relation to the infringement of article 15 RGPD. Of the right of access.

In the basis of law III of the agreement to initiate this procedure, the
Agency details what are the facts that give rise to the violation of article 15
RGPD and that, in summary, are: 1) The claimant on 06/24/19 sends a letter
certificate where you request access to information about your personal data.2)
On 09/17/19, this Agency notifies the entity claimed of the international complaint
posted by the claimant. 3) My client provides one of the conversations held
you give on 05/17/2019 with the claimant who … “?” 4) In this sense, also my re-
submitted provides a burofax sent on 10/17/2019 and a certified email with all the
information and documentation held by my principal.

The Agency concludes that “In the present case, the claimant, by means of a certified letter
date dated 06/24/19, requested the respondent entity to inform, in writing, the
postal address indicated, (not verbally or by electronic means), of all the information
information regarding your personal data, making use of the right of access that
attended. However, the claimed entity did not proceed to send the interested party the information
training requested until 10/17/19 (3 and a half months after requesting it)
do), and after receiving, from this Agency the notification of the claim.”

Consequently, the Agency understands that my client has infringed article 15
RGPD and is sanctioned with article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD, considers
very serious, for purposes of prescription, "The impediment or obstruction or failure to
reiterated attention to the exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22
of the Regulation”.

From the wording of article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD, it is inferred that the infraction is the
impediment or obstruction (what my client has not been able to carry out because
in fact has answered the claimant) or for the repeated non-attention of the exercise of
law. "Reiteration" is defined in the dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language
What: (…)

Although, as evidenced by the facts established in the agreement to start the
sanctioning procedure, the occasions in which my client has been delayed in the
response to the claimant, it has been only 1, there has been no repetition.

It can thus be deduced, in relation to the facts proven by the inspection and supported by
the documents attached here, that the opening of this sanction procedure
tioner breaks the principles of typicity and legality and that, therefore, given the evidence
submitted, this administrative act must be archived due to absence
responsibility of my client.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/47

The principle of typicity is a guarantee of the legal certainty to which the
citizen, to know at all times and with certainty, the behaviors that constitute
yen an administrative infraction, and at the same time, the sanction that they carry. For his
part, in accordance with the principle of general legality of Law, expressly recognized
by the CE (arts. 9.1 and 103.1), which implies the full submission of the Administration
the law and the Law, the subjection of the Administration to the normative block, the
This sanctioning procedure lacks any normative justification. (STC
145/2013)
 
The performance of my client does not conform at all to the typified element because: 1)
It has not prevented the claimant from exercising her rights. 2) Nor has it
has hindered, it is more maintains telephone contact with it to clarify
your doubts and advise you on the appropriate processes to solve it. 3) Nor has he left
to answer your exercise of right, even if it is later than the indicated period, nor
much less has it reiterated any behavior of non-response.

9.- Of the prescription of the infraction

Being thus the facts previously related, in the hypothetical case that my man-
would have committed an infraction, it would be the one established in article 74.c) In-
fractions considered minor of the LOPDGDD, which indicates that: “c) Not responding to requests
conditions of exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD,
unless the provisions of article 72.1.k) of this law were applicable”

Although, taking into account that the prescription of minor sanctions is within the term
of 1 year and that my client answered on 10/17/2019, the present infraction that, insist-
mos my principal has not committed, it would have prescribed on 10/17/2020 or with the extension of the
state of alarm, on 05/12/2020.

The appropriate procedure for the lack of response to an exercise of the right of
according to article 63 LOPDGDD is a Tutela procedure, at least to give
the possibility to my client to correct any error, which he did as soon as he had
knowledge that the claimant is complaining about her lack of formal response.

And we emphasize that the infraction that the agency imposes on my client is the lack of a
formal requirement to the attention of their right, since the Agency itself indicates it to the in-
to state in legal basis III that: “In the present case, the claimant, me-
By means of a certified letter dated 06/24/19, he requested the entity claimed to inform him
mara, in writing to the postal address indicated, (not verbally or by electronic means)
unique), of all the information related to your personal data, making use of the right
access cho that assisted him. However, the claimed entity did not proceed to send
to the interested party the requested information until 10/17/19 (3 and a half months after
having requested it), and after receiving, from this Agency, the notification of the claim-
tion.”

Although, neither the RGPD nor the LOPDGDD says anything about the formality in the lack of answer.
neither the Agency (nor the claimant itself) indicates anything about the accreditation
of my client to the conversations held with the aforementioned claimant for the
resolution of your case.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/47

10.-Of the lack of motivation. From the principle of proportionality

This party must state that, at the opening of this proceeding, it does not find
any motivation on the part of the Administration in which it can prove or
argue their defense, which leads to being framed in a situation of indepen- dence
fension. In this way, this party understands, saying this with all due respect and only
in terms of defence, that the Administration's action violates article 9.3.
CE due to the lack of reasons or causes on which it is based when applying the standard.

The art. 9.3 of the CE enshrines the principle of interdiction of the arbitrariness of the
public duties. An action can be considered arbitrary when it lacks justification.
cation. The Constitution therefore requires that all actions by public authorities be
present supported by justifying reasons that serve as its foundation. From it I know
At least two important consequences follow:

11.- Subsidiary request. Reduction of penalty amounts. Application of the principle
point of proportionality. Attention to the circumstances of the case.

Subsidiarily and despite the fact that this party does not agree with the infringements
and sanctions indicated by the Agency, requests the reduction to the minimum degree of the
sanctions and corrective measures established in article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 83.2 k) RGPD, in addition to the indications
given by the Agency the following:

1) d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
violation. Well, there is no police report, nor has the claimant put
contact my represented to be able to know your doubts or to be able to request
further explanatory information.

2) e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity. And so it has happened with the
transfer of credits from Aktiv Kapital to PRA Iberia.

3) g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate. Y
so my client has a data protection officer whom the Agency doesn't even
ra has addressed.

On the other hand, and as we have indicated previously and based on the principle of equality
before the law, we request the application of article 58.2.a) RGPD by the Agency
consisting of warning my principal, as he has done in proceedings
sos previous that we have detailed in this writing:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
indicated below: a) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment
with a warning when the planned processing operations may infringe
the provisions of this Regulation”. To the above facts are applicable the
following GROUNDS OF LAW (...)

12.- WITNESS request:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/47

Written responses by legal persons (article 381 LEC). that under cover
of article 381 of the Law of Civil Procedure that requires commercial companies:

A) Santander Consumer, to rule on the following issues: 1.
That they provide the current account in which the amounts related to the
tion to this case. 2. That they provide the current account and the details of the transfers
of € XXX and € XXX which were subsequently transferred to my principal.

B) To the banking entity(ies) resulting from the previous test, so that they can rule on
cie on the following questions: 1. If you know the current account(s) contribute(s) and
that identify their ownership. 2. If credit card payments and charges occurred
credit of this case. 3. Ownership and concepts of the transfers of XXX and
XXX euros reported in the facts of this proceeding.

ELEVEN: On 06/01/21, the respondent entity was notified of the proposed
resolution, in which it is proposed that, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Protection of Data proceed to sanction the entity PRA IBÉRICA, for infraction of
article 6.1) of the RGPD, regarding the lack of diligence in the processing of data
of the claimant with a fine of 30,000 euros (thirty thousand euros) and for in-
section of article 15 of the RGPD, regarding the lack of diligence when facilitating
restrict access to information on the personal data of the claimant, with a fine
of 30,000 euros (thirty thousand euros).

TWELFTH: On 06/15/21, the respondent entity sends this Agency a written
of allegations to the proposed resolution, in which it indicates, among others:

“FIRST.- Ratification of the first pleadings brief: State that my representative
sitting is ratified in everything indicated in the first brief of allegations of the expert
reference tooth, reiterating its content.

SECOND.- Of the Infraction of article 6.1.RGPD: Of the legality of the treatment. I-
new guys. Of the current account in which the payments were debited and of the proof
of the payment made by the complainant.

More evidence has been requested and attempted than has been presented, but to date
At this time he has not been able to contribute, although he has been able to collect them and contributes them in the
present writing. In this sense, it is provided as DOCUMENT No. 1, certificate of
the assigning entity, Santander Consumer, which proves that the complainant changed the
current account to the entity Caixabank.

This new information proves that the checking account charged to the receipts was not
Ibercaja, but a Caixabank current account, so the evidence collected is
complete and therefore it is necessary to complete it with this new information.

For his part, my client has been able to obtain the transfer receipt for €250
made by the complainant herself. As proven in DOCUMENT No. 2 in di-
supporting document appears as "ORDERER" of the transfer, the claimant itself
and the current account from which the transfer comes is from an account with
Unicaja current (previously Caja de España de Inversiones).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/47

In this sense, it should be clarified that the fact that the complainant appears as
THE ORDERING PARTY of the transfer necessarily implies that he has had to identify
be made in the bank from which the transfer was issued, that is, from
Unibox. Most likely, the complainant herself went to the bank
to, once identified with your DNI, order the transfer from your account
Unicaja to my client's account.

Thus, it is not a cash deposit or a card payment, but rather a transfer.
difference between checking accounts which means that THE ORDERING PARTY HAS TO IDENTIFY
TIFY. This Agency rejects the version indicating, among other reasons, that: “No
it is true, as the entity complained against affirms that, “(…) the complainant in no way
ment has denied the debt (...)”, since the claim brief begins with the following
following statement: “PRA IBERIA, is claiming a debt from me for a contract that
I don't know Until 2013 third parties have been making transfers
bank accounts in my name (…)”. It should be clarified that my principal was maintaining
conversations with the complainant to resolve her doubts and at no time
denied the debt and in relation to bank transfers made by third parties, it is
document No. 2 attached, which reliably proves that the ordering party
of the transfer of XXX € made to my client's account, was made by the pro-
whistleblower.

This new evidence provided is of vital importance to prove the veracity of the
allegations of this party and being information that concerns the complainant and
your bank, it is thus necessary to extend the trial period to be able to
may request information from CaixaBank to confirm that the purchases and dispositions
transactions made with the Unión Fenosa credit card from 09/09/02 to
1/12/06 have been charged to the account ***XXXX and that the entity Uni-
box that it was the complainant herself who ordered the transfer from her co-
Current to my client's account (***XXXX) on 06/27/201.

THIRD.- Of the legality of the treatment and the diligent action of my client.
Compliance with the criteria established by the AEPD.

My principal has accredited with the documentation that he has provided in the file
that he has acted diligently because, although he cannot provide the contract signed
by the complainant, as the Agency insists, since it was carried out by telephone.
nica, in accordance with current legislation, what it does provide is:

1) Notarial certificate that certifies the assignment of the credit signed with the assignor (San-
Tandem Consumer).

2) Confirmation from a Santander Consumer representative that the telephone operation
nica was contracted correctly, thus signing the approval of the concession of the
card.

3) Movements that prove the use of said card, that it is activated on the 9th of
September 2002 by means of a payment at the Navalcarnero service station –
Cedip. For €39 and the card continues to be used until it is canceled due to non-payment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/47

4) The extracts of the aforementioned card from 01/09/2002 to 08/02/2006 prove
the use of the card up to 56 times for consumption for an amount greater than XXXX
euros, in the period of more than 3 years in which it has been active, although the ce-
dente only certifies the debit balance of receipts from 02/01/2006 for an amount
principal (without interest) of XXX euros, with which there have clearly been payments
on the card charge account.

5) The Santander Consumer certificate accredits the receipts pending payment, this
are, receipts numbers 41 to 51 for a total nominal amount of XXX euros, being the
the first of them on 02/01/2006 and the last of them on 12/01/2006. That is, they paid
the receipts for the use of the credit card from 1 to 40 without any type of incident.

6) With the new evidence provided, it is proven that the account charged to consumers
The card's account was a CaixaBank current account and not an Ibercaja account.

7) That the complainant has made transfers from a checking account to her
name of the Unicaja entity.

Given the above evidence provided, this party understands that the employer has accredited
use of reasonable diligence in the accreditation of the credit in the name of the complaint
and, especially, in document No. 2 provided together with this document, it is
proves that the complainant knew of the debt because on 06/28/2011 she ordered a transfer
from your Caja de España de Inversiones (today UNICAJA) account.

Therefore, this party understands that the documentation presented proves that my maintenance
danante has diligently complied with the data protection regulations and likewise
document 2 proves that the complainant's knowledge of the existence
of the debt was earlier, in 2011, since it ordered the transfer of the amount of €XXX
to the account of my principal, thus said document contradicts what is indicated in the pro-
resolution that states that: “In the case at hand, the claimant, when
Do you know that the entity PRA IBERICA is claiming a debt
that it does not recognize as its own, it gets in touch, on 06/24/19, with the entity requesting
having access to your personal data and denouncing that the debt is yours and this,
as responsible for the processing of personal data,…”

It should be clarified that the complainant NEVER filed a complaint at the police station of the sub-
put “impersonation” that he suggests in his writings and also my maintenance
Dante was clarifying with her the doubts that he raised precisely trying to
clarify the use of the card, the paid and unpaid fees, the deposits made,
etc., although at no time did he indicate that there was an alleged "impersonation of
personality” or fraudulent use of your data by third parties.

Even so, to the best of my client's knowledge, the complainant has not presented the opportunity
a complaint to the police station so that it can be clarified if indeed third persons hi-
received income in his name and this despite the fact that all the documentation was sent to him
crediting the debt. It is essential for this part to prove the veracity of what happened.
ordered and this to demonstrate his diligence because as far as my client knows, the de-
advertiser made a transfer from his account by previously identifying himself in
his bank, thus knew of the existence of the debt and did not deny it in the
conversations held to clarify them. Despite the above, my man-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/47

dante unilaterally decides to annul the file following the criteria established
by the Agency in its resolutions No.: E/01202/2016 FILE RESOLUTION
OF PERFORMANCES; RESOLUTION OF FILE OF ACTIONS of the No.:
E/01178/2020 and, file No.: E/00712/2019 with its also FILE resolution
OF PERFORMANCES.

In these cases, the investigative actions are archived because those responsible
of treatment acted in the belief that the person hiring was who he said he was. Ade-
Moreover, in these cases, the complainants filed a complaint with the Police for su-
identity planting using your personal data, although in this case it did not happen.
thus, although my client prefers to make the decision to close the file so as not to
worsen their situation because being affected by partial tests supposes a serious
break to the position of this part. Fortunately and despite the antiquity my
principal has been able to gather evidence that exonerates it from liability in the pre-
feel procedure. But also in procedure No.: E/01462/2019, with results
FILE RESOLUTION, in which the same previous criterion is applied even
when the entity under inspection could not provide a copy of the signed contract,
however, this Agency considered its action adequate in the cancellation of the debt.
da, as my client has done when he learned of the alleged identity theft.
identity of the claimant and without, until the moment of the agreement of the beginning of the procedure
sanctioning procedure in which this Agency reveals it, could have done so
because he didn't know.

This part does not share the judgment made by this Agency on the Foundation of Right
II, section 2 by indicating that: “Secondly, a clear lack of due diligence
demonstrated by the claimed entity, in breach of the principle of accuracy
tude (article 5.1d.), since reasonable measures have not been adopted to ensure that
prioritize or rectify without delay the personal data that are inaccurate with respect to
for the purposes for which they are processed, and this is so, because when the entity received the letter
of the claimant on 06/26/19, requesting access to information and putting in
doubt the veracity of the debt, the entity, far from showing due diligence, did
ignoring said request, continues to demand payment of the debt and it is not until
After receiving the request from this Agency, on 09/17/19, when the entity, me-
via burofax sends, dated 10/16/19, the information that the claimant was requesting.
citing from 3 months and 20 days ago.” There is no evidence to confirm
this body imputes to my client. Since the complainant raises
doubts about the existence of his debt, my client has conversations with
the same to clarify your doubts, not to claim the debt, nor is it true that my
client "ignore" your request, quite the opposite, my client
takes your complaint seriously and gave it a personalized treatment.

Therefore, this part does not understand why the Agency claims without any evidence that the
support that my principal claimed the debt and ignored the claim of
the complainant when it is not true, although it is convenient to argue a
lack of diligence that did not occur on the part of my client and thus without any proof
The Agency can state categorically that “…it cannot and should not be taken into
consideration the allegations made by the entity complained about its presumed actions
diligent action in this case.”, which ultimately and in the absence of evidence what he wants to de-
say is that "my client's version is not believed" although not all the actions are weighted.
acts carried out by my principal, such as the remission of the documentation in the mo-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/47

moment in which he perceives his error and the annulment of the debt in the moment in which he knows
ce that the complainant affirms that they have presumably supplanted her identity in the
payment of its debt and this even taking into account that the complainant does not provide the pre-
accepted police report.

FOURTH.- Of the prescription of the alleged infringement of article 6.1.RGPD in light
of the new evidence provided.

The new evidence presented, that is, the proof provided as document No. 2
in which the complainant orders a transfer of XXX € to the accounts of my representative.
sitting, shows that: 1) At least since 06/28/2011 the complainant knew the
debt and its claim by my client, so he orders the transfer from his account
from Unicaja to my client's account.

2) In the concept of the transfer, the complainant indicates: "*** CONCEPT.1" that
corresponds to the numbering of the file that is being claimed and the five
first digits of your ID.

3) As previously explained, to carry out a transfer order from
an account to a third party, it is essential that the payer identify himself with his DNI.

Being the infraction classified as very serious by article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD
(“The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of license
treatment established in article 6 of the RGPD”) and being the term of
prescription of 3 years, by virtue of what is established in article 83.5, it is accredited
with the new documentation provided that the infraction has prescribed.

FIFTH.- Of the principle of presumption of innocence (in dubio pro reo) in the assessment
of the evidence already presented and the new evidence provided. The tests above
provided are completed with the present ones and from all of these they certify that the
Complainant changed his current account for the activation of his account card
from Ibercaja to that of CaixaBank.

Likewise, it is proven that the complainant herself identified herself and made a transfer
payment to my client's account from the Unicaja entity. This is how the facts were treated
occurred in this proceeding, the principle of
presumption of innocence of article 130.1 of Law 30/1992 establishes that “Only
will be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction the persons
physical and legal entities that are responsible for them even by way of simple
non-observance.”

The Sentence of the Constitutional Court of 02/20/1989 indicates that “Our doctrine and
criminal jurisprudence have been maintaining that, although both can be considered
as manifestations of a generic favor rei, there is a substantial difference between
the right to the presumption of innocence, which develops its effectiveness when there is
an absolute lack of evidence or when the tests performed do not meet the procedural guarantees
sales and the jurisprudential principle in dubio pro reo that belongs to the moment of va-
appraisal or appraisal of evidence, and who has to judge when that activity concurs
indispensable evidentiality, there is a rational doubt about the real concurrence of
the objective and subjective elements that make up the criminal type in question.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/47

These same arguments are applied by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in its Resolutions, citing as an example, Resolution No.
R/01191/2009, of May 25, 2009, in which applying the previous sentences
resolved: “Ultimately, those principles prevent imputing an administrative infraction
goes when proof of charge accrediting the
facts (...) applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determining fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
most favorable to the interested party “In file No.: E/04128/2017, RESOLUTION
TION OF FILE OF ACTIONS, the Agency itself applies this criterion indicating-
do: In any case, it is mandatory to review in relation to the principle of presumption of
innocence that the Sanctioning Administrative Law, due to its specialty, is of
application, with some nuance but without exception, the inspiring principles or-
criminal offense, the full virtuality of this principle of presumption of innocence being clear.
cence.

The Constitutional Court, in Judgment 76/1990, considers that the right to pre-
the assumption of innocence entails “that the sanction be based on acts or means of proof
charges or incriminators of the alleged conduct; that the burden of proof
corresponds to the person who accuses, without anyone being obliged to prove their own innocence;
and that any insufficiency in the results of the tests carried out, freely va-
approved by the sanctioning body, it must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.”

According to this approach, it must be borne in mind that they can only be saints
tioned for facts constituting an administrative infraction, natural persons and
legal entities that are responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.

Likewise, it must be taken into account, in relation to this principle of presumption of
innocence, that article 53.2.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, includes this principle, saying
that those interested in an administrative procedure of a punitive nature
have the right to: “To the presumption of non-existence of administrative responsibility
Until the contrary is proven”.

In short, the application of the principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing a
administrative infraction when the existence of
supporting evidence of the facts that motivate this imputation.

SIXTH.- Of the bankruptcy of the principle of typicity.

Violation of article 15 classified as serious for not responding in writing to the claim.
mation of the complainant. In the basis of law III of the agreement to start the
In this procedure, the Agency details the facts that give rise to the in-
fraction of article 15 RGPD and that, in summary, are: 1) The claimant dated
06/24/19 sends a certified letter requesting access to the information that is
about your personal data. 2) On 09/17/19, this Agency notifies the entity re-
claimed the complaint filed by the claimant through a transfer file
do of claim and request of information. 3) My client provides one of the con-
conversations held on 05/17/2019 with the claimant that demonstrates that she is
clarifying the complainant's doubts, that is, before she sent the certified letter

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/47

each. 4) Likewise, my principal sends an informative letter dated June 12, 2019
as evidenced on page 4 and 16 of the administrative file. In said letter,
identifies the origin of the debt and its breakdown. 5) In this sense, also my re-
submitted provides a burofax sent on 10/17/2019 and a certified email with all the
information and documentation held by my principal.

This Agency considers, assessing the evidence, that: "Well, in this case, the
entity complained against did not proceed to provide the complainant with the requested information until
ta 3 and a half months after requesting it with the aggravating circumstance that it was made,
even a month later, knowing that the claimant had put the facts in
knowledge of this Agency. “That is why, it is considered that the performance
of the entity in this process is in accordance with the typified element established in the
article 72.1.k of the LOPDGDD therefore, has avoided contesting the exercise of rights
claimant's right and therefore has prevented the claimant from knowing, for
written, all the information that the entity had about your personal data, answer
only after learning that the facts had been brought to light.
of this AEPD. “It should be noted that the point: “3) My principal provides one of the
conversations held on 05/17/2019 with the claimant who … “, is in-
complete in the pleadings brief so it is impossible to take it into consideration
for a correct answer. And it is true, my client answers late to the claim-
tion of the complainant when understanding BY ERROR that it was already being clarified
through telephone conversations but it cannot be judged that this error im-
per se implies an IMPEDIMENT or OBSTACULIZATION conduct, since it must clarify
It should be noted that there has been no requirement from the Agency nor has the complainant requested
altered your request, my principal simply perceives his error in the request letter.
amount of information sent by this Agency as it is the first news received
after the request of the complainant and by which he realizes the error made.

From the wording of article 72.1k) of the LOPDGDD, it is inferred that the infraction is the
impediment or hindrance -what my client has not been able to carry out because
in fact, it has answered the complainant and has proceeded to answer as soon as it has
received his error- or by the repeated non-attention of the exercise of right -not mediating in
In this case neither reiteration by the complainant nor requirement by the Agency.
"Reiteration" is defined in the dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language as: "1.
F. Action and effect of reiterate.” For its part, reiterate, according to the dictionary, is defined
like: “1. tr. Say or do something again. U.t. c. prnl.” “Impediment” is defined in the
dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language as: “1. tr. Obstacle, pregnancy or es-
nuisance for something.” For its part, "Hindering" is defined as the action and effect of
block. Which, in turn, is defined as “1. Prevent or hinder the achievement of
a purpose."

The fact is that my principal realizes the error in the absence of a reply
when it receives the request for information from the Agency, for this reason it proceeds to collect the
documentation of the debt and answers both the Agency and the complainant, in-
seeing all the documentation in order to correct your error and without the need for me to
request or reproach and this cannot be classified as aggravating, since the
request of the Agency is the first time that my principal has knowledge
the error committed, an error that he recognizes in his own reply to the complaint.
and apologizes for it, it does not seem that this way of proceeding implies
neither hindrance nor hindrance.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/47

My principal understands that the aggravating circumstance would be in any case if he persisted in not re-
send you the documentation or if you receive a new request from the complainant or a
request of the Agency, but it was not like that, there was no request or repro-
che, my principal proceeds to answer the complainant on the first occasion in which
that you are aware of your mistake and as soon as you collect the documentation of the debt,
apologizing for the mistake made.

This party understands that there is no evidence whatsoever that proves that it has been hindered or
prevented the exercise of rights of the complainant and thus considers that the qualification
of very serious of the Agency breaks the principles of criminality and legality. The beginning
typicity is a guarantee of the legal certainty to which the citizen is entitled,
to know at all times and with certainty, the behaviors that constitute an in-
administrative fraction, and at the same time, the sanction that they carry. Attending to the principle
principle of general legality of Law, expressly recognized by the Constitution
(arts. 9.1 and 103.1), which implies the full submission of the Administration to the law and the
Law, the subjection of the Administration to the normative block, the present procedure
sanctioning action lacks any normative justification.

SEVENTH.- Of the typification of the infraction and its prescription.

The facts previously reported, the only thing they show is that my client in
in the event that he had committed an infraction (because there is a tuition procedure)
fabric of rights that the Agency may have initiated in this case), would be the
established in article 74.c) Infractions considered minor of the LOPDGDD, which indicate
ca that: “c) Failure to respond to requests to exercise the rights established in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless applicable
provided in article 72.1.k) of this organic law.” Although, taking into account that
the prescriptions of minor sanctions are within 1 year and that my principal
answered on 10/17/2019, the present infraction that, we insist, my principal has not co-
entered, it would have prescribed on 10/17/2020 or with the extension of the state of alarm, the
07/01/2021. In any case, the appropriate procedure for the lack of response to
an exercise of right in accordance with article 63 LOPDGDD is a procedure
Protection of Rights, at least to give my client the possibility to remedy
fix any errors. As we indicated in the previous pleadings brief, the sanctions
administrative acts are restrictive administrative acts of rights, since they are limited
individual liberty (as expressed by the STC 42/87, of April 9) for this reason it is
It is essential that the Administration proves whether the behavior of my client deserves
more reproach than the typified in the norm in attention to the security principles
legal and freedom (art. 25.1 CE).

EIGHTH.- Subsidiary petition.

Reduction of penalty amounts. Application of the principle of proportionality.
Attention to the circumstances of the case and the new evidence presented. Subsidy-
and despite the fact that this party does not agree with the infractions and sanctions
indicated by the Agency, requests the reduction to the minimum degree of sanctions and
corrective measures established in article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, in accordance with
the provisions of article 83.2 k) RGPD. For its part, and based on the principle of equality
before the law, we request the application of article 58.2.a) RGPD by the Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/47

consisting of warning my principal, as he has done in proceedings
previous ones that we have detailed in this writing: “2. Each control authority
troll will have all of the following corrective powers listed below:
a) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the planned treatment operations may infringe the provisions of the
this Regulation” For all the above, I PRAY THE INSTRUCTOR to have
do by presenting this pleadings brief admits him and taking into account what is in it
exposed, after the corresponding procedures, raise the Director of the Spanish Agency
Data Protection Law Resolution declaring non-responsibility
ity of my represented in relation to the facts that are imputed to him or, subsidia-
strictly the application of article 58.2.a) RGPD. FIRST ANOTHER I SAY that being
of interest of this party the clarification of the facts of the present procedure,
requests the extension of the trial period based on the new evidence provided by
this part and thus in accordance with what is specified in article 77 of the LPACAP, without
prejudice to subsequent expansion and provision of as many documents as deemed appropriate.
interest, the following are requested: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE DOCUMENTARY. Consistent
in which the documents of such nature are deemed to be reproduced and authentic.
you have on file.

WITNESS: Written responses by legal entities: A) CaixaBank, to
to rule on the following issues: To confirm the charges of the
purchases and withdrawals made with the Unión Fenosa credit card as
as stated on pages 48 and 49 of the administrative file in the name of the
complainant from September 9, 2002 to December 1, 2006. B) Uni-
box, to rule on the following issues: To confirm that it was the
complainant herself who ordered the transfer from her current account to the account
letter from my client on June 27, 2011, as evidenced in document No. 2 ad-
together with this letter. For this reason, I REQUEST THE INSTRUCTOR that by collecting
acknowledging and accepting the interest and request of this party in clarifying the facts,
the evidence presented is accepted and carried out if the Agency so judges in a
new probationary period ordering what is necessary for its realization.

THIRTEENTH: Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of
the information and documentation submitted by the parties, have been accredited
the following facts:

PROVEN FACTS

1º.- In the present case, from the process followed up to now, two
Suspected GDPR violations:

- On the one hand, the respondent entity is demanding the payment of a debt by the
use of a credit card, which the claimant denies having contracted,
Therefore, the entity could be carrying out an illicit treatment of the data
claimant's personal

- On the other hand, the claimant alleges that, having contacted
the entity that is now demanding the payment of the debt, (PRA IBERICA),
requesting to exercise their right of access to the information they possess about it,
has not received any type of official response in this regard, and they continue to demand

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/47

the payment of the debt that denies being yours, so the entity could have
committed an infringement of the RGPD by not allowing access to the claimant.

2º.- At the request of this Agency, the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE,
S.A. stated that, on 10/04/2000, the claimant contracted, by telephone, a credit card
credit marketed jointly with the entity GAS NATURAL FENOSA, contributing
the contract sheet, which contains the personal data of the claimant and her
address, as well as the direct debit details, in an account belonging to
the IBERCAJA entity, but no other documentation is provided, such as
example, the contract signed by the claimant, a copy of the DNI, or the recording itself
phone, which could corroborate that the contracting of the credit card was
truly carried out by the claimant and not by a third party outside
that not even the contract sheet is signed by or authenticated by any
responsible.

This entity alleges in this regard that: “(…) given the age of the file, the
remaining documentation relating to the claimant could not be located (...)”,
but it does provide several documents that, when compared to each other, are
contradictory:

-

-

Printout of credit card charges made since 09/09/2002
(card activation date), until 12/13/2004. There are no charges
after said date.

The banking entity certifies that the return of the receipts of
the credit card passed to collection, from the months of February to December of
year 2006 (one year later), for a total nominal amount of XXX euros, but
does not certify or send a printout of the charges made on the card in this
period, justifying only that: “that, in the contractual relationship of the
credit card there were several non-payments of the debts which originated
various recovery processes to the claimant”. Not existing, therefore,
evidence that charges were made on the credit card, nor in the year 2005
nor in the year 2006. Nor is it certified when the credit card was canceled.
credit.

- The subsequent sale of said non-payment is certified, on 04/30/08, to the company

AKITV KAPITAL INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO A.G.

3º.- In the debt assignment agreement between SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE and
AKTIV CAPITAL, made public on 04/30/08, contains, among other provisions, the
following clause, to take into account:

“[…] V. That the volume of the Loan Portfolio, the heterogeneity of the
Credits that make it up and, in many cases, their age and/or their
origin of any of the credit entities merged with the
Assignors make it impossible for them to guarantee that the Credit Data
always be complete or correct. In particular, the Sellers do not rule out
that some of the Loans that appear in the Loan Portfolio are not in
actually existing credits or legally enforceable by the Sellers or not
are transmissible, so all of them must be considered at all

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/47

effects such as doubtful credits. For the same reasons, the documentation
Physical information related to the Credits that the Assignors have does not
is not necessarily complete or exhaustive, and there may be no documentation
physical with respect to some of the Credits. The Assignee knows and accepts these
Characteristics of the Credits, the Data of the Credits and the
physical documentation related to the Credits.

1.2. Exclusion of liability of the Assignors: (...) Additionally, after
the meetings between the Parties and the due diligence process carried out by the
Assignee, he knows and accepts that the Assignors do not guarantee that the
Data of the Credits are complete and exact, and that some of the Credits
may not exist for any reason (including prior payment), not be
legally enforceable by the Sellers or have their transferability restricted
(…)”.

4º.- On 01/12/15 the global transfer of assets and liabilities from the company was formalized
AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO AS, OSLO, BRANCH IN ZUG", broadcasting on
block all the portfolios acquired in Spain by universal succession of the first
entity in favor of "PRA IBERIA, S.L UNIPERSONAL".

5º.- The claimant received a letter dated 06/12/19, sent by PRA IBERIA,
SL where they inform her of the "debt she had with them as a consequence of the
acquisition of a debt portfolio from SANTANDER CONSUMER
FINANCE through AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO AS. The letter states that the
date of the first non-payment and that they claim it, was 02/01/06.

6º.- Given this information, on 06/24/19 the claimant sends a certified letter to PRA
IBERIA SL, requesting to exercise its right of access to the documentation held by the
entity, in relation to the alleged debt, since he denies that it is his.

7º.- On 08/07/19, the claimant submitted a document to this Agency where
informs that, “PRA IBERIA, is claiming a debt from me for a contract that
unknown. That until 2013 third parties have been doing
bank transfers in your name. That you have requested in writing, by telephone and
certified mail to PRA IBERIA information about this incident, but today,
I have not received an answer in any way, and they continue to claim the debt with
interests."

8º.- In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, dated 09/17/19, this Agency directed requests
information to the entity PRA IBERICA, SL. and the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER
FINANCE.

9º.- On 10/17/19, the claimed entity sent a Burofax to the claimant
informing her, among other things, that: - “On September 9, 2002, the
credit card in your name. - That they received two transfers whose origin
was a Santander Consumer account for payments made but that cannot be
indicate the origin of said transfer because they did not occur directly in their
accounts”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/47

10º.- Required from the entity IBERCAJA BANCO, S.A. to identify the owner of the
checking account where the credit card expenses were charged, it certifies
that said account remained open from 06/29/2000 to 12/21/2001,
claimant's name.

11º.- Of all the documentation and information compiled in this file,
The following circumstances stand out:

a).- The current account opened in IBERCAJA, where the receipts were uploaded
of the credit card was open only from 06/26/2000 to
12/21/2001, in the name of the claimant.

b).- On 09/09/2002 (9 months after the account was canceled in
IBERCAJA) the credit card was activated at the SANTANDER bank
CONSUMER, in the name of the claimant, including in the direct debit
bank the account opened at the time in IBERCAJA, which was already closed and
therefore out of use.

c).- The banking entity SANTANDER CONSUMER, only justify
charges on the credit card since 09/09/2002 (date of activation of the
card), until 12/13/2004. It does not justify charges after that date,
Nor does it justify when he proceeded to cancel the credit card.

d).- Notwithstanding the foregoing, SANTANDER CONSUMER affirms that the date of
first default was 02/01/2006 and the date of the last default was 12/10/2006,
but it does not justify the charges made in this period of time. These
Non-payments are produced 5 years after the account has been canceled
current in IBERCAJA.

e).- The claimed entity (PRA IBÉRICA) affirms that it received two transfers
of SANTANDER CONSUMES, which indicated having received them in the name of the
claimant, (dated 06/16/2008 for XXX € and dated 06/28/2011 for XXX
€.) but cannot justify their initial origin since they were produced
from the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER. For its part, the entity
SANTANDER CONSUMER affirms that: “given the age of the file, the
remaining documentation relating to the claimant could not be located,
since the claims derived from it are found, at the
date, prescribed”, therefore, it cannot be ensured that the transfers
made to pay the charges on the credit card were made
truly by the claimant as it denies.

12º Of the documentation provided in the period of allegations to the proposal of
resolution follows:

a).- In the period of allegations to the proposed resolution, the entity claimed,
(PRA IBERICA) presents a certificate issued by the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER
FINANCE, in which the following is stated verbatim:

“That, on April 30, 2008 and before the Madrid Notary Public, D. B.B.B.,
under protocol number XXX, the aforementioned credit right was assigned with

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/47

the operation number ***OPERATION.1 in favor of Aktiv Kapital Portfolio In-
clothing, A.G. (subsequently AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO AS, OSLO, SU-
CURSAL EN ZUG and currently PRA IBERIA, S.L.U.); company that holds the
current right as legitimate creditor of the assigned debt.

SECOND.- That, according to information contained in our systems, in the
credit operation number ***OPERATION.1, whose personal data consists
so currently anonymized, they appear as the latest address data
bank the following: Bank ***BANCO.1 Agency...: XXXX MOSTOLES -
***ADDRESS.1: ****XXXX. These data were provided by the client
by phone to activate your card.

Previously, at the time of hiring, that is, on 4/10/2000, the
current account provided by the client was the following: ***7095 corre-
relative to the entity Ibercaja.

THIRD.- That there is a payment from the client of the number of operations
***OPERATION.1 dated 05/27/2008 for an amount of XXX € which was
transferred to PRA IBERIA, S.L.U.

And for the record for the appropriate purposes, I issue this certificate in
Madrid on June 11, 2021”.

It also presents a transfer receipt received at the SANTANDER entity
whose outstanding data are: Date: 06/28/2011; Originator: A.A.A.; Entity Order-
nante: CAJA ESPAÑA DE INVERSIONES,C.A; Concept: NUM.REF. ***REFERENCE-
CIA.1 ;Amount: XXX euros; Beneficiary of the transfer: B. Santander

In this transfer receipt, there are several important data to take into account:
ta in this case:

a).- The references indicated in the “concept” section do not agree: for
one part, the credit reference that was transferred from SANTNADER FINANCE
CONSUMER to the entity AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO is identified with the
code "XXXXXXXX", while the reference indicated in the concept of the
transfer made by the claimant to Banco de Santander is, “XXXXXXXX”,
differing both references in the digit "Q" and "K".

b).- Neither in the certificate presented by the claimed entity, of the entity
SANTANDER FINACE CONSUMER, nor in the receipt of the transfer made
by the claimant to the entity Banco Santander, nothing is indicated that corroborates
that the claimant is the debtor of the non-payments made on the credit card
credit in 2006.

c).- As indicated in the transfer receipt, the claimant made it to fa-
favor of the entity B. Santander and not the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FI-
NANCE (entity that issued the credit card) nor to the entity AKTIV KAPI-
SUCH PORTFOLIO.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/47

I- Competition.

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the RGPD in
the art. 47 of LOPDGDD.

II- Response to the allegations to the Resolution Proposal.

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD, a vision of the denounced action that has been re-
reflected in the facts declared proven above reported. However, about the
allegations presented by the claimed entity, the following must be indicated:

 “Of the legality of the treatment. New facts. From account
A.- Second point:
 
current in which payments were debited and proof of payment made
by the complainant”:

In order to fully respond to this allegation, it should be remembered that, throughout
of the procedure it has been established that:

1º.- The entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE, S.A. stated that, on 04/10/2000,
the claimant contracted, by telephone, a credit card marketed jointly
with the entity GAS NATURAL FENOSA, providing, at the request of this Agency,
the contract sheet of said card, which contains the personal data of the
claimant and his address, as well as the direct debit details, in an account
belonging to the entity IBERCAJA, but without the signature of the claimant who
value the document. Nor is any other documentation provided, such as,
example, a copy of the DNI, or the telephone recording of said hiring, which could
corroborate that the contracting of the credit card was effectively carried out by
the claimant.

2º.- As justification for the above, the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE
alleged to this Agency that: “(…) given the age of the file, the remaining
documentation relating to the claimant could not be located (...)”, although if
provides a list of the charges made on the credit card, in the period
from 09/09/2002 (card activation date), until
12/13/2004.

3º.- The entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE states later that, there was
the return of credit card receipts passed to collection, of the months of
February to December 2006, for a total nominal amount of XXX euros, but not
certifies or sends a printout of the list of charges made on the card in said
period, that is, from 02/01/2006 to 12/31/2006.

The entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE did not provide any proof that
charges will be made on the credit card (listed with the date of charge, the amount and
the commercial establishment), of the year 2006, where it affirms that the
unpaid, as it proves that charges were made during the years 2002 to
2004.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/47

4.- SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE sold the card debt, the 452.59
euros, on 04/30/08, to the company AKITV KAPITAL INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO A.G.,
currently PRA IBËRICA SLU.

5.- In the period of allegations to the proposed resolution, the entity claimed,
(PRA IBERICA), presents a certificate issued by the entity SANTANDER
CONSUMER FINANCE, the text of which is indicated above.

From this last documentation provided by the claimed entity, data
to take into account for the resolution of the procedure:

a).- The certificate issued by the entity SANTANDER FINANCE CONSUMER,
textually indicates: “(…) credit operation number ***OPERATION.1,
whose personal data is currently anonymized (...)”, without identifying,
therefore, with name, surnames and DNI, in favor of the person who was granted the
indicated credit operation.

b).- The references indicated in the “concept” section do not agree: for
one part, the credit reference that was transferred from SANTNADER FINANCE
CONSUMER to the entity AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO is identified with the
code "XXXXXXXX", while the reference indicated in the concept of the
transfer made by the claimant to Banco de Santander, not to Santander.
der Finance Consumer, is, "XXXXXXX", differing both references in
the digit “Q” and “K”.

c).- Neither in the certificate signed by the entity SANTANDER FINACE CONSU-
MER, nor in the receipt of the transfer made by the claimant to the entity
Banco Santander, no reference is included to the claimant being the
debtor of the non-payments made on the credit card in 2006.

d).- As indicated in the transfer receipt, the claimant made it to fa-
favor of the entity B. Santander and not the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FI-
NANCE (entity that issued the credit card) nor to the entity AKTIV KAPI-
SUCH PORTFOLIO.

Therefore, it is not possible, based on the documentation provided by the entity claiming
da, identify the claimant with the ownership of the credit card during the year
2006.

B).- Third Point: “
 
my principal. Compliance with the criteria established by the
 

 Of the legality of the treatment and the diligent action of

    AEPD.

In this section, the following points should be clarified:

- If it is true that there is a "notarial certificate that proves the transfer of credit

signed with the assignor (Santander Consumer)”.

- It is not true that “an agent of Santander Consumer certifies that the operation
telephone service was contracted correctly, thus signing the approval of
the granting of the card” because in the issued certificate it appears verbatim:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/47

“(…) Said data was provided by the client by telephone for the
activation of your card (…)”.

- Only the use of the card is accredited from the year 2002 to the
12/13/2004, and not until 02/08/2006 as alleged by the entity claimed, therefore
that it is not possible to affirm that there was use of the card during the year 2006,
as such and as defended by the claimed entity.

-

-

The entity does not certify any charge on the card for the years 2005 and 2006, only
mind certifies receipts pending payment (numbers 41 to 51) for an amount
total nominal value of XXX euros for the months of February to December of the year 2006.
Furthermore, if this were true, that the last certified payment on the card was the
02/08/2006, as stated by the claimed entity, it is not logical that they claim
then receipts returned from said date until 12/01/2006.

The Santander Consumer entity states that there are receipts pending
payment, that is, receipt numbers 41 to 51 for a total nominal amount of
452.59 euros, the first of them being on 02/01/2006 and the last one on
01/12/2006, but does not provide a list of the charges made on the card (fe-
date, amount and commercial establishment) just as it does in the charges made
tuated during the years 2002 to 2004.

Regarding the fact that the claimant now indicates that, “(…) Therefore, she understands this
party that the documentation presented proves that my client has complied with diligence
people with the data protection regulations (...) ", you must disagree with this
affirmation then, keeping in mind that, it is up to the claimed entity the burden of
prove that you have obtained the consent of the owner of the data subject to processing
or that, at least, it has adopted the necessary measures required in the
diligent compliance, both in the collection of personal data and in the
subsequent treatment of the same, (considering (42) of the RGPD), the facts here
brought verify a serious lack of due diligence of the entity claimed in the
compliance with its obligations in terms of data protection, since a compliance
Diligent behavior in the management of the processing of personal data would be to demonstrate
that the principles relating to the processing of data collected in article
ass 5 of the RGPD. Circumstance that in this case has not occurred.

Well, in the case at hand, not enough evidence has been provided to confirm
prove that the claimant was the one who actually signed the credit card contract.
nor by the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE, which alleged at the time that:
“Given the age of the file, the remaining documentation related to the claimant
could not be located, since the claims derived from it are
are, to date, prescribed", nor by the entity PRA IBERIA, which alleges that the
The only data it has on the claimant are those provided by the entity SANTA-
NER CONSUMER FINANCE.

On the other hand, there is a clear lack of due diligence demonstrated by the regulatory entity.
claimed, in breach of the principle of accuracy (article 5.1d.), since no
have taken reasonable steps to promptly remove or rectify
Personal data that is inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which it is processed.
so, and this is so, because when the entity received the letter from the claimant on 06/26/19,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/47

requesting access to information and questioning the veracity of the debt, the
entity, far from showing due diligence, ignored said request, followed
demanding payment of the debt and it was not until he received a request for this
Agency, on 09/17/19, when, by burofax, he sent the claimant the information
that she had been requesting it for 3 months and 20 days.

The entity claimed defends itself by indicating that: “(…) they have been in
contact with the claimant to solve her doubts (...)”. However, it does not provide
proof concludes of having agreed to what was requested by the claimant before receiving the
requirement of this Agency.

C).- Fourth point:
 

 About the statute of limitations

These allegations cannot be taken into consideration because, as has been stated,
above, it has not been verified that the transfer made by the claim
on 06/28/2011 to the entity BANCO SANTNADER, outside for the payment of the debt
da in the credit card in question, because, first, the card is contracted
in a different entity, that is, in the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE
and not in BANCO SANTANDER, together with the fact that the references indicated in the two do-
documents do not match. On the one hand, the credit reference that was transferred from
SANTNADER FINANCE CONSUMER to AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO the code appears
“XXXXXXXX”, while the reference indicated in the concept of the transfer that
made by the claimant to BANCO SANTANDER appears: "XXXXXXXX", differentiating
both references in the digit “Q” and “K”
On the other hand, according to the information and documentation in the file,
The first news that the claimant has of the doubt that they are claiming her is on 06/12/19,
when he received a letter sent by PRA IBERIA, S.L. where they inform her of the
presumed debt that he had with them as a result of the acquisition of a
debt portfolio from SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE through
AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO AS, filing a claim with this Agency on
08/07/19, so, in this case, the prescription of the infraction does not fit as alleged
the claimed entity.

D).- Fifth point,
 

 “On the presumption of innocence of the claimed entity”,

Specify at this point that the extensive jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, as
to this fundamental principle, reaffirm to the claimed entity that said principle
imposes on the administration an action that could be summarized in, in the first place,
gar, in not pursuing generic complaints and avoiding investigations that, because they are sus-
tempted by claims lacking a minimum circumstantial support, could lead
I get unnecessary actions.

Therefore, the effectiveness of this principle unfolds when there is an absolute lack of
evidence or when those obtained are not charged or do not meet the due guarantees.
That is, in case of doubt, due to insufficient evidence, the accused will be favored,
(STC. 44/89, of February 20).

STS 1218/2004 of November 2 makes the following distinction between Presumption of
Innocence and the "in dubio pro reo" (Foundation of Law First):

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/47

(...) 1º A first of an objective nature that could be described as a verification of the existence
presence or not of true evidence, a phase in which in turn it would be necessary to differentiate two
different operations: a) specify whether, in carrying out the evidentiary proceedings,
have adopted and observed the basic procedural guarantees and b) specify whether, in addition,
Such evidentiary proceedings objectively suppose or contribute incriminating elements.
rivers or cargo.

2º A second phase of a predominantly subjective nature, for which it would be necessary to re-
to serve “strictu sensu”, the usual denomination of “assessment of the result or content
integral part of the evidence”, weighing conscientiously the various evidentiary elements,
on the basis of which the conscience of the Court is freely formed.

In the first phase the presumption of innocence would operate and in the second the principle “in
dubio pro inmate”. Thus, the presumption of innocence unfolds within the framework of the charge
evidence and supposes (STC. 31.5.85) that it is not the accused who corresponds to demonstrate
pretend that he is innocent in the face of the accusation against him, but that it is
who maintains it, who is responsible for accrediting the imputation through the corresponding
evidence, (...) that can objectively be considered as evidence for the prosecution: (...)

For its part, the “in dubio pro reo” principle, presupposing the prior existence of the
presumption of innocence, operates in the field of strict assessment of the
evidence, of the appraisal of the demonstrative effectiveness by the Court of instance to
who is responsible for his assessment to form his conviction about the truth of the facts
(art. 741 LECr.). In this same sense, we find the SsTS 277/2013 of February 13,
February, 936/2006 of October 10 and 346/2009 of April 2”.

This does not occur in the present case, because of the proven facts, indicated above-
Mind, it follows the existence of conclusive evidence that proves the existence
of infractions to the RGPD by the claimed party and, on the other hand, of the documentation
information provided by the parties involved in the process gather sufficient information
that enables a probative assessment of the infringement.

E).- Sixth point, “
 

 On the bankruptcy of the principle of typicity”.

At this point, the respondent entity acknowledges that "(...) my client answers late to
the claim of the complainant when understanding BY ERROR that it was already being
clarifying through telephone conversations (...)", but alleges that "(...) but
it cannot be judged that this error per se implies an IMPEDIMENT conduct or,
OBSTACULIZATION because it must be clarified that there has been no requirement
of the Agency nor has the complainant reiterated her request, simply my client
perceives its error in the information request letter sent by this Agency
because it is the first news that he receives after the request of the complainant and for the
who realizes the mistake made (…)”.

Well, the facts that occurred in the present case must be re-exposed:

1º.- On 06/24/19 the claimant sent a certified letter to the claimed entity where
requested to exercise the right of access recognized in article 15 of the RGPD. In
Said request indicated the following: “I beg you to give me a written answer as
as soon as possible at the following postal address: …”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/47

2º.- On 08/07/19, the claimant submits a document to this Agency indicating in the
same, among others, that "(...) I have requested in writing, by telephone and mail
certified to PRA IBERIA information on this incident, but to date, I have not
received an answer in any way, and they continue to claim the debt with
interests."

3º.- On 09/17/19, informs the claimed entity of the complaint
filed by the claimant in this Agency and requires her to report on
a number of aspects relating to the claim.

4º.- On 10/17/19 the claimed entity sends a burofax to the claimant with the matter
"Answer claim", where they indicate, among others: "Dear Mrs. Our:
We have received the claim with the reference indicated above from the Agency
Spanish Data Protection and, in response to it, we will detail
the information you request from us. We apologize in advance for not answering
formally because we mistakenly understood that both your claim and the
requested information was clarified in our telephone conversations (…)”.

5º.- The allegations put forward by the claimed entity to justify the delay in the
The answer to the request for access made by the claimant is that: “From the
05/17/2019 we are in contact with the claimant to resolve her doubts about the
card and payments made from it, this being the main reason for your
claim. Specifically, we bet as document number SEVEN one of the
conversations held with the claimant that, being diverted to her manager, did not
the recording continued, although it does prove that we are informing and clarifying
telephone with the claimant what she requests, for this reason, we understood
erroneously that we were answering all your questions personally and it was not
necessary to answer formally (…)”

According to article 12 of the RGPD, the data controller is obliged
to provide the interested party with all the information requested in accordance, in this case, with art.
article 15 of the RGPD. The information will be provided in writing or by other means, including
If applicable, by electronic means and only, when requested by the interested party,
The information may be provided verbally and as long as the identity is proven.
of the interested party by other means.

In the case that does not occupy, in the letter sent by the claimant, it was literally specified-
mind: "I beg you to give me a written answer as soon as possible in the following
postal address: …”. Situation that did not occur until the claimed entity
received notification from this Agency that the claimant had put in
knowledge of this Agency the facts.

Article 12.3 continues to indicate that: “The data controller shall provide the interested party with
information regarding their actions within a maximum period of one month from
receipt of the request.

Therefore, in this case, the respondent entity did not proceed to provide the claimant with
Keep the requested information up to 3 and a half months after requesting it

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/47

with the aggravating circumstance that it was made, even a month after knowing that the claim
had previously brought the facts to the attention of this Agency.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the performance of the entity in this process is
in accordance with the typified element established in article 72.1.k of the LOPDGDD
therefore, it has avoided contesting the exercise of the claimant's right and therefore has
prevented the claimant from knowing, in writing, all the information that she understood.
information about your personal data, answered only after knowing that
the facts had been made known to this AEPD.

It should be noted that the claimed entity still has not completed the point where it alleges
that: “3) My client provides one of the conversations held on 05/17/2019 with
the claimant that … ", so it remains impossible to take it into consideration
as claimed by the entity claimed.

F).- Seventh point:
 

 "Of the typification of the infraction and its prescription".

According to article 74 of the LOPDGDD, a minor infraction is considered to be prescribed after one year:
“The remaining infractions of a merely formal nature of the articles mentioned
in sections 4 and 5 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular,
the following: (...) c) Failure to respond to requests to exercise the rights established
two in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, unless it resulted from
application of the provisions of article 72.1.k) of this organic law.

According to article 72 of the LOPDGDD, it is considered very serious infractions and prescribed
will expire after three years, the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following: (...) k) The impediment
or the hindrance or repeated non-attention to the exercise of the rights established
two in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

Therefore, and based on what has already been stated in the previous section, the actions of the entity
claimed property must be considered included in the typified element established in the
Article 72.1.k of the LOPDGDD by preventing access to the claimant's information,
until he became aware that there was a claim filed with this Agency.
cia, thereby demonstrating a total lack of due diligence in the entity.

Therefore, it is not possible to take into consideration the arguments of the entity in the
which defends that the infraction committed is prescribed based on the application of article
ass 74 of the LOPDGDD, since the application of this article does not fit, but the application
of article 72.1.k) how this has been demonstrated.

G) Eighth point: “On the reduction of penalty amounts. application of the
 the new
principle of proportionality. Attention to the circumstances of the case and
 
You present evidence. subsidiarily

a).- Regarding: “the possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the
commission of the infraction, since there is no record of a police complaint, nor has the claimant
put in contact to be able to know your doubts or to be able to request more information”,
cannot be taken into consideration as it is proved that the claimant did try

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/47

contact the entity to have access to the existing information in the
entity, without responding to said request.

b).- Regarding: “the existence of a merger process by absorption subsequent to the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity. And so it has happened
with the assignment of credits from Aktiv Kapital to PRA Iberia”, cannot be considered
ration this allegation, since the claim is not filed before the merger
against AKTIV KAPITAL, but against the action carried out by PRA IBERICA.

c).- About: “the fact of having, when it is not compulsory, a pro-
data protection”, cannot be taken into consideration since the infractions committed
das have nothing to do with the existence or not of a DPD in the entity, even
could be considered as an aggravating circumstance to the extent that the
lack of due diligence of the entity in terms of data protection and one of the
essential functions of DPOs in companies is precisely to avoid this lack of
diligence.

d).- About: “the application of article 58.2.a) RGPD by the Agency consisting
in the warning, based on the principle of proportionality of sanctions”, not
can be taken into consideration, since the infractions committed by the entity together
with the aggravating circumstances applied, of the same relevance as other sanctions imposed.
by this Agency to other offenders with which the administrative precedent would be broken.
treatment.

On the new evidence presented, re-emphasise here, what was stated above-
tea
It has been verified, throughout the entire procedure, that:

the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE, S.A. stated that, on 04/10/2000, the
The claimant contracted, via telephone, a credit card marketed jointly
with the entity GAS NATURAL FENOSA, providing, at the request of this Agency,
the contract sheet of said card, which contains the personal data of the
claimant and his address, as well as the direct debit details, in an account
belonging to the IBERCAJA entity, but without the signature of the claimant. Either
provide any documentation, such as, for example, a copy of the DNI, or the recording
telephone contracting, which could corroborate that the contracting of the card
of credit was actually made by the claimant.

As justification for the above, the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE
alleged to this Agency that: “(…) given the age of the file, the remaining
documentation relating to the claimant could not be located (...)”, although if
provides a list of the charges made on the credit card in the period
between 09/09/2002 (card activation date) and 12/13/2004.

SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE affirms that the return of the
credit card bills passed for collection, from the months of February to December
of the year 2006, for a total nominal amount of XXX euros, but does not certify or send
printing of the list of charges made on the card in that period, that is,
from 02/01/2006 to 12/31/2006.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/47

The entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE does not provide evidence that
charged to the credit card (listed with the date of charge, the amount and the
commercial establishment), from the year 2006 that he affirms were unpaid, as he did
with the years 2002 to 2004. Nor is it certified when the card was canceled
credit.

In this transfer receipt, there are several important data to take into account:
ta in this case:

a).- The references indicated in the “concept” section do not agree: for one
part, the reference of the credit that was transferred from SANTNADER FINANCE CONSU-
MER to the entity AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO is identified with the code “XXXX-
XXXX”, while the reference indicated in the concept of the transfer made by the
claimant to Banco de Santander is, "XXXXXXXX", differentiating both references
cias in the digit “Q” and “K”.

b).- Neither in the certificate presented by the claimed entity, of the entity SANTAN-
DER FINACE CONSUMER, nor in the receipt of the transfer made by the claimant
to the Banco Santander entity, nothing is indicated that corroborates that the claimant is the
debtor of the non-payments made on the credit card in 2006.

c).- As indicated in the transfer receipt, the claimant made it in favor of
the entity B. Santander and not the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE (entity
entity that issued the credit card) nor to the entity AKTIV KAPITAL PORTFOLIO.

H).- About the testimonial requested,

It is considered that the documentation provided by the parties, including fiduciary entities,
is sufficient to be able to elucidate whether or not there is an infringement of the regulations
people in terms of data protection and this has been demonstrated throughout
this resolution proposal, based on the acts carried out by the entity claiming
in its lack of due diligence and in the evidence provided by the parties.
tes, incriminating the conduct reproached the entity. This is so because the pre
This sanctioning administrative procedure is initiated after having carried out the AEPD
an intense inspection work, which has been documented incorporated into the experience
tooth and which substitutes sufficient evidence for this instruction.

Notwithstanding, the foregoing, the already mentioned so many times, article 24.2 of the CE, applied
also in this case, it recognizes the right of the claimed entity “to use all
two means of evidence pertinent to his defense”, leaving it to his discretion to be able to
Present as many means of evidence as it deems pertinent throughout the procedure.
 
Therefore, the testimonial evidence requested by the claimed entity is considered not
is necessary in this case, rejecting the request for the practice of evidence by inne-
Cesaria, under the provisions of article 77.3 of the LPACAP.

In the present case, two violations of the RGPD are being claimed. On the one hand, it
denounced that the entity claimed has been demanding the payment of a debt by the
use of a credit card, which the claimant denies having contracted. For another

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/47

hand, it was also denounced that, having contacted the entity
claimed to exercise their rights of access to the information they possess about it
because he did not recognize the debt that was being claimed, he did not receive any type of
response in this regard until he filed a claim with this Agency.

Well, in this sense, the RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that
shall govern the processing of personal data and mentions among them that of "license"
tude, loyalty and transparency”. The precept provides that: “1. The personal data will be:
a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner with the interested party;”
         
For its part, article 6 of the RGPD, details in section 1 the cases in which
the processing of third party data is considered lawful: “1. The treatment will only be
I quote if it meets at least one of the following conditions: a) the interested party gave his consent
sentiment for the processing of your personal data for one or more specific purposes.
cifics; b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
third party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
(…)”

Bearing in mind that the burden of proving that it has
Obtained the unequivocal consent of the owner of the data object of treatment or
that, at least, it has adopted the measures required by diligent compliance with the
obligation imposed by the RGPD, both in the collection of personal data
as in the subsequent treatment of the same, a serious lack of diligence is confirmed.
ence of the entity claimed in the fulfillment of the obligations imposed by the
personal data protection regulations. Diligent compliance with
principle of legality in the treatment of third party data would require that the person in charge
of the treatment is in a position to prove it, (principle of proactive responsibility)
va), a situation that, until now, has not occurred, since the evidence presented
das, both by the entity SANTANDER CONSUMER FINANCE, and by PRA IBE-
RIA, are not conclusive that the claimant contracted the credit card and that
therefore, allow the processing of your personal data.

According to the evidence available at this time, the
The exposed facts suppose a violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD, having treated
the personal data of the claimant without legitimation.

For its part, article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the RGPD”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to be imposed in
the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance
with the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/47

-

The duration of the violation, taking into account the scope or purpose of the
treatment operation in question, as well as the damages caused to the
interested, (section a).

The facts object of the claim are attributable to a lack of diligence on the part of the
of the claimed entity, (section b).

- Basic personal identifiers, personal data,

(paragraph g).

-

The obvious link between the business activity of the claimed entity
and the processing of personal data of customers or third parties, (section k).

For its part, article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD establishes that, in accordance with the
seen in article 83.2.k) of the RGPD, it will be taken into account, as aggravating factors
of the sanction, the following:

- The continuing nature of the offence, (section a).

-

The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal data, (section b).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with res-
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 6.1 of the RGPD,
allows to set a penalty of 30,000 euros, (thirty thousand euros).

IV

Regarding the complaint made by the claimant when indicating that they were not attended to, for
part of the entity claimed its access rights, indicate that, as established by the
Article 12 of the RGPD: 1.- The data controller will take the appropriate measures
nas to provide the interested party with all the information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as
as any communication under articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to the treatment
information, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible way, with a language
clear and simple, in particular any information directed specifically at a child.
The information will be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by
electronic media. When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their rights in
under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph 2,
The person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to exercise their
rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you are not in
conditions to identify the interested party.

3. The data controller shall provide the interested party with information regarding their ac-
situations on the basis of a request under Articles 15 to 22, and, in any
In any case, within one month from receipt of the request. Said term
may be extended for another two months if necessary, taking into account the complexity
ity and number of requests. The person in charge will inform the interested party of any
of said extensions within a period of one month from receipt of the request, indicating
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/47

when the reasons for the delay. When the interested party submits the request by
electronic, the information will be provided by electronic means whenever possible, to
unless the interested party requests that it be provided in another way.

On the other hand, sections 1 and 3 of article 15 of the RGPD, on the right of ac-
process of the interested party, establish respectively that: 1. The interested party shall have the right
to obtain confirmation from the data controller as to whether they are being processed or not
personal data that concerns you and, in such case, right of access to personal data
and to the following information: a) the purposes of the treatment; b) the categories of
personal data in question; c) recipients or categories of recipients
to whom the personal data were or will be disclosed, in particular
recipients in third parties or international organizations; d) if possible, the term
foreseen for the conservation of personal data or, if this is not possible, the criteria used
lysed to determine this term; e) the existence of the right to request from the
know the rectification or deletion of personal data or the limitation of the treatment of
personal data related to the interested party, or to oppose such treatment; f) the right
Cho to file a claim with a control authority; g) when the data
data have not been obtained from the interested party, any information available on
about its origin; h) the existence of automated decisions, including the preparation of
profiles, referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, in-
significant training in applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
foreseen consequences of said treatment for the interested party.(...),

3. The data controller will provide a copy of the personal data subject to
treatment. The person in charge may receive for any other copy requested by the
charged a reasonable fee based on administrative costs. When the interest
the applicant submits the application electronically, and unless the applicant requests that
otherwise provided, the information will be provided in an electronic format for general use.
bad

In accordance with the available evidence, the exposed facts suppose
nen the violation of article 15 of the RGPD, in application of article 12 of the aforementioned
Regulation, since the entity did not act diligently by preventing access
to the information requested about your personal data, in a timely manner.

For its part, article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the
exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, in order to set the amount of the penalty to
impose in the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction according to
with the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/47

-

-

The duration of the violation, taking into account the scope or purpose of the
treatment operation in question, as well as the damages caused to the
interested, (section a).

The facts object of the claim are attributable to a lack of diligence
on the part of the claimed entity, (paragraph b).

- Basic personal identifiers, personal data,

(paragraph g).

-

The obvious link between the business activity of the claimed entity
and the processing of personal data of customers or third parties, (section k).

For its part, article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD establishes that, in accordance with the
provided for in article 83.2.k) of the RGPD, it will be taken into account, as factors
aggravating circumstances of the sanction, the following:

- The continuing nature of the offence, (section a).

-

The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal data, (section b).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 15 of the
RGPD, allows you to set an initial penalty of 30,000 euros, (thirty thousand euros).

Therefore, in accordance with the above criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose on the entity
claimed a total sanction of 60,000 euros (sixty thousand euros), for the infractions
tions of article 6.1) of the RGPD (30,000 euros) and 15 of the RGPD (30,000 euros).

v

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency
data protection law,

 :
RESOLVE
 

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity, PRA IBERIA, S.L. with CIF.: B80568769, a san-
30,000 euros (thirty thousand euros), for infringement of article 6.1) of the RGPD, res-
aspect of the illicit treatment of the personal data of the claimant and 30,000 euros
(thirty thousand euros) for violation of article 15 of the RGPD, regarding the lack of dili-
agency when facilitating access to information about the personal data of the
claimant.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity PRA IBERIA, S.L. and IN-
TRAIN the claimant on the outcome of the claim.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must make it effective
Once this resolution is executed, in accordance with the provisions of art.
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure Co-
Public Administrations (LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period that
points out article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal De-
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/47

decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 17
December, by depositing it in the restricted account Nº ES00 0000 0000 0000
0000 0000, opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the
Bank CAIXABANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in periods
do executive

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 82 of Law 62/2003, of December 30,
bre, of fiscal, administrative and social order measures, this Resolution is
will make public, once it has been notified to the interested parties. The publication is made
will be in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 1/2004, of December 22, of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection on the publication of its Resolutions.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure, and in accordance with the
established in articles 112 and 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may interpose
have, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection within a period of one month from the day following the notification
fication of this resolution, or, directly contentious-administrative appeal before the
Contentious-administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions
placed in article 25 and in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of the Law
29/1998, of 07/13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. Of being
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronicaweb/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

