

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing in the population register (Ministry of the Interior)



On the basis of the Office's control plan, the Office carried out an inspection of compliance with the obligations of the inspected person, the Ministry of the Interior, as the administrator of personal data processed in the population register. As part of the inspection, the Office also checked three initiatives, the content of which was related to the subject of the inspection. During the inspection, the Office focused mainly on the measures taken to secure personal data and on the implementation of corrective measures that the Office imposed on the inspected person during the inspection carried out in 2015.

The Office found that the access settings for authorized entities and their scope do not meet the requirements of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. and the controlled person thus violated the obligations set out in § 13, paragraph 1 of this Act (adoption of security measures). The Office also found a violation of the obligation stipulated in § 10 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (protection of private and personal life), because as a result of the procedure of the controlled person, there was an unauthorized intervention in the private and personal life of the complainant.

The Office did not impose remedial measures, as the inspected person carried out the remedial measures himself. Following the aforementioned findings, the Office initiated proceedings for an offense in the matter.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Bozena Čajková.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Inspection of personal data processing in the population register (Ministry of the Interior)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



