1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00358/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. and Mrs. B.B.B. (hereinafter, the claimants) dated 27
December 2019 they filed a claim(s) with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection. The claim is directed against the resident of the town C.C.C.
with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based
they are installation of a web cam in the window of the defendant's home,
oriented towards the transit area of the neighbors, without just cause.

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Doc. No. 1) that proves the
presence of the web-cam device in the window of the dwelling facing
public space.

SECOND. On 02/04/20, the events were TRANSFERRED to the
denounced, which states before this body that "it does not have cameras of
video-surveillance in his home”, although he does not deny that it had installed
the aforementioned web cam that appears according to documentary evidence in the window of his
property.

THIRD. On 10/09/20, the decision was made to admit the claim to the
appropriate legal effects.

FOURTH. On December 3, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH. On 01/25/21, a written statement was received from the respondent
arguing the following:

“I do not deny that there was a web cam on the shelf of my house but oriented
towards the sky and being turned off by the constant annoyances caused by the
claimant's pet and said web cam was put on to see if it would stop bothering
with the same (…)

To demonstrate all these violations, the web cam was placed on the shelf of my
window to demonstrate the commission of crimes reported by C.C.C. and that I never know
made no recording

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 2/27/19 a claim is received transferring as the main event the
presence of device (web-cam) oriented towards public space, without cause
justified.

Second. The data provided allows us to verify that the main responsible party is the
neighbor of the town Don C.C.C..

Third. It is proven that he has a web-cam connected to the
main computer, which directs at will towards public and/or private space
third parties without just cause.

Fourth. The defendant states that he did not record any image with the camera in
issue that put it punctually to intimidate her neighbor due to the inconvenience
that causes the pet of the same.

Fifth. It was not possible to verify that the device in question obtained images
(personal data) associated with the claimants, nor that they have been used in
some.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 12/27/19 by
means of which the presence of a web-cam in the
window of the accused pointed towards public space, without just cause.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides the following: The personal data will be:

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with
all the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory sign
informative, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment in your case of the data
of a personal nature.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

Also with this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of space
public, as this is the exclusive competence of the Security Forces and Bodies of the
Condition.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
should preferably be oriented towards private space, since it is considered
that this type of device can affect the privacy of third parties, which are seen
intimidated by it in the belief of being the subject of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install devices for obtaining

images of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant has a web-cam
that was oriented without just cause towards public space, affecting the right
of third parties.

A web cam is a device that allows capturing images of
third parties (personal data) which may be stored on a device
computer, so the facts, transferred are considered, are constitutive of the
described offense.

It should be noted that the respondent states that it "was not operational"
that is, that it has not recorded any image, although it contradicts itself by stating
that he put it "to demonstrate all those infractions".

To date the camera (web cam) has been removed from the exterior window
so that it has not been possible to verify that data has been processed with it
associated with an identified or identifiable person.

However, the behavior described should be "reproached" as the device is
described an effective instrument to affect the privacy of third parties, and may be
intimidated with it in the belief of being recorded without just cause.

Nor can it be considered an usus inocui in the field of relations of
neighborhood, because its use is objectively disturbing privacy, without the need
some.

The Judgment of the First Chamber of the Supreme Court of November 7, 2019
declares that the installation of a fake video surveillance camera, apparently

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

identical to other fully operative ones, is likely to restrict the freedom of
third parties.

In the same way, a web cam, as a camera with the possibility of recording
a hard drive is a device with which you can intimidate third parties, affecting the
matter that occupies you that is the "treatment of your data" without just cause and of
disproportionate way.

IV

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the same of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
most favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations is conditioned to the game of the test and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

v

According to the exposed facts it has not been possible to confirm that with the camera
(web cam) in question third-party data will be processed in an unjustified manner, reason
for which it proceeds File this procedure.

The respondent is warned that he cannot install a camera in the window of his
housing oriented towards public and/or private space of a third party without just cause,
This is not the ideal means to accredit the behaviors that it describes, being able to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

incurring both in a civil offense, even if it does not record, as well as in a criminal offense for
Affectation of privacy in case of repetition of the conduct.

The denouncing parties, in case of reiteration of the conduct, can transfer the
made to the local Security Forces and Corps (vgr. local police) or
take a photograph (s) with date and time that proves what has been stated, sending a new
Complain to this body for the appropriate legal purposes.

Finally, emphasis is placed on reminding the parties of the transcendence of the
rights at stake, having to settle their "personal" conflicts in the instances
timely, and must avoid instrumentalizing this body in matters remote
of data protection (vgr. SAN April 1, 2011, resource 2223/2010, in its
Legal Basis IV).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure since it is not proven that
the transferred conduct breaches data protection regulations.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to C.C.C. and REPORT the result
of the proceedings to the claimants Mrs. A.A.A. and Mrs. B.B.B.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

