Opinion 27/2021 on the draft decision of the Supervisory
Authority of North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany) regarding

the Processor Binding Corporate Rules of the Internet

Initiative Japan Group

Adopted on 2 August 2021

Adopted

Table of contents

1
2
3
4

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS................................................................................................................ 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 5
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS........................................................................................... 5
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................... 5

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having  regard  to Article 63, Article 64(1)(f)  and Article 47 of  the  Regulation  2016/679/EU  of  the
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the European Economic Area (hereinafter “EEA”) Agreement and in particular to
Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as  amended  by the  Decision  of  the  EEA  joint  Committee  No
154/2018 of 6 July 20181,

Having regard to Articles 10 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure.

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter the “EDPB”) is to ensure the
consistent application of the GDPR throughout the EEA. To this effect, it follows from Article 64(1)(f)
GDPR that the EDPB shall issue an opinion where a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) aims to
approve binding corporate rules (hereinafter “BCRs”) within the meaning of Article 47 GDPR.

(2) The EDPB  welcomes  and  acknowledges  the  efforts  the  companies  make  to  uphold  the  GDPR
standards in a global environment. Building on the experience under Directive 95/46/EC, the EDPB
affirms the important role of BCRs to frame international transfers and its commitment to support the
companies in setting-up their BCRs. This opinion aims towards this objective and takes into account
that the GDPR strengthened the level of protection, as reflected in the requirements of Article 47
GDPR, and conferred to the EDPB the task to issue an opinion on the competent SA’s (“BCR Lead”)
draft decision aiming to approve BCRs. This task of the EDPB aims to ensure the consistent application
of the GDPR, including by the SAs, controllers, and processors.

(3) Pursuant to Article 46(1) GDPR, in the absence of a decision pursuant to Article 45(3) GDPR, a
controller or processor may transfer personal data to a third country or international organisation only
if the controller or processor has provided appropriate safeguards, and on condition that enforceable
data subject rights and effective legal remedies for data subjects are available. A group of undertakings
or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity may provide such safeguards by the use
of legally binding BCRs, which expressly confer enforceable rights on data subjects and fulfil a series of
requirements (Article 46 GDPR). The specific requirements listed in the GDPR are the minimum items
BCRs shall specify (Article 47(2) GDPR). The BCRs are subject to approval from the competent SA, in
accordance with the consistency mechanism set out in Article 63 and Article 64(1)(f) GDPR, provided
that the BCRs meet the conditions set out in Article 47 GDPR, together with the requirements set out
in the relevant working documents of the Article 29 Working Party2, endorsed by the EDPB.

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA
Member States”.
2 The Working Party on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data instituted
by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC.

Adopted

3

(4) This opinion only covers the EDPB’s consideration that the BCRs submitted for the required opinion
afford appropriate safeguards in that they meet all requirements of Article 47 GDPR and WP257 rev01
of the Article 29 Working Party, as endorsed by the EDPB3. Accordingly, this opinion and the SAs’ review
do not address elements and obligations of the GDPR mentioned in the BCRs at issue other than those
related to Article 47 GDPR.

(5) WP257 rev.01 of the Article 29 Working Party, as endorsed by the EDPB, provides for the required
elements  for  BCRs  for processors, (hereinafter  “BCR-P”), including  the  Intra-Company  Agreement
where applicable, and the application form. WP265 of the Article 29 Working Party,4 as endorsed by
the EDPB, provides for recommendations to the applicants to help them demonstrate how to meet
the requirements of Article 47 GDPR and WP257 rev01. Additionally, WP265 informs the applicants
that any documentation submitted is subject to access to documents requests in accordance with the
SAs’ national laws. The EDPB is subject to Regulation 1049/20015 pursuant to Article 76(2) GDPR.

(6) Taking into account the specific characteristics of BCRs provided for by Article 47(1) and (2) GDPR,
each application should be addressed individually and is without prejudice to the assessment of any
other BCRs. The EDPB recalls that BCRs should be customised to take account of the structure of the
group of companies that they apply to, the processing they undertake, and the policies and procedures
that they have in place to protect personal data6.

(7) The opinion of the EDPB shall be adopted, pursuant to Article 64(3) GDPR in conjunction with
Article 10(2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure, within eight weeks after the Chair has decided that the
file is complete. Upon decision of the EDPB Chair, this period may be extended by a further six weeks,
taking into account the complexity of the subject matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

In accordance with the cooperation procedure as set out in WP263 rev.01, the draft BCR-P of the
Internet Initiative Japan Group (“IIJ”) were reviewed by the Supervisory Authority of North Rhine-
Westphalia as the BCR Lead SA (hereinafter the “BCR Lead SA”).

The BCR Lead SA has submitted its draft decision regarding the draft BCR-P of IIJ, requesting an opinion
of the EDPB pursuant to Article 64(1)(f) GDPR on 10 June 2021. The decision on the completeness of
the file was taken on 25 June 2021.

3 Article 29 Working Party, Working Document setting up a table with the elements and principles to be found
in Processor Binding Corporate Rules, as last revised and adopted on 6 February 2018, WP 257 rev.01.
4 Article 29 Working Party, Recommendations on the Standard Application for Approval of Processor Binding
Corporate Rules for the Transfer of Personal Data, adopted on 11 April 2018, WP265.
5 Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public
access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents.
6 This view was expressed by the Article 29 Working party in Working Document Setting up a framework for the
structure of Binding Corporate Rules, adopted on 24 June 2008, WP154.

Adopted

4

2 ASSESSMENT

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

The draft BCR-P of IIJ cover personal data transfers from group members established in the EEA to
group members established outside the EEA (Japan, United Kingdom, China, Indonesia, Singapore,
Thailand, Vietnam, United Sates of America), all of which acting as processors and being legally bound
by the BCRs as per the Intra-Group-Agreement (see Section 1.2 of the BCRs and Annex 1).

Concerned data subjects include suppliers, service providers and customers as well as their customers,
including in each case their contact persons (see Section 3 of the BCRs).

The draft BCR-P of IIJ have been scrutinised according to the procedures set up by the EDPB. The SAs
assembled within the EDPB have concluded that the IIJ draft BCR-P contain all elements required under
Article 47  GDPR  and WP257 rev01,  in  concordance  with the  draft  decision  of the BCR  Lead  SA
submitted to the EDPB for an opinion. Therefore, the EDPB does not have any concerns that need to
be addressed.

3 CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

Taking into account the above and the commitments that the group members will undertake by signing
IIJ’s Intra-Group Agreement, the EDPB considers that the draft decision of the BCR Lead SA may be
adopted as it is, since the draft BCRs -P of IIJ contain appropriate safeguards to ensure that the level
of protection of natural persons guaranteed by the GDPR is not undermined when personal data is
transferred to and processed by the group members based in third countries. Finally, the EDPB also
recalls  the  provisions  contained  within Article  47(2)(k)  GDPR  and  WP 257 rev.01  providing  the
conditions under which the applicant may modify or update the BCRs, including updates to the list of
BCRs group members.

4 FINAL REMARKS

This opinion is addressed to the BCR Lead SA and will be made public pursuant to Article 64(5)(b) GDPR.

According to Article 64(7) and (8) GDPR, the BCR Lead SA shall communicate its response to this opinion
to the Chair within two weeks after receiving the opinion.

Pursuant to Article 70(1)(y) GDPR, the BCR Lead SA shall communicate the final decision to the EDPB
for inclusion in the register of decisions which have been subject to the consistency mechanism.

In accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union C-311/187, it is the
responsibility of the data exporter in a Member State, if needed with the help of the data importer, to
assess whether the level of protection required by EU law is respected in the third country concerned,
in order to determine if the guarantees provided by BCRs can be complied with in practice, taking into
consideration the possible interference created by the third country legislation with the fundamental
rights. If this is not the case, the data exporter in a Member State, if needed with the help of the data

7 CJEU, Data Protection Commissioner v .Facebook Ireland Ltd and Maximillian Schrems, 16 July 2020, C-311/18.

Adopted

5

importer, should assess whether they can provide supplementary measures to ensure an essentially
equivalent level of protection as provided in the EU.8

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

8 See EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with
the EU level of protection of personal data and EDPB Recommendations 02/2020 on the European Essential
Guarantees for surveillance measures.

Adopted

6

