Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments from November 19th, 2020
 
 11/20/2020
 
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
The conference of the independent data protection authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) will meet on November 25th and 26th, 2020 in a video conference for the 100th meeting since its inception (DSK) will meet on November 25th and 26th, 2020 in a video conference for the 100th meeting since its inception. The Saxon Data Protection Officer Andreas Schurig will chair the meeting. Topics of the anniversary event will include: the inventory data information procedure for security authorities and intelligence services, the proposed abolition of secure end-to-end encryption in telecommunications, the still pending implementation of the ePrivacy Directive and the processing of personal data in the fight against pandemics.Schurig: "In the 42 In the years of its existence, the DSK has repeatedly dealt with controversial topics, from the 1983 census to handling the personal data of people who tested positive for corona during the current pandemic. It forms a significant counterweight to the ministerial conferences at the federal level. We have always been guided by the interest of the data subjects in being spared state or private interference with their fundamental freedoms and rights, or, if this was unavoidable, that such interference is at least proportionate.” Since the applicability of the General Data Protection Regulation from As of May 25, 2018, one focus of the DSK is on supporting the German representatives in the European Data Protection Committee. Furthermore, the DSK deals intensively with the digitization of the economy and administration. For example, it advises the IT Planning Council, the central committee for cooperation between the federal and state governments in information technology. The DSK usually meets twice a year. It summarizes its findings in non-legally binding resolutions, decisions, guidance and application notes. Its addressees are the legislature, the public as well as private and public officials. Recent examples include the resolution on the digital sovereignty of public administrations (September 22, 2020), the guide to video conferencing systems (October 23, 2020) or the resolution on the use of thermal imaging cameras or electronic temperature recording in the context of the corona pandemic (September 10, 2020 ). The DSK is supported by its specialist working groups, e.g. B. the working groups "credit agencies", "employee data protection", "health and social affairs", "justice", "security", "statistics" or "tax administration". For example, the "Technology" working group prepared the above Guide to video conferencing systems. The first DSK took place on December 7, 1978 under the Hessian presidency. The presidency changes annually - usually in alphabetical order of the federal states and the federal government. Further information can be found on the DSK homepage: https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/Demands from Mr. Andreas Schneider, press spokesman for the Saxon data protection officer , 0351 – 85471-120; andreas.schneider@slt.sachsen.de
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 Press release: Data protection conference meets for the 100th time
 
 276KB
 