1/5

- File No.: EXP202101897

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On August 22, 2021, he entered this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection written presented by D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the part
claimant), through which he makes a claim against STAR PROP
PATRIMONIAL, S. L. with NIF B05380993 (hereinafter, the claimed party), for the
installation of a video surveillance system located at ***ADDRESS.1, with
indications of a possible breach of the provisions of the regulations for the protection of
Personal data.

The reasons that support the claim and, where appropriate, the documents provided
by the claimant are as follows:

The claimed party has installed four cameras on the façade of its establishment
video surveillance that, due to their location and orientation, are likely to capture the
public highway, without the mandatory administrative authorization for it.

The documents provided are:

- Two photographs showing the location and orientation of the
video surveillance cameras.

SECOND: Prior to the admission for processing of this claim, it is
transferred to the claimed party, on September 13, 2021 and reiterated on
September 2021 (refused on November 8, 2021), in accordance with the
established in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter,
LOPDGDD).

There is no response from the claimed party.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, dated November 29, 2021.

FOURTH: On March 4, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 5.1.c) of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR),
typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a pleading in which, in summary,
stated that:
On the cause that has motivated the incidence.
Appearance of being able to capture the public road, since the cameras are installed
externally. In no case do these cameras focus on the public thoroughfare, in the way that
that are placed focus from above towards the entrance of Star Prop Patrimonial
(hereinafter, Star) and its crystals, only people who are going to
access the venue. Due to the elevated placement and angle, no image would be captured
recognizable from people passing by on the street.
As for the informative sign, it is also clearly placed next to the
camera.
On March 30, 2022, Star receives a visit from local police officers, who may
Check how the facilities and cameras are not working and that the
local is not yet open to the public. They also note how the cameras, due to their
angle of placement could not capture recognizable images of passers-by without
intention to enter the premises and that the sign is placed next to it.
On March 31, Star presents a letter to the City Council with photographic detail and
documentary of the adequacy of video surveillance cameras.

SIXTH: On July 1, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing
that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency archive the
claim filed against STAR PROP PATRIMONIAL, S.L., with NIF
B05380993, for a violation of Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claiming party states in its claim that the claimed party
has installed four video surveillance cameras on the façade of its establishment
which, due to their location and orientation, are likely to capture the public thoroughfare, without
the mandatory administrative authorization for it is recorded.

SECOND: The claimed party, in the allegations to the Commencement Agreement of this
Sanctioning Procedure, indicates that in no case do these cameras focus on the road
public, the way they are placed they focus from above towards the entrance
of Star Prop Patrimonial (hereinafter, Star) and its crystals, would only be captured
the people who are going to access the premises. Because of the elevated placement and angle, it will not
would capture a recognizable image of people passing by on the street.
As for the informative sign, it is also clearly placed next to the
camera.
On March 30, 2022, Star receives a visit from local police officers, who may
Check how the facilities and cameras are not working and that the
local is not yet open to the public. They also note how the cameras, due to their

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

angle of placement could not capture recognizable images of passers-by without
intention to enter the premises and that the sign is placed next to it.
On March 31, Star presents a letter to the City Council with photographic detail and
documentary of the adequacy of video surveillance cameras.
 

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

The claimed party states that in no case do the cameras focus on public roads,
the way they are placed they focus from above towards the entrance of Star
Prop Patrimonial (hereinafter, Star) and its crystals, would only be captured at
people who are going to access the premises. Because of the elevated placement and angle, it will not
would capture a recognizable image of people passing by on the street.
The informative sign is clearly placed next to the camera.
On March 30, 2022, Star receives a visit from local police officers, who may
Check how the facilities and cameras are not working and that the
local is not yet open to the public. They also note how the cameras, due to their
angle of placement could not capture recognizable images of passers-by without
intention to enter the premises and that the sign is placed next to it.
On March 31, Star presents a letter to the City Council with photographic detail and
documentary of the adequacy of video surveillance cameras.

It should be remembered that "the data that is processed through the
video surveillance will be processed for the purpose that motivated the installation of the
itself and which is linked to guaranteeing the safety of people, goods and
facilities".

Having examined the allegations of the defendant, it can be concluded that the chambers
obtain images of the area proportional to the façade of the establishment, in what
essential for its safety.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

II

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the charges has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in them of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
way more favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning, and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of ius puniendi, in its various manifestations, is conditioned to the
game of evidence and an adversarial procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charges or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the accuser, without
that no one is obliged to prove their own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the body
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the penal system, and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TC 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right, in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the set of evidence and a procedure
contradictory in which one's positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no sanction may be imposed based on the
guilt of the accused, if there is no probative activity that, in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TC Auto 3-12-81).

IV.

In accordance with the foregoing, it is considered appropriate to order the ARCHIVE of this
procedure as the commission of any administrative offense has not been accredited
in the matter at hand.

The parties are reminded that this Agency should not be instrumentalized in
issues outside its jurisdictional framework, owing the rest of the issues, in its
case, be transferred to the pertinent judicial instances, where they may
present the questions they deem necessary.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure, since there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction within the framework of the regulations
in force regarding data protection.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to STAR PROP PATRIMONIAL, S.L.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

938-120722

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

