 

The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

 
PRESS RELEASE

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen
 

Bremerhaven, August 16, 2022

Control of the LfDI causes a stop to inadmissible publications of personal
gene bankruptcy data
 
At the urging of the Bremen State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI)
Law firms entrusted with insolvency administration have worked to ensure that the search mask in the
the digital creditor information system they use was reprogrammed in compliance with data protection regulations
became.

In connection with a complaints procedure, the LfDI became aware that
the data of the insolvency debtors are unconditionally public on the websites of the law firms
were accessible. The LfDI then checked the publication of this data in the creditor
information systems of the most popular insolvency law firms operating throughout Germany located in
Bremen. In doing so, she presented the data protection violations due to the lack of a sufficient legal basis
publications. The law firms concerned were mostly cooperative and effective
successfully approached the software provider. The adapted software is now also being used nationwide by
non-verified law firms used.

From now on, the data of the insolvency debtors can be found in the publicly accessible creditor
information systems of those insolvency law firms that use the software of the provider concerned
contact, will only be asked if their first and last name, the insolvency court and the
court file numbers are entered into the search mask.

The Bremen State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Dr. summer, shows
satisfied that the technical solution achieved overcomes the unlawful publications identified
gene prevented in the future: "Once again it shows that in a digitized world data protection through
Technology is the be-all and end-all. Insolvency law firms are fundamentally legally obliged to
information systems that contain the data of insolvency debtors. This must
of course in compliance with data protection regulations. This includes, in addition to the restricted search
availability of the personal data also that the statutory deletion periods are observed.
We will also check this in the future, in particular because the publications of these
data can mean significant economic stigma for those affected."

Contact/enquiries:

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-2010

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information • Arndtstraße 1 • 27570 Bremerhaven

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de

