1/14

 Procedure No.: PS/00250/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The inspection actions are initiated by the receipt of a letter of
AAA claim (hereinafter, the claimant), in which it states that they have
caused improper access to his medical history by a worker of the
Extremadura Health Service (hereinafter SES), with professional category of
nurse. The accesses are made without the authorization of the claimant and without the mediation
a relationship that justifies it.

The complainant adds that the improper accesses are perfectly identified in
the Certificate of access to the clinical history, issued on 08/14/2020 by the Management of the
Badajoz Health Area of the Extremadura Health Service (SES) in response to the
official letter issued by the Court of Instruction No. 2 of Badajoz, in which there are 5
accesses produced between 10/02/2007 to 07/15/2019. Indicates that more accesses are missing
undue, which are pending obtaining by the Court.

Relevant documentation provided by the claimant:

-Cars issued by the Investigating Court No. 2 of Badajoz admitting for processing
complaint for revealing secrets and agreeing to practice evidence.

-Certificate of access to the clinical history held in the information system of the
Claimant's SES dated 08/14/2020.

SECOND: In view of the notified facts and the documents provided by the
SES, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts described
in the previous sections, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the
established in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), having knowledge of the following
ends:

 BACKGROUND

Date on which the claimed events took place: July 15, 2019

Claim entry date: October 13, 2020

Complainant: A.A.A. (the claimant)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

Claimed: EXTREME HEALTH SERVICE (SES)
INVESTIGATED ENTITIES

EXTREME HEALTH SERVICE, with NIF S0611001I, and with address at Avda. de
the Americas 2, 06800 Merida, Badajoz.

RESULT OF THE INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

On 11/12/2020, the claim was transferred to the SES within the framework of the
reference actions E/9118/2020. The transfer document was collected on the day
11/23/2020 according to your acknowledgment of receipt. After the granted period, on 02/10/2021
resolution is issued admitting the claim and urging the present actions of
inspection.

On 02/16/2021, information and documentation on the events was requested from the
SES, not having received a response as of the date of preparation of this report. The
The request was collected on 02/22/2021, according to acknowledgment of receipt. Attached to
request made the claim transfer document issued
above, indicating that there is no answer to it.

In the request made, the following information was requested from the SES:

1.- Copy of the report prepared and supporting documentation in relation to the
facts, which will contain the following aspects:

1–1. Detailed specification of the causes that have made the events possible.

1–2. Detailed description of the actions taken in order to minimize
adverse effects and for the final resolution of the incident, indicating the date and
time of the measures taken.

1-3. Measures taken to prevent similar incidents from occurring,
dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify its effectiveness.

2.- Regarding the security of the processing of personal data previously
to the facts:

2-1. Documentation accrediting the Risk Analysis that has led to the
implementation of security measures and copy of the Evaluations of
Impact, if any.

2-2. Detail those technical and organizational measures adopted to
guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risks detected with
in relation to the accesses by the health personnel to the clinical records of the
patients. Security policy adopted by the entity in relation to it.

However, on 04/05/2021 a reply was received from the SES to the transfer
carried out on 11/12/2020 within the framework of the reference actions E/09118/2020, in
the following terms:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

"YO.

ABOUT THE BACKGROUND

The aforementioned letter requests this Public Administration to rule on
a claim received by the citizen -the claimant- on the 13th of
October 2020.
  
In said communication, it is requested:

Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated

The decision made regarding this claim.
In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to



22 of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.

the claim.
Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of

similar incidents, dates of implementation and controls carried out to
check its effectiveness.
Any other that you consider relevant.

In this sense, this document complies with said request,

providing in Annex 1 the communications with the claimant and, in the rest of the
sections of this document, the information requested by the AEPD.

ABOUT THE ACCESS CONTROLS ALREADY ESTABLISHED IN THE

II.
EXTREME HEALTH SERVICE
 
The Extremadura Health Service (hereinafter, SES) is an autonomous organization of
administrative nature, dependent on the Department of Health and Dependency of the
Junta de Extremadura, which is entrusted with exercising the powers of
administration and management of services, benefits and health programs that govern your
operation by the national and regional regulations that apply to it.

In this sense, the Law of the Autonomous Community of Extremadura 3/2005, of 8
July, of health information and autonomy of the patient regulates in its article 35.3 the
the patient's right to access and obtain copies or certificates of the
documents that are part of your clinical history, such as "knowing in any case who has
accessed your health data, the reason for access and the use that has been made of
they". Well, regarding the exercise of this right, which has been requested by the
claimant, it cannot be inferred from the documentation provided that there has been
non-compliance on the part of this Administration because, in plain view, this
information is in the hands of the complainant.

Translated this right to the information system that supports the clinical information
of patients in the Extremadura Health Service, it should be noted that the execution
Effectiveness of this right to know who and for what is accessing the Clinical History,
translates into the necessary existence of a relationship that legitimizes the access of the
health professional to a certain Clinical History. For this reason, when accessing the
History of a patient currently being treated at the workplace
clinic (be it Hospitalization, Outpatient Consultations, Functional Tests, Hospital of
Day, Operating Room...), the computer system automatically understands that the reason
of access is Welfare, and this is reflected in said system. However, this is not a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

automatic process, but the system only allows access to records of
patients who are either under active treatment or have an appointment on the agenda
of the professional or, well, they belong to the patients assigned to them in their quota.

When Medical History is accessed by searching for a patient (not
selecting it directly from a job list), the system forces you to choose a
access reason from among those configured for each profile. In this
In this sense, the following will appear to a specialist in Specialized Care:

The Patient Management reason is selected when access to the History

relates to an action to be performed on a patient that is not
is in the Clinical Workstation at that time, such as consultation or
review of documentation, preparation of reports, prior preparation of
consultation or surgical intervention, review of clinical orders and citations...

The Research Study motif is selected, as its own name

indicates, when access to medical history is related to work of
research in which that patient is included.

The DCL Request reason will be used when accessing the History is made

to respond to a Request for Clinical Documentation from the
patient or an authorized person.

The reason Occupational Incapacity is only available for profiles of

Inspection and they will select it when the access to the History is related to
a patient's work problem.

Access ONLY to the Patient Agenda is not a reason for access to the

Record; is the name with which access to the Agenda is identified
in the log of records of accesses to the Patient Agenda.

However, even if this access filter has been set, this does not imply that the
access is total, since each of the reasons that would legitimize access and that
just exposed does not imply unrestricted access to clinical information.
For this reason, each of the accesses is accompanied by access restrictions, since
that total access to health information would not make sense when the reason
justifies access is an administrative reason.

In this way, the public health regulations of Extremadura by which the SES is governed,
It is a regulation that offers greater rights to citizens with respect to their
clinical information; this with the recognition of the right to know who has
access to your health information. The exercise of this right, as well as the guarantee
of the confidentiality of the health information processed in the SES becomes effective
through access controls to clinical information.

Therefore, it can be inferred that the accesses to which the complainant refers occurred
fulfilling the requirements of legitimacy of access that emerge from the
obligations of the data protection regulations and those imposed by
internally from the Extremadura Health Service. Thus, in the SECOND Fact
used as an argument, the idea that, as pointed out, the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

access was made taking advantage of her "professional category of nurse", since,
had the situations described in this section not occurred, access would not have been
possible. Therefore, the argument used that
produced an access “without mediating between them a care relationship of
nurse/patient” given that the system requests access to clinical information
the existence of a reason that legitimizes access.

Likewise, the arguments described in Fact
THIRD, where the accesses made by Mrs. B.B.B. are noted, since
all accesses to the information should have been, and were, motivated by one of the
the previously foreseen and detailed scenarios.

ABOUT THE FORUM

III.
  
This part does not seek to question the authority of the AEPD, nor the information
provided by the complainant; however, the SES in its responsibility does not consider
opportune to deal with complaints or requests that do not start from a solid base. In this
sense, the FIRST Fact of the brief presented by the complainant refers
to facts that, well, should be understood as subjective or, at least, hardly
objective, such as the exercise of "strict control over life and person"
that did not allow the complainant "to lead a normal life and rebuild his life
sentimental".
  
As it is not objective information, the SES considers that it should not rule on
this sense and that, rather, corresponds to another area, specifically to the organs
judicial, establish whether the facts are as reported. understand, then,
that there is a spirit of this Administration to collaborate, as long as it is
possible, but it is understood that the facts denounced have to do with
actions or omissions typified in the Penal Code on which the SES cannot
do nothing more than collaborate with the judicial bodies that decide them.

Defined the legitimacy of access to a patient's information (the complainant)
by a worker of the public health system (the defendant), given that
without the existence of said legitimacy, access would be technically impossible, the SES
understands that the reported situation must wait until it has the status of
Proven Fact (understood as the account of events subject to prosecution
that the judicial body has considered true). This is because it is also understood that
the facts denounced do not correspond to a breach of the regulations
of data protection of the SES as Responsible for the Treatment if not, rather
as a crime (which could well be classed as revealing secrets) committed by
a person, yes, a worker of the SES, in a private sphere in which the SES
as an employer it has no scope.

Yes, mediating a sentence that establishes the reported facts as facts
tested, having the SES knowledge of them, the measures will be taken
timely internal measures based on the Internal Regime as described in the
legal notices of the logins of the users of the information system.
Until that moment, the SES understands that this procedure must be filed
and, in the event of a ruling favorable to the accused, notify the SES so that
that the corresponding internal sanctions be established.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

ON THE COMPLIANCE WITH THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE SES AS

 IV.
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TREATMENT

On the other hand, regarding the obligations of the Extremadura Health Service, such as
responsible for the treatment, and in coordination with what is stated at the beginning of the
Second allegation (II), the SES has been fulfilling its obligations as
responsible for the Treatment regarding the requests made by the complainant. I know
pointed out in the aforementioned allegation the existence, as a result of the legislative development of Extremadura
of a right to “know who accesses clinical information” and, view the information
provided by the complainant, it is understood that the SES has complied with said
obligations.

A different question is, if the denouncer understands that the person denounced has
breached its confidentiality obligations and, if so, once it is shown
as a proven fact, you can go to the SES so that the necessary measures can be taken.
timely.

ON THE MEASURES ALREADY APPLIED BY THE SES

v.
  
Prior to becoming aware of the complaint being forwarded, the SES, in the field of
its proactive responsibility had already taken measures that guarantee the
confidentiality of information.

(1)
Access control: access to clinical information of patients in the
Extremeño Health Service is only given when the control standards of
access;

a.
Firstly, information access control is segregated into
function of the professional role of the information system, that is, only those
who, due to their functions and obligations, must have access to clinical information
and, within these, depending on the purpose, you have access to all or part of said information.
information.
  
b.
Being legitimized to access clinical information by the professional role, the
access to citizens' data is not free for users, having to mediate
a relationship that legitimizes access to specific data, namely, being part of the
"quota" of the health professional, having him quoted on the agenda or being in a
active treatment. If these circumstances do not occur, access is not possible.

c.
Granted, where appropriate, access having given the two circumstances
above, this is not necessarily full access or access to History
Complete clinic since the accesses are defined for specific purposes and
these, in turn, have defined what information they give access to based on said purpose.
 
We speak, therefore, of a double legitimation based on (1) the professional role and (2) the
purpose of access and, added to the need for the existence of a reason that
legitimize access.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

 (two)
Legal notice at the beginning of the session in which users are reminded that the
information that is accessed is confidential and should only be treated with the
purpose that legitimizes access.
Uses other than the above purposes are considered inappropriate and could
considered labor misconduct or, where appropriate, a crime and lead to the initiation of proceedings
in the corresponding legal field.

“[…] It is contrary to good faith to attempt to access information for which there is no
has permissions or privileges or that is not directly related to their
functions, as well as filtration of any type of data, especially of character
personal, outside the corporate network.

In this sense, the user of the computer system […] knows the responsibilities
established in the Criminal Code, in the Data Protection regulations and in the rest
Spanish legislation on illicit use, contrary to morality, good faith and the
customs of computer tools, without prejudice to the responsibility
derived from the applicable internal regulations.

In order to guarantee compliance with the security policy, the SES may
monitor communications and/or files received/sent by users via
through the resources and systems of the entity in the event that there are suspicions
founded that resources are being misused. […]”

The acceptance of this legal notice is mandatory to be able to access the system of
information.
 
(3) Training pills, reminders, circulars... regarding the duties of secrecy
and confidentiality, security advice and the like that, from the Subdirectorate of
Information Systems together with the figure of the Data Protection Delegate
launched to all users of the system, as well as other resources accessible from the
"SES portal" to which all users of the information system have access
of the SES.

THIRD: On May 26, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD, Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Once the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure has been notified, the
SES, as the person in charge, has not presented arguments.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is proven that a third party other than the claimant agreed
unduly to his clinical history in the SES, on several occasions without
the SES intervened to prevent it once the incident was known.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

SECOND: The cause that caused the improper access was the lack of measures
technical and organizational systems implemented in the information and control system of
SES accesses.

THIRD PARTY: It is stated that an alien third party had knowledge of the data of the
claimant in the clinical history of the SES categorized as special
according to art. 9 of the GDPR.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Yo

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD establishes the following:

II

“Article 5 Principles relating to the treatment

1. The personal data will be:
(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational structures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is proven that the personal data of the claimant
relating to his medical history that appear in the SES information system were
improperly accessed by a third party, violating the principles of
integrity and confidentiality, both established in the aforementioned article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Article 32 of the RGPD, security of treatment, establishes the following:

III

1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

 a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

 b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and

permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

  c) the ability to restore availability and access to data

quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

 
 d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

 
2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data (The underlining is from the AEPD).

Recital 75 of the RGPD lists a series of factors or assumptions associated with
risks for the guarantees of the rights and freedoms of the interested parties:

“The risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, serious and
variable probability, may be due to the processing of data that could cause
physical, material or non-material damages, particularly in cases where
that the treatment may give rise to problems of discrimination, usurpation of
identity or fraud, financial loss, reputational damage, loss of
confidentiality of data subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of the
pseudonymization or any other significant economic or social damage; in the
cases in which the interested parties are deprived of their rights and freedoms or are
prevent exercising control over your personal data; In cases where the data
treated personalities reveal ethnic or racial origin, political opinions, religion
or philosophical beliefs, militancy in trade unions and the processing of genetic data,
data relating to health or data on sex life, or convictions and offenses
criminal or related security measures; In cases where they are evaluated
personal aspects, in particular the analysis or prediction of aspects related to the
performance at work, economic situation, health, preferences or interests
personal, reliability or behavior, situation or movements, in order to create or
use personal profiles; in the cases in which personal data of
vulnerable people, in particular children; or in cases where the treatment
involves a large amount of personal data and affects a large number of
interested.”

In the present case, of the investigation actions carried out, the selection
of the reason for accessing the clinical history of a SAS patient is not verified with the
access profile of the user, leaving, consequently, access to the information to
the discretion of the accessing user.

Therefore, as a consequence of the lack of implementation of technical measures and
adequate organizational rules that are mandatory for Public Administrations
as indicated in RD 3/2010, which regulates the National Scheme of
Security (ENS), has caused access by a third party outside the data
housed in the clinical records information system of the SES. It does not contain the
performance of the mandatory risk analysis and, where appropriate, impact assessment act
on the treatment of health data of SAS patients. It is also not stated that
the SAS has implemented a process of verification, evaluation and continuous assessment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

IV

of the effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

The actions carried out show the absence of security measures
both technical and organizational, with which the SES had
carries out treatment operations in relation to the health data of the records
clinical. Nor is there evidence of the adequacy of the processing operations of the SES to the
National Security Scheme at the time of improper access.

The consequence of this implementation of deficient security measures was the
Exposure to a third party outside of personal data relating to the health of the
claimant. That is, the affected party has been deprived of control over their data
information related to your medical history.

It should be added that, in relation to the category of data to which the third person
outside has had access, they are in the category of special according to what
provided in art. 9 of the RGPD, a circumstance that supposes an added risk that
must assess in the risk management study and that increases the degree requirement
of protection in relation to the security and safeguarding of the integrity and
confidentiality of these data.

This risk must be taken into account by the data controller, who must
establish the necessary technical and organizational measures to prevent the loss of
control of the data by the data controller and, therefore, by the data controllers.
holders of the data that provided them.

Article 83.4.a) of the RGPD, states the following:
(…)

v

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11,

25 to 39, 42 and 43”.

Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, states the following:
(…)

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”;

Article 76 of the LOPDGDD under the heading "Sanctions and corrective measures",
points out the following:
 

1.
The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the criteria of
graduation established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

1.
It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when
appropriate, of the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

Article 71 of the LOPDGDD establishes, under the heading "Infractions" the following:
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 constitute infractions.
and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

SAW

It establishes article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious”, the following:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article
72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD transcribed above.

It establishes article 73 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered
serious” the following:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article 73 concur.
section f) of the LOPDGDD transcribed above.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7th

12/14

Establishes Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, in
Chapter III on the "Principles of the power to impose penalties", in article 28
under the heading “Responsibility”, the following:

"1. They may only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to
to act, the affected groups, the unions and entities without legal personality and the
independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for them
title of fraud or guilt”

Lack of diligence in implementing appropriate security measures
with the consequence of breaching the principle of confidentiality, constitutes the
element of guilt.

viii
Article 58.2 of the RGPD, states the following:

2. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
 (…)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;

For its part, the Spanish legal system has chosen not to penalize
imposition of an administrative fine on public entities, such as the SES, such as
It is indicated in article 77.1. c) and sections 2, 4, 5 and 6 of the LOPDDGG:

<<1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.>>

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE EXTREME HEALTH SERVICE, with NIF S0611001I,
for the infringement of Article 32 of the RGPD typified in Article 83.4.a) of the RGPD the
sanction of WARNING, and for the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, the sanction of WARNING.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the EXTREME DEPARTMENT SERVICE
HEALTH.

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

938-131120

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

