

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the processing of personal data of new insured persons (UOOU-05364/20, UOOU-00343/21)
Public health insurance companies


In 2021, the Office carried out two inspections of health insurance companies, which focused on the processing of personal data related to the registration of insured persons. The inspection at the first health insurance company was initiated on the basis of suggestions and complaints from persons who stated that they had been illegally registered without their knowledge as insured persons of this health insurance companies. As part of the inspection, the unauthorized "re-registration" of four persons was checked. The mentioned persons only found out about it at the time when the original health insurance company informed them that they were re-registered with the controlled person or at the time when they received written information that they were newly registered with the controlled person. Along with the above information, they also received a new European Health Insurance Card. They did not know about the re-registration above and did not sign the applications for registration with the inspected person. From the point of view of the rules for the processing of personal data, this was primarily a violation of Article 6 of the General Regulation, as the re-registrations took place without prior notification of the new insured persons (ie without their knowledge). It was therefore the processing of personal data without any legal title to such processing, while in the course of 2020 the controlled person himself registered 264 similar cases of unauthorized re-registration. proceedings in order to prevent the serious problem described and impose a remedy. The inspection at the second health insurance company was initiated on the basis of a complaint in which the complainant stated that he had never taken any actions aimed at changing the health insurance company, yet he received a written confirmation of his re-registration to the inspected person. in this context, he discovered that the insurance company records the completed and signed application of the insured (complainant), but the person who allegedly signed the application using the complainant's identity card was not the same as the complainant. This illegal situation occurred, among other things, as a result of the insurance company not adopting an internal regulation or work procedure that would regulate internal control mechanisms and appropriate technical-organizational measures preventing the processing of their personal data without the knowledge of the affected persons based on the mere filling in forms. The Office primarily noted that the insurance company violated the personal data administrator's obligation under Article 25, paragraph 1 of the General Regulation by not implementing organizational or technical measures to fulfill the principle of accuracy of personal data. of the state, especially the setting of internal mechanisms that prevent "wild" illegal re-registrations. Recommendation: The described problem points to the importance of consistent compliance with the principle of intentional protection of personal data (also known as rivacy by default), according to which administrators need to assess the probable consequence of processing personal data data for the rights and freedoms of natural persons already before the start of the subject processing.

Links
Anonymized inspection report (UOOU-00343/21-21) [PDF, 299 KB]


ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Healthcare > Inspection of the processing of personal data of new insured persons (UOOU-05364/20 , UOOU-00343/21)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



