1/16

 Procedure No.: PS/00409/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On September 26, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
The Data Protection Officer agrees to initiate these investigative actions
in relation to the news that appeared in the media regarding the aggression
suffered by a minor under 14 years of age at the ***INSTITUTE.1 by some of its
mates, who proceeded to record the images of the aggression and spread them through
of a social network.

SECOND: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of con-
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Protection Regulation)
tion of Data, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD).

On September 27, 2019, the ***INSTITUTE.1 sends to this Agency

the following information and statements:

1. That the students who have confessed to having uploaded images to Instagram are:

A.A.A., born on 07/25/2005.
B.B.B., born on 05/02/2006
C.C.C., born on 11/19/2005

1. That according to what the Judicial Police informed them of the video posted on Instagram by

A.A.A. was made with the profile ***USER.1

2. That they do not know the Instagram profiles of the other videos that apparently

the other students have published.

On October 1, 2019, it is verified that, after a search of the
aggression in Google, in the first 50 search results videos appear and not-
tics in the following domains:
www.elperiodico.com
www.telemadrid.es
www.elmundo.es
www.antena3.com
www.periodistadigital.com
www.telecinco.es
www.elconfidencial.com
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

www.20minutos.es
www.abc.es
www.lavanguardia.com
www.miracorredor.tv
www.cope.es
www.heraldo.es
www.madridesnoticia.es
chainser.com
www.europapress.es
www.publico.es
okdiario.com
www.elperiodicodearagon.com
www.que.es
elpais.com
elespanol.com
www.larazon.es
www.ultimahora.es
elplural.com
news.rt.com
www.madridiario.es
www.laverdad.es
elmiradordemadrid.es
www.educatolerancia.com
elcorreoweb.es
madridpress.com
www.lainformacion.com
www.ondacero.es
www.elprogreso.es
www.huffingtonpost.es
www.bubble.info
www.vozpopuli.com
www.eldistrito.es
www.lavozdeasturias.es
www.diariodenavarra.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

2/16

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/16

www.extremadura7days.com
www.eldia.es
www.madridactual.es
www.estrelladigital.es
www.laopinioncoruna.es
www.meneame.net

On October 1, 2019, the existence of the profile is verified
***USER.1 on Instagram where the name of A.A.A. and the indicative of
"This account is private."

On October 7, 2019, it is verified that when performing a search
of the ***USER.1 profile on Instagram, you get the message “No re-
results”.

On October 8, 2019, the Superior Police Headquarters of Madrid (Di-
Directorate General of the Police) transfers to this Agency the following information and statements
festivities:

1. That according to the information sent to the Group of Minors of Madrid by the

guardian agents of the Municipal Police of Madrid in Report 374/2019:

a. The author and main broadcaster of the video is D.D.D., with date of birth
lie 03/05/2005. Broadcasting the recording later to Insta-
gram, social network through which there is certainty that it circulated.

b. That it can be stated with certainty that the video circulated on the social network
Instagram as has been verified from the witness's account
A.A.A. @***USER.1

On October 24, 2019, the Superior Police Headquarters of Madrid (Di-

Directorate General of the Police) sends this Agency the following information and statements
festivities:

1. That having carried out a user-level search in engines such as
Google and Bing, as well as hashtags with combinations of words like “pali-
za”, “institute”, “(…)”, “*** LOCATION.1”, only news has been found
in the media about the aforementioned event.

2. That by consulting the profile of the user @***USER.1 who uploaded it to Insta-
gram, said profile can no longer be found in the aforementioned social network, having
appeared.

On February 25, 2020, the ***INSTITUTO.1 sends to this Agency the

following information and statements:

1. That of the four minors referred to, A.A.A., B.B.B., C.C.C. and D.D.D., the latter

ma, D.D.D. is not enrolled in that center.

On July 1, 2020, the State Attorney General's Office sends this

Agency the following information and statements:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/16

1. That a government file has been initiated with reference ***REF.1.
2. That the request for information has been transferred to the Provincial Prosecutor's Office

from Madrid.

On July 24, 2020, the State Attorney General's Office sends this

Agency the following information and statements:

1. That a conviction has been issued against the minors involved, the

which is firm

On October 19, 2020, the District Police Station of ***LOCATION.1
(Directorate General of the Police) sends this Agency the following information and statements
festivities:

1. DNI data and postal addresses of the parents of D.D.D. are provided;
Don F.F.F. and Doña G.G.G.. What about D.D.D. data is not obtained from the
itself, and the DNI may never have been issued.

THIRD: After the investigative actions carried out, it is found that A.A.A.
spread the video of the aggression of a minor in the ***INSTITUTO.1 through the social network
Instagram from your account @***USER.1.

FOURTH: In view of the reported facts, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, dated 12/14/20, agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure
against A.A.A., for the alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD typified in article
83.5.a), for illicit processing of personal data of a third party, imposing a
initial sanction of “WARNING”.

FIFTH: Notification of the initiation agreement to A.A.A., which is recorded as received on the date
December 21, 2020.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the person claimed at the time of this resolution
tion has not submitted a brief of allegations, so what is indicated is applicable
in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, which in its section f) establishes that in case
of not making allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the initial agreement
ciation, it may be considered a resolution proposal when it contains a pro-
precise statement about the imputed responsibility, so we proceed to
dictate Resolution.

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On September 26, 2019, they appear in the media
cation images related to the aggression suffered by a minor under 14 years of age in the
***INSTITUTO.1, by some of his classmates, who proceeded to record the images
genes of aggression and spread them through a social network Instagram.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/16

SECOND: The ***INSTITUTO.1, identified the students who uploaded the images to
Instagram, which confessed the facts.
THIRD: The video with the images of the aggression was published on the account of
Instagram ***USER.1, whose owner was A.A.A..
FOURTH: The Superior Police Headquarters of Madrid transfers to this Agency that, according to
According to the information sent by the Madrid Municipal Police, the author and main broadcaster
main of the video was D.D.D.,
FIFTH: The State Attorney General's Office informed this Agency of the fact that
that a conviction had been handed down against the minors involved, which is
sign.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), recognizes each
Control Authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantees
Digital Rights Agency (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.
unto

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The fact that is the object of this procedure is the diffusion carried out through
of the Instagram account whose owner was A.A.A. of the recording of the images of
a minor who was being assaulted by a group of minors; what constitutes
an infringement of data protection regulations.

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a

personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation.

Article 4.2 of the RGPD defines "processing" as: "any operation or
set of operations carried out on personal data or personal data sets
personal, whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction.”

The recording and dissemination of images, which identify or make identifiable
a person, in social networks supposes a treatment of personal data and, therefore,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/16

Therefore, the person who does it has to rely on one of the legitimized causes-
ras indicated in article 6 of the RGPD.

In order for this treatment to be carried out lawfully, it must comply with:

It is established in article 6.1 of the RGPD, which indicates:

<<1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data

final for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
third party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of an applicable legal obligation.

cable to the data controller;

d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or

of another natural person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests per-
guided by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
teresa be a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment

ment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.>>.

Article 7 of the LOPDGDD establishes the following:

"1. The treatment of the personal data of a minor only

may be based on your consent when you are over fourteen years of age.

The cases in which the law requires the assistance of the holders of the
parental authority or guardianship for the celebration of the act or legal business in which
context consent is obtained for the treatment.

2. The treatment of the data of minors under fourteen years of age, based on the
consent, it will only be lawful if the consent of the holder of parental authority or guardianship is recorded, with
the scope determined by the holders of parental authority or guardianship.”

On the one hand, we do not know the age of the minor whose image was the subject of
recording and broadcast while being attacked, so it is unknown if she could
have given consent for such processing, or should have been given by the
holders of parental authority.

However, this sanctioning procedure is processed for the recording and
broadcast on the A.A.A. Instagram account, which, when the events occurred,
he had turned 14 years old.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/16

As indicated, for the processing of personal data it is necessary
that there is a cause that legitimizes it, as has been pointed out, and that it must be collected
in article 6 of the RGPD above.

In this sense, it is included in Recitals 40 and following of the RGPD,

which indicate the following:

“(40) For the processing to be lawful, the personal data must be processed
with the consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established
in accordance with Law, either in this Regulation or by virtue of another Law.
of the Union or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation,
including the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller.
ment or the need to execute a contract in which the interested party is a party or with
purpose of taking measures at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of
a contract.

“(42) When the treatment is carried out with the consent of the interested party-
do, the data controller must be able to demonstrate that the data controller has given
consent to the processing operation…

In these cases, as in the case object of the claim, the only legal cause
gitimadora is usually consent, in general. It is the interested party itself, in this
case the person attacked, the one who is entitled to protect their personal data and
your image. And it is the person who records and uploads the images to a social network who
You must show that you have that consent.

The judgment of April 16, 2007 (STC 72/2007) of the Constitutional Court,

Regarding the dissemination of images, it indicates the following:

“This Court has had occasion to rule on complaints about
violations of the right to one's own image (art. 18.1 CE) in the SSTC 231/1988, of
December 2, 99/1994, of April 11, 117/1994, of April 17, 81/2001, of April 26
March, 139/2001, of June 18, 156/2001, of July 2, 83/2002, of April 22,
14/2003, of January 28, and 300/2006, of October 23.

In what is interesting to highlight here, from said doctrine it turns out that, in its
constitutional dimension, the right to one's own image (art. 18.1 CE) is configured
as a right of personality, which attributes to its holder the power to dispose
of the representation of their physical appearance that allows their identification, which entails
both the right to determine the graphic information generated by physical features
that make it recognizable that it can be captured or have public dissemination, such as the
right to prevent the obtaining, reproduction or publication of their own image by
an unauthorized third party (STC 81/2001, of March 26, FJ 2.

However, what cannot be deduced from art. 18.1 CE is that the right to
own image, as a limit of the actions of others, includes the unconditional right
and without reservation to prevent the physical features that identify the person from being captured
or spread. The right to one's own image, like any other right, is not a
absolute right, and therefore its content is delimited by that of other
constitutional rights and assets (SSTC 99/1994, of April 11, FJ 5; 81/2001, of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/16

March 26, FJ 2; 156/2001, of July 2, FJ 6; and 14/2003, of January 28, FJ 4),
notably the freedoms of expression or information [art. 20.1, a) and d), CE].

The determination of these limits must be made taking into consideration
the teleological dimension of the right to one's own image, and for this reason we have
considered that the interest of the person must be safeguarded in avoiding the recruitment or
dissemination of your image without your authorization or without the existence of circumstances that
legitimize this interference. That is why we have argued that "the capture and dissemination
of the image of the subject will only be admissible when the own —and previous— behavior of
that or the circumstances in which it is immersed, justify the decrease of
the reservation barriers so that the interest of others or the public prevails that they may
collide with that” (STC 99/1994, of April 11, FJ 5).

It turns out, therefore, that the right to one's own image (art. 18.1 CE) is
is delimited by the own will of the owner of the right that is, in principle,
who is responsible for deciding whether or not to allow the capture or dissemination of their image by
a third. However, as has already been pointed out, there are circumstances that can
lead to the enunciated rule yielding, which will happen in cases where there is
a public interest in capturing or disseminating the image and this public interest is
consider constitutionally prevailing the interest of the person in avoiding the
capturing or disseminating your image. Therefore, when this fundamental right enters
colliding with other constitutionally protected assets or rights, they must
weigh the different conflicting interests and, taking into account the circumstances
specific to each case, decide which interest deserves greater protection, if the interest of the
holder of the right to the image in which their physical features are not captured or disseminated without
your consent or the public interest in capturing or disseminating your image (STC
156/2001, of July 2, FJ 6)”.

Likewise, the Judgment of the National High Court, of May 9, 2019,
resource 491/2017, affects the collision of fundamental rights and its necessary
weighting, indicating in its FOURTH Legal Basis the following:

<<As we have declared in cases similar to the present one (sts of May 15
of 2017 (R. 30/16); St. of June 19, 2017, (R.1842/15) and st. from July 18
2017, (R. 114/16), for the correct approach to the issues raised in the
present appeal, it should be underlined that the Constitutional Court, in the judgment
39/2016, of March 3, recalling what was already reasoned in judgment 292/2000,
declares that: "[...] the right to data protection is not unlimited, and although the
Constitution does not expressly impose specific limits, nor does it refer to the powers
public for its determination as it has done with other fundamental rights, not
there is no doubt that they are to be found in the other fundamental rights and
constitutionally protected legal assets, as required by the principle of
unity of the Constitution [...]". Based on the foregoing, and in view of the approach
of the parties, the issue raised in this proceeding is circumscribed to the
weighing trial of rights and interests in confrontation. To this end, it is considered
necessary, in the first place, to define the object and content of the rights
at stake, just as this Chamber has done in previous
occasions in which the same legal controversy has arisen.

Following the STC just cited, it must be stated that the fundamental right

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/16

to the protection of data enshrined in article 18.4 of the Spanish Constitution, to
difference from the right to privacy of art. 18.1 CE, with whom he shares the goal
to offer effective constitutional protection of private personal and family life,
excluding the knowledge of others and the interference of third parties against your
will, seeks to guarantee that person a power of control over their data
personal, on its use and destination, with the purpose of preventing its illicit and harmful traffic
for the dignity and rights of the affected. The right to data protection has,
therefore, a broader object than that of the right to privacy, since the right
fundamental to data protection extends its guarantee not only to privacy in its
dimension constitutionally protected by art. 18.1 CE, but to the sphere of
personal assets that belong to the sphere of private life,
inseparably linked to respect for personal dignity, such as the right to honour,
and to the full exercise of the rights of the person. The fundamental right to
Data protection extends the constitutional guarantee to those data that
are relevant or have an impact on the exercise of any rights of the
person, whether or not they are constitutional rights and whether or not they are related to honor,
ideology, personal and family intimacy to any other constitutionally
protected. In this way, the object of the fundamental right to data protection
It is not reduced only to the intimate data of the person, but to any type of data
personal, intimate or not, whose knowledge or use by third parties may affect
their rights, whether fundamental or not -such as those that identify or allow the
identification of the person, being able to serve for the preparation of their ideological profile,
racial, sexual, economic or of any other nature, or that serve any other
utility that in certain circumstances constitutes a threat to the individual
because its object is not only individual privacy, already protected by art. 18.1 EC,
but personal data. Consequently, it also reaches those
public personal data that, by virtue of being public, being accessible to the
knowledge of anyone, do not escape the power of disposition of the affected party because
This is guaranteed by your right to data protection. As regards the right to
freedom of expression, in light of the doctrine of the Constitutional Court (SSTC
23/2010, of April 27, and 9/2007, of January 15) enshrined in article 20 of the
Constitution, includes, along with the mere expression of thoughts, beliefs,
ideas, opinions and value judgments, criticism of the conduct of another, even when the
itself is bland and can annoy, worry or upset the person it addresses, since
this is required by pluralism, tolerance and a spirit of openness, without which
there is a democratic society.

Freedom of expression is broader than freedom of information as it does not
to operate in the exercise of the former the internal limit of veracity that is applicable to it,
what is justified in that it is intended to present ideas, opinions or value judgments
subjective that do not lend themselves to a demonstration of their accuracy, nor by their nature
abstract are susceptible to proof, and not to establish facts or affirm objective data.
However, this difference does not prevent affirming that both constitute rights.
rights held by all natural persons and that can be exercised at
through word, writing or any other means of reproduction, without prejudice to
that when such freedoms are exercised by information professionals through
of an institutionalized vehicle for the formation of public opinion, its degree of
protection reaches its maximum level (STC 165/1987, of October 27). Definitely,
the recognition of freedom of expression guarantees the development of a
free public communication that allows the free circulation of ideas and value judgments

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/16

inherent to the principle of democratic legitimacy. In this sense, it deserves special
constitutional protection the dissemination of ideas that collaborate in the formation of the
public opinion and make it easier for citizens to freely form their opinions and
participate responsibly in public affairs. However, just like
happens with the other fundamental rights, the exercise of the right to freedom
expression is subject to constitutional limits that the Constitutional Court has
progressively outlined. Thus, it does not cover the presence of phrases and expressions
libelous, outrageous and offensive unrelated to the ideas or opinions expressed
expose and, therefore, unnecessary for this purpose, nor does it protect the disclosure of
facts that are but simple rumours, inventions or insinuations devoid of
foundation, nor does it give shelter to snares or insults, since it does not recognize a
pretended right to insult. Along with this, the expansive trend of freedom of
expression also finds its limit in respect for the normative content
guaranteed by other fundamental rights, whose affectation is not necessary
for the constitutional realization of the right. Delimitation that can only be done
through the proper weighting of the conflicting constitutional values, among
which highlights the guarantee of the existence of public opinion, indissolubly
coupled with political pluralism, it should be remembered that, as recognized by the
paragraph 4 of art. 20 CE, all the freedoms recognized in the precept have their
limit on the right to honor, privacy, self-image and protection of the
youth and childhood, which fulfill a "limiting function" in relation to these
freedoms. Therefore, the protection of these other rights is weakened
constitutional rights recognized by article 20.4 CE against the freedoms of expression
and information, when exercised in connection with matters that are of interest
general, by the matters to which they refer and by the people who intervene in them
and contribute, consequently, to the formation of public opinion, as occurs
when they affect public persons, who exercise public functions or are
involved in matters of public relevance, thus forced to bear a certain
risk that their subjective rights of personality will be affected by
opinions or information of general interest (SSTC 107/1988, of June 8,
20/2002, of January 28, 160/2003, of September 15, 151/2004, of September 20
September, and 9/2007, January 15).>>

In the case analyzed, there is a collision between the right of
information that A.A.A. to broadcast the recording of the minor assaulted
through your Instagram account and the right to protection of personal data
of the young woman attacked. When considering the interests of the young woman attacked, we must
determine that your right to the protection of your personal data prevails.

IV

Article 3 of Law 39/2015 grants legal capacity to minors
age “for the exercise and defense of those of their rights and interests whose
performance is permitted by law without the assistance of the person
who exercises parental authority, guardianship or curatorship”. In what interests us here, the age
to grant consent for the processing of personal data, as well as to
exercise rights in terms of data protection, without the assistance of the owner of
parental authority, is 14 years old, therefore, in this case the minor has that
capacity to act and, consequently, he can be charged with an infringement of the
data protection regulations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/16

In this same sense, the Administrative Court of Navarra, in its
RESOLUTION number 00743/15, March 24, 2015 states the following in the
Second Law Basis:

<<SECOND.- Liability of minors for administrative infractions.

The appellants invoke the doctrine contained in Resolution number 949, of
March 31, 2014, of this Court. However, as the City Council alleges, the
It referred to a minor under 14 years of age. In said resolution, the following were made:
considerations:

“In effect, the current criminal law sets an age below which the per-
sona is unimputable (14 years old), and establishes an age bracket from 14 and under
18 years old, respectively, to whom the Penal Code for adults should not be applied.
but a specific one enacted for them, with a clearly educational purpose, and a
third section or step from the age of 18 and under 21, considered
totally attributable, for all purposes, but depending on the seriousness of the facts
committed, and given his youth, his newly acquired maturity, lack of life experience,
prolongation of adolescence, for reasons of criminal policy, in some cases
must be considered in the previous section (from 14 to 18 years old) to apply
carles the same code or criminal law.

And it is that, as explained by Organic Law 5/2000, of January 12, on Responsibility
Criminal Responsibility of Minors, in its Statement of Motives, "4. Article 19 of the current
the Penal Code, approved by Organic Law 10/1995, of November 23, sets the
the criminal age of majority is eighteen years and requires the express regulation
of the criminal responsibility of minors of said age in an independent Law
tea. Also to respond to this requirement, this Organic Law is approved, if
Well, the provisions of this point in the Penal Code must be complemented in a
double meaning. First, by firmly establishing the principle that responsibility
The penal bility of minors presents, compared to that of adults, a primordial character
of educational intervention that transcends all aspects of its legal regulation.
ca and that determines considerable differences between the sense and the procedure of the
sanctions in both sectors, without prejudice to the guarantees common to all justice-
ble. Second, the age limit of eighteen years established by the Code
Criminal to refer to the criminal responsibility of minors requires another limit
minimum from which the possibility of demanding that responsibility begins and that
has materialized in the fourteen years, based on the conviction that the infractions
committed by children under this age are generally irrelevant and that, in
the few cases in which they can cause social alarm, are sufficient
to give them an equally adequate response in the family and care spheres
civil, without the need for the intervention of the sanctioning judicial apparatus of the State".
 

And later add the following:

"10. In accordance with the principles indicated, it is established, unequivocally, the limit
limit of fourteen years of age to demand this type of sanctioned responsibility-
to minors of criminal age and they differ, in the scope of application of the Law
and the graduation of the consequences for the acts committed, two sections, of each
fourteen to sixteen and seventeen to eighteen years old, to present one and another different group.
characteristic differences that require, from a scientific and legal point of view, a
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

 

12/16

differentiated treatment, constituting a specific aggravation in the section of the
over sixteen years of age the commission of crimes characterized by violence,
intimidation or danger to people".

And, therefore, article 1 of said Organic Law, entitled "General Declaration",

prescribe the following:

"1. This Law will be applied to demand the responsibility of the elderly
fourteen years of age and under eighteen for the commission of acts typified as
crimes or misdemeanors in the Criminal Code or special criminal laws.

2. The persons to whom this Law applies shall enjoy all the rights
rights recognized in the Constitution and in the legal system, particularly
in Organic Law 1/1996, of January 15, on the Legal Protection of Minors, as well
as in the Convention on the Rights of the Child of November 20, 1989 and in
all those regulations on the protection of minors contained in the valid Treaties
celebrated by Spain".

Well, based on the above, it is considered that, transferring the principles
pios of criminal law to sanctioning administrative law, cannot be considered
responsible for an administrative offense to a 13-year-old person (a "child", in pala-
bras of the Statement of Motives of the aforementioned Organic Law)»…

Unlike what happens in the criminal field, there is no administrative law
sanctioning treatment of minors. Although the doctrine comes claiming
I order a new sanctioning administrative law for minors who
adopt criminal legal dogmatics to the extent possible and contemplate sanctions
adequate measures for minors, more effective sanctions with a clearly educational
as is already foreseen in the criminal sphere, for the time being the laws and regulations that
classify administrative infractions and establish the corresponding sanctions not
They usually make a distinction between adults and minors. In general,
therefore, we must understand that those over 14 years of age can be charged with such
violations, except rule that tacitly or expressly provides otherwise...

There are in our legal system some other laws that take for granted
put the responsibility of minors. Thus, articles 24, 25 and 26 of the Or-
Organic 3/2013, of June 20, on the protection of the health of the athlete and the fight against
doping in sports activity, establish the sanctions for very serious infractions
you see but they add that "when a minor is involved in the aforementioned behaviors
of age, or in case of recidivism, the pecuniary sanction may only have
accessory nature and will be sanctioned with a fine of 40,000 to 400,000 euros". The article
50.3 of Law 11/2007, of October 26, on Libraries of the Basque Country and the article
54.3 of Law 16/2003, of December 22, of the Andalusian System of Libraries and
Documentation Centers, attribute to parents, guardians or people who exercise the
saves the minor user the subsidiary responsibility of the penalties
cuniarias that are imposed.

The Judgment of the Superior Court of Justice of Madrid of July 3,

2001 (JUR 2001/307309) makes the following considerations in this regard:
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/16

"The first substantive allegation of the plaintiff is that it was a me-
under 18 years of age, and over 16, at the time of committing the offence, so
there is a cause of administrative incompetence, and in this regard it can be said that the
Article 30 of Law 30/1992, on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and
of the Common Administrative Procedure determines that minors have
capacity to act before said Public Administrations for the defense of their interests.
so that they are also, therefore, trained to take on the responsibility
administrative liability arising from their acts; the fact that coming of age pe-
nal is set at 18 years, it does not deprive the administrative responsibility, which is not
has a punitive character but of protection of public interests, has to be assumed
by those who have the capacity to act before the Administration.

Administrative liability, whether due to fraud or negligence, and even
simple negligence, is widely recognized by our jurisprudence, and even
expressly in article 130.1 of the aforementioned Law 30/1992, sufficing the simple inob-
servicing".

The municipal ordinance on the protection of public spaces and conduct
Zizur Mayor civic does not contain any limitation in this regard. Its article 40,
responsible persons, provides that "they shall be directly responsible for the infractions
to this Ordinance the material authors of the same", and adds in its section
3:

"In general, individuals will be jointly and severally liable for damages.
physical or legal entities of a private nature on which the legal duty of pre-
come the administrative offenses that others may commit.

In the event that the person responsible is a minor or attends that
no legal cause of non-imputability, the parents, guardians or those who have
entrusted legal custody".

Therefore, we must consider that the responsibility for the commission of the
offenses typified by the Ordinance is required from the age of 14 and that, only
mind for the purpose of responding to damages committed by minors under 18 years of age,
it is possible to demand the solidary responsibility of their parents or guardians. In the present case,
the challenged act is the imposition of an administrative sanction and does not include the
requirement of responsibility for the damages that, where appropriate, the City Council could
require in a separate file. Therefore, it is in accordance with the law that
imposed the sanction on its author.>>

In application of the aforementioned fundamentals, A.A.A. is responsible for treating
storage of data of the minor attacked by disseminating her image, the regulation being applicable
data protection motive.

v

A.A.A., in its capacity as data controller, in accordance with article 6
RGPD, was obliged to have a cause of legitimacy of those indicated in the men-
mentioned article, having totally and absolutely dispensed with it.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/16

In short, the recording and subsequent dissemination of the images of the minor aggression
dida does not have any legitimizing cause as required by article 6 of the RGPD.

The data processing carried out violates article 6 of the RGPD conduct that
It is subsumable in article 83.5 of the RGPD that provides: "The infractions of the dis-
following positions will be sanctioned in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines
20,000,000 Eur maximum or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD qualifies
very serious “b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”. The limitation period for very serious offenses provided for in the
Organic Law 3/2018 is for three years.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD establishes:

SAW

“Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers

listed below:

a) (..)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

c)...
d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(...)
i) impose an administrative fine under Article 83, in addition to or instead of
of the measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case”.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation
has in its art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed constituted
would place a disproportionate burden on a natural person, rather than a measurable sanction.
Due to a fine, a warning may be imposed. However, special attention must be paid
attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infraction, to its intentional nature
to the measures taken to mitigate the damages suffered, to the degree of res-
responsibility or any relevant prior violation, to the manner in which the authority
of control has been aware of the infraction, to the fulfillment of or-
sentenced against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of conduct and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/16

any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, considering the special circumstances that concur in the
person responsible for the infringement and making a broad interpretation of the criterion
that inspires Recital 148 of the RGPD, according to which when the fine that proves
possibly imposed constituted a disproportionate burden, it is estimated that due to the
Violation of article 6 of the RGPD proceeds imposes the sanction of warning.

Likewise, it is appropriate to impose the corrective measure described in article 58.2.d)
RGPD and order the claimed party not to process personal data again (such as,
for example, the recording and dissemination of videos) without having legitimacy for it;
for example, the consent of those affected is one of the legitimizing causes of
treatment, under article 6 of the RGPD.

It is considered that the claimed party has violated article 6 of the RGPD by recording and
spread the images of a minor who was being assaulted without cause
legitimacy for it. This conduct is typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and
Such conduct is sanctioned with a warning and with the corrective measure already indicated.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency

RESOLVES:

NOTICE: To A.A.A., for the violation of article 6 of the RGPD.

REQUIRE: A.A.A., in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD
that it does not carry out any data processing again without having some legal cause.
cheater of such treatment.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the pre-

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-
CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following
Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/16

through the

  Electronic Registration of

administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

