1/13

 File No.: PS/00327/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: An agent from the Main Post of *** LOCATION.1, of the Civil Guard,
dated June 7 and 14, 2021, transfers to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data some facts, in case they violate data protection regulations.

The facts are as follows:

On May 20, 2021, Mrs. A.A.A., in her capacity as Director of the C.E.I.P.
***CEIP.1, located in ***LOCALIDAD.1, filed a complaint because a mother, whose
children study at the center, he has made a video montage, humiliating three people from
black race from the same family unit; and has widely distributed the video through
from his Instagram profile and by whatsapp.

The complaint is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

As a result of the complaint, police proceedings have been initiated for
alleged criminal offense against the dignity of persons (insults/vexation
with advertising). Proceedings sent to the Investigating Court No. 1 of
***LOCATION.2 (A Coruña), and in whose content the special
vulnerability of the people incarcerated according to risk factors, such as their
little roots in Spain, ignorance of the language, or the recent schooling of
one of the minors in the school.

A copy of the recorded video is delivered in case it incurs in violation of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), by not having your consent;
and even if the child under 9 years of age had given it, it would not be valid.

In the montage of the video you can hear these lyrics of a song:

"Black cats come out at night and go looking for trouble, woe for trouble,

black cats come out at night and go looking for trouble”

This is the transcript of the written message contained in the montage:

“THE GIRL IS GORGEOUS BUT HER BROTHER'S FACE KILLS ME. III
XXXXXXX SORRY MY LIFE. HAHAHA HE GETS UP AND EVERYTHING IS GOING TO HIT ME
ME AND MY CHALLENGE HAHAHAHAHAHAHA LAUGH CHILD I MAKE YOU FAMOUS”

 

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

data provided by the Civil Guard, prior to admission for processing, it was found
the next:

The quality of the captures does not allow a 100% assurance of identifying the profile, which
appears to be ***PROFILE.1. It is verified that this profile is currently a private profile.
do (with nearly 1,000 followers and 47 posts). It is unknown if the video is still active.
currently available or if it was published as a Story, with publication limited to 24h.

Subsequently, it is verified that if it is the indicated profile to which the

complaint.

THIRD: On June 22, 2021, the claim was admitted for processing by
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FOURTH: On July 12, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 6 of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement, on July 30, 2021, the

claimed has not presented allegations to the same.

FIFTH: On July 21, 2021, the Investigating Court No. 1 of
***LOCATION.1, of the initiation of this sanctioning procedure, requesting
that communicate to this Agency their criteria on the existence of subject identity,
fact and basis between the alleged administrative offense and the criminal offense
that could correspond, to proceed, where appropriate, to the immediate suspension of the
procedure initiated, by virtue of the provisions of article 22 of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, for which purpose a copy of the resolution agreeing to the
initiation of sanctioning procedure and documentation sent by B.B.B.

SIXTH: On September 10, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agrees to suspend this sanctioning procedure
until the court proceedings are completed.

SEVENTH: On October 6, 2021, the Investigating Court No. 1 of
***LOCALIDAD.2 communicates the provisional dismissal of the proceedings by not
appear duly justified the perpetration of the crime that motivated the formation of
the cause.

On December 15, 2021, the suspension of the

procedure and proceedings continue.

EIGHTH: On December 27, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed
perform the following tests:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

1. The claim filed by
CIVIL GUARD - POSITION P. OF ***LOCALITY.1 and their documentation, the
documents obtained and generated during the admission phase of the application
claim, and the report of previous investigation actions that are part of the
procedure E/07025/2021.

2. Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the communications

of the Investigating Court number 1 of ***LOCATION.2.

3. B.B.B. to report whether you have removed the video subject to

claim of your Instagram and has ceased its dissemination.

NINTH: The proposed resolution is signed by the instructor of the procedure in
dated February 2, 2022. The proposal was notified on February 14,
2022, as stated in the Receipt Notice. The motion for a resolution was made in
the following terms:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
sanction B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infringement of Article 6 of the RGPD,
typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, with a fine of 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros)”.

No allegations have been received.

  

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the

documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A., as Director of the C.E.I.P. CEIP.1, located at
***LOCALIDAD.1, filed a complaint because a mother, whose children study at the
center, has made a video montage, humiliating three black people in a
same family unit; and has widely disseminated the video through his profile
Instagram and whatsapp.

SECOND: The complaint is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed).

THIRD: A copy of the recorded video was presented. In the montage of the video
listen to these lyrics of a song:

"Black cats come out at night and go looking for trouble, woe for trouble,

black cats come out at night and go looking for trouble”

This is the transcript of the written message contained in the montage:

“THE GIRL IS GORGEOUS BUT HER BROTHER'S FACE KILLS ME. III
XXXXXXX SORRY MY LIFE. HAHAHA HE GETS UP AND EVERYTHING IS GOING TO HIT ME
ME AND MY CHALLENGE HAHAHAHAHAHAHA LAUGH CHILD I MAKE YOU FAMOUS”.

FOURTH: The Investigating Court No. 1 of ***LOCALITY.2 (A Coruña) initiated

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

criminal proceedings against the person responsible for the recording and dissemination of the video;
communicating the provisional dismissal of the proceedings due to not appearing
duly justified the perpetration of the crime that motivated the formation of the cause.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The
procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed
by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, insofar as they are not
contradict, in the alternative, by the general rules on the
administrative procedures.”

II

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image
of natural persons) carried out through the capturing in the video denounced
It is in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

In the first place, it should be noted that the fact that the denounced action
does not constitute a crime or it has not been possible to prove its perpetration does not imply
that is not punishable by administrative means.

In reference to the publication of the images indicated in the background
by the claimed party, article 6.1 of the RGPD, establishes the assumptions that allow
consider the processing of personal data lawful:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

applicable to the data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or of

another natural person.

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests
pursued by the controller or by a third party, provided that on
such interests do not override the interests or rights and freedoms
fundamental data of the interested party that require the protection of personal data, in
particularly when the interested party is a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to

treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

On this question of the legality of the treatment, it also affects the
Recital 40 of the aforementioned RGPD, when it states that "For the
processing is lawful, personal data must be processed with the consent
of the interested party or on any other legitimate basis established in accordance with Law, either
either in this Regulation or by virtue of other law of the Union or of the
Member States covered by this Regulation, including the need to
comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller or the need to
to execute a contract to which the interested party is a party or in order to take measures
at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of a contract.»

In relation to the above, it is considered that there is evidence that the
treatment of data of the people that appear in the images object of this
claim has been made without legitimizing cause of those included in article 6
of the GDPR.

The GDPR applies to personal data, which is defined as "data
personal” means any information about an identified or identifiable natural person (“the
interested"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person whose identity
can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier,
such as a name, an identification number, location data, a
online identifier or one or more elements of physical identity,
physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person.

Article 7 of the LOPDGDD establishes the following:

"1. The treatment of the personal data of a minor only

may be based on your consent when you are over fourteen years of age.

The cases in which the law requires the assistance of the holders of the
parental authority or guardianship for the celebration of the act or legal business in which
context consent is obtained for the treatment.

2. The treatment of the data of minors under fourteen years of age, based on the
consent, it will only be lawful if the consent of the holder of parental authority or guardianship is recorded, with
the scope determined by the holders of parental authority or guardianship.”

Minors whose data has been processed by the respondent are perfectly

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

identifiable and that their identity can be determined, directly or indirectly.

IV

The facts denounced are based on the presumed illegality of the recording of a
montage video, humiliating three black people from the same unit
family; and its wide dissemination of the video through the Instagram profile of the defendant and
through whatsapp.

As proof of this, a Civil Guard agent from the main post of
***LOCATION.1 accompanied a copy of the video, as indicated in the section on
"Background", first of them.

The initiation agreement was received by the respondent, as stated in the Notice of
receipt, without any response having been received that could indicate the reasons
of the recording and dissemination of the video and the legitimizing causes of that concrete
treatment.

The corrective powers of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data, as a control authority, are established in article 58.2 of the RGPD.
Among them are the power to impose an administrative fine with
in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD -article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations are
conform to the provisions of the GDPR, where appropriate, in a certain way and
within a specified period -article 58. 2 d)-.

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the
exposed facts do not comply with the provisions of articles 6.1 of the RGPD, so
could involve the commission of an infringement typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
which provides the following:

 "Infringements of the following provisions shall be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9.”

For the purposes of the limitation period of the infraction, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious and prescribes after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

"According to the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

v

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the precautions

visions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

“Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of the administrative fines
proceedings under this Article for infringements of this Regulation
indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate
nothing and dissuasive.”

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an admissible fine
and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to

alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the

treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put

remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in
related to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of

certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

of personal data.

commission of the offence.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of

the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.
h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In this case, the following have been taken into account, in particular:

items:

Aggravating factors:

-Circumstance of article 83.2.a): the seriousness of the infraction taking into

account the purpose of the processing operation.

This behavior of the respondent that qualifies as an infringement of article 6.1.
GDPR represents a very serious interference in the private sphere of people
whose data is processed through the recording and dissemination of a video
humiliating three black people from the same family unit, two of them
minors.

- From article 83.2.b) “intentionality or negligence in the infringement”.

In compliance with its legal obligations -for what is of interest here to the
principle of legality- the defendant must act with the diligence that the
circumstances of the case require. In this case, the lack of diligence of the defendant
should be classified as "serious". The defendant should have been particularly
scrupulous in verifying your legitimacy for the treatment before taking it to
cape. Affirmation that is based on the fact that the treatment in which the infringement is specified
was carried out without having previously verified if it had the necessary legitimacy and in the
relevance for the privacy of people the recording and dissemination of their
image humiliating them.

mitigating factors:

- That the author of the video is a natural person whose main activity

It is not linked to the processing of personal data.

Considering the exposed factors, the amount to be imposed for the imputed infraction
is 10,000 euros (ten thousand euros).

The art. 69 of the LOPDGDD, states the following:

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

“Article 69. Provisional measures and guarantee of rights.

1. During the performance of the preliminary investigation actions or initiated
a procedure for the exercise of sanctioning powers, the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection may agree on the necessary provisional measures.
sary and proportionate to safeguard the fundamental right to the protection of
data and, in particular, those provided for in article 66.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
the precautionary blocking of the data and the immediate obligation to attend to the right request
ted.

2. In cases where the Spanish Data Protection Agency considers
that the continuation of the processing of personal data, their communication or transfer
international reference would entail a serious impairment of the right to protection of
personal data, you can order those responsible or in charge of the treatments
the blocking of the data and the cessation of its treatment and, in case of non-compliance by
these said mandates, proceed to its immobilization.

3. When it had been submitted to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data a claim that referred, among other issues, to the lack of attention
within the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, the Spanish Data Protection Agency may agree at any
time, even prior to the initiation of the procedure for the exercise of
the sanctioning power, by reasoned resolution and after hearing the res-
responsible for the treatment, the obligation to meet the requested right, continuing-
I know the procedure regarding the rest of the issues that are the subject of the claim.”

Preamble I of the LOPDGDD says:

“The protection of natural persons in relation to data processing
is a fundamental right protected by article 18.4 of the Constitution
Spanish. In this way, our Constitution was a pioneer in recognizing the
fundamental right to the protection of personal data when it stated that "the law
will limit the use of information technology to guarantee honor and personal and family privacy.
of citizens and the full exercise of their rights. Thus it echoed the
work developed since the end of the 1960s in the Council of Europe and
of the few legal provisions adopted in neighboring countries.

The Constitutional Court stated in its Judgment 94/1998, of May 4, that
We are faced with a fundamental right to data protection by which
guarantees the person control over their data, any personal data, and
about its use and destination, to avoid illicit traffic of the same or harmful to the dignity
ity and the rights of those affected; Thus, the right to data protection
cough is configured as a faculty of the citizen to oppose that certain
personal data is used for purposes other than the one that justified its collection.
For its part, in Judgment 292/2000, of November 30, it considers it as a
autonomous and independent right consisting of a power of disposition and control
on the personal data that empowers the person to decide which of these data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or what this third party can
collect, and that also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

(...).

On the other hand, it is also included in article 8 of the Bill of Rights
Fundamentals of the European Union and in article 16.1 of the Treaty on Functioning
lien of the European Union. Previously, at European level, the Di-
aforementioned Directive 95/46/CE, whose purpose was to ensure that the guarantee of the right to pro-
protection of personal data does not pose an obstacle to the free movement of data.
within the Union, thus establishing a common space to guarantee the right
shock that, at the same time, would ensure that in case of international transfer of the
data, its treatment in the country of destination was protected by adequate safeguards
to those provided for in the directive itself”.

Article 56 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Agreement of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), insofar as
applicable, states the following:

"1. Once the procedure has been initiated, the competent administrative body to resolve
see, may adopt, ex officio or at the request of a party and in a reasoned manner, the measures
provisional measures that it deems appropriate to ensure the effectiveness of the resolution that may
could fall, if there were sufficient elements of judgment for it, in accordance with the
principles of proportionality, effectiveness and least burden.

2. Before the initiation of the administrative procedure, the competent body
to initiate or instruct the procedure, ex officio or at the request of a party, in cases
of urgent urgency and for the provisional protection of the interests involved,
may adopt, in a reasoned manner, the provisional measures that are necessary and
provided. Provisional measures must be confirmed, modified or
raised in the agreement to initiate the procedure, which must be carried out within
within fifteen days of its adoption, which may be subject to appeal
to proceed.

In any case, said measures will be without effect if the procedure is not initiated.
within said period or when the initiation agreement does not contain a pronouncement
express lie about them.

3. In accordance with the provisions of the two preceding sections, they may agree-
The following provisional measures are taken, under the terms provided in Law 1/2000,
of January 7, of Civil Procedure:

a) Temporary suspension of activities.
b) Provision of bonds.
c) Withdrawal or intervention of productive assets or temporary suspension of ser-
vices for health, hygiene or safety reasons, the temporary closure of the establishment
due to these or other causes provided for in the applicable regulatory regulations.

d) Preventive seizure of assets, income and fungible things computable in

cash by application of certain prices.

e) The deposit, retention or immobilization of personal property.
f) The intervention and deposit of income obtained through an activity that

is considered illegal and whose prohibition or cessation is intended.

g) Consignment or constitution of a deposit of the amounts claimed.
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

11/13

h) The withholding of income on account that must be paid by the Administrations

Public.

i) Those other measures that, for the protection of the rights of the interested
sated, expressly provided by law, or deemed necessary to ensure the
effectiveness of the resolution.

4. Provisional measures may not be adopted that may cause damage to
difficult or impossible repair to the interested parties or that imply violation of rights
protected by law.

5. Provisional measures may be lifted or modified during the processing
mitigating the procedure, ex officio or at the request of a party, by virtue of circumstances
supervening or that could not be taken into account at the time of its adoption.

In any case, they will be extinguished when the administrative resolution takes effect.

to put an end to the corresponding procedure”.

In the analyzed data treatment, the high risk is unquestionably appreciated.
go that it supposes for the guarantees and freedoms of those affected, minors, as well
as an absence of legal basis to do so.

The continuation of the treatment entails a very serious and irreparable damage.
ble for the rights of affected minors. Discontinuation of treatment is
only measure that can be adopted to safeguard the Fundamental Right
to Data Protection, turning out to be, in addition, the least harmful, onerous and proportional
tional for the claimed.

From these premises and in order to reestablish and guarantee the rights and freedoms
ties of those affected, it was deemed appropriate, when agreeing to start this procedure
to impose a provisional measure that would prevent the continuation of the treatment as soon as possible.
processing of the personal data of minors through the video recorded by the claim
mado that it must cease its publication and dissemination immediately.

As provided in art 83.2 of the RGPD and art 76.3 of the LOPDGDD above
transcribed was considered necessary, proportional, effective to guarantee the rights
and liberties at stake for the affected minors and less onerous for the claim-
to impose, in addition to the administrative fine, the provisional measure of order
nar, in accordance with the provisions of art. 69 of the LOPDGDD and art. 56 of the LPACAP,
the provisional suspension of all processing of personal data related to the
We are not affected by broadcasting the video on the Instagram profile of the claimed party.
and through whatsapp.

It was requested as evidence that the respondent inform if he had suspended the distribution
merger of the video whose broadcast originated this procedure; without being received
reply on that particular.

In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, it is ordered to
the demanded to suspend the dissemination of the video on the Instagram profile, if not
well done already

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of Article 6 of the
RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €10,000 (ten thousand euros)

SECOND: LIFT the provisional measure ordered to B.B.B. in the agreement of
opening of this sanctioning procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 69 of the LOPDGDD and art. 56 of the LPACAP, which led to the continuation of the
treatment of the personal data of minors through the video recorded by the
claimed that its publication and dissemination should cease immediately.

THIRD: REQUIRE B.B.B. so that, within a maximum period of one month, it adopts
the necessary measures to adapt their actions to the regulations for the protection of
personal data, ceasing the publication and dissemination of the video with data of
minors, if you haven't already done so.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B.

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-150222

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

