 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Survey on 
Device Fingerprinting  
  

 

 

1 

 
 

 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 

1. 

INTRODUCTION ...............................................................................................................................3 

2.  DEVICE FINGERPRINTING ................................................................................................................4 

3. 

4. 

FINGERPRINTING TECHNIQUES ......................................................................................................6 

LEVELS OF IDENTIFICATION ............................................................................................................6 

5.  ASSESSMENT OF LEVEL OF IDENTIFICATION .................................................................................9 

6.  THE STUDY .................................................................................................................................... 10 

7.  MEASURES AVAILABLE TO THE USER ........................................................................................... 16 

8. 

INDUSTRY RECOMMENDATIONS .................................................................................................. 18 

9.  CONCLUSIONS .............................................................................................................................. 20 

ANNEX I ................................................................................................................................................. 22 

ANNEX II ................................................................................................................................................ 26 

ANNEX III ............................................................................................................................................... 29 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

2 

 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
At  present,  the  model  that  underlies  most  web  services  is  based  on  providing  a  completely  free 
service  in  exchange  for  the  monetisation  of  the  data  gathered  from  users.  In  most  cases,  the 
information  gathered  from  users  is  monetised  through  marketing  services  that  run  personalised 
advertising  campaigns  for  clients  looking  to  advertise  their  product  or  service.  Therefore,  in 
addition to identifying the user, tracking them and gathering the data, they need to profile those 
data with the aim of maximising the efficiency of the advertising on offer.  

To identify users different tracking techniques are used, the best known of these is cookies, which 
are  files  stored  on  the  user’s  computer  created  by  the  service  provider’s  website  and  which  are 
subsequently  used  to  variouspurposes,  such  as  improving  the  user  experience  with  the  web 
browser or studying the statistics of the user’s website use. However, they are also used for other 
purposes including the profiling of users. 

Article  22.2  of  the  Law  on  Information  Society  Services1  states  that  service  providers  may  use 
storage  and  data  recovery  devices  on  user's  computers  on  the  condition  that  they  give  their 
consent  after  being  given  clear  and  complete  information  on  their  use,  in  particular,  for  data 
processing purposes, in accordance with the applicable legislation. In the case we are concerned 
with  here,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  13  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  of  the 
European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council,  of  27  April  2016,  relating  to  the  protection  of  natural 
persons  in  relation  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  and  the  free  circulation  of  these  data  and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC  (GDPR)  and  Article 11 of  Organic Law  3/2018  of 5  December,  on  the 
Protection of Personal Data and the Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD). 

Where  technically  possible  and  efficient  to  do  so,  the  consent  of  the  recipient  to  accept  the 
processing of their data may be provided using the appropriate parameters of the browser or other 
application,  whenever it appears during the installation or update via an express action to such 
effect. 

Today, browsers can be configured, among other options, not to accept cookies or to accept only 
temporary  cookies  which  are  automatically  deleted  when  the  browser  is  closed.  For  their  part, 
anti-virus systems have installed consistent protections to be able to schedule deletion of cookies 
and other files installed on the user's computer by web applications as well as anonymizers of the 
data of the terminals. 

However,  we  find  ourselves  before  a  very  dynamic  market  in  which  browsers  and  anti-viruses 
provided  the  tools  to  allow  users  to  manage  the  exposure  of  their  personal  information,  which 
implies a certain difficulty when it comes to accurately profiling potential clients. For this reason, 
the  different  stakeholders  involved  in  the  Internet  market  continue  to  research  new  ways  of  get 
around these restrictions to gather, and exploit, users’ data. 

                                                           
1 Law 34/2002, of 11 July, on information society services and eCommerce. 

 
 

 

3 

 
 

From  a  number  of  existing  studies  concerning  the  internet  identification  techniques,  it  is 
concluded  that  other,  more  advanced  tracking  techniques  are  being  used  and  that  they  have 
overcomed  cookies,  based  on  the  gathering  of  specific  information  from  the  browser  and/or 
browsing  device,  the  combination  of  which  allows  for  a  an  identifier  to  single  out  and  uniquely 
identify the user and the legitimacy of which remain unclear.  This set of techniques is known as 
device  fingerprinting,  browser  fingerprinting  or  simply  fingerprinting.  Through  the  text,  these 
terms may be used interchangeably. 

This study assesses an approximation of the digital fingerprint of the device; the techniques most 
used to obtain it; how they identify the device used by the user, some recommendations for users 
on how to protect their privacy through the uses of measures available to them and thus avoid the 
use  of  fingerprints  for  tracking  and  profiling  purposes  and,  finally,  recommendations  for  the 
industry. 

2. DEVICE FINGERPRINTING 
Device fingerprinting is the systematic gathering of information on a specific remote device with 
the  aim  of  identifying,  singling  out  and,  thus  being  able  to  monitor  its  user's  activity  for  the 
purpose of profiling.  

The  European  Data  Protection  Board,  in  its  document  “Opinion  9/2014  on  the  application  of 
Directive 2002/58/EC to device fingerprinting” assumes the definition of RFC69732 which identifies 
fingerprinting as “a set of information elements that identifies a device or application instance”.3 

In simpler terms, the digital fingerprint of a device is a data set extracted from the user's terminal 
device that allows that terminal device to be unequivocally uniquely identified. Given that people 
generally  tend  not  to  share  terminals,  whether  it  be  a  mobile  phone,  tablet,  laptop  or  work 
computer,  uniquely  identifying  the  terminal  means  uniquely  identifying  the  person  using  it.  The 
entities  that  use  digital  fingerprinting  mechanisms  systematically  compile  information  on  all 
terminals  that  are  connected  to  their  servers  with  the  aim  of  uniquely  identifying  them  so  as  to 
monitor the user’s browsing in order to build a profile. 

Contrary to what some people may think, this profiling is not limited to compiling and analysing 
the user's browsing habits or the searches they make on the servers. More advanced techniques 
allow for the registration of the movements the user makes throughout the web page  itself with 
their mouse, examining the parts of the screen they spend more time over4. On the other hand, the 
development  of  software 
facilitate  the 
implementation  of  procedures  to  gather  very  specific  information  on  the  device,  such  as  the 
                                                           
2 RFC  6973 Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols. Document that offers a guide with considerations 
on  privacy  to  include  in  the  development  of  internet  protocol  specifications.  The  aim  is  for  designers, 
implementers and users of internet protocols to be conscious of design options relating to privacy. 
3 Opinion 9/2014 on the application of Directive 2002/58/EC to device fingerprinting. 
4 See, for example, the activity of www.hotjar.com or www.crazyegg.com, which allow for the recording of the 
user’s mouse movements, clicks and page browsing, analysing the way users use web forms etc. 

for  example  JavaScript  or  Flash, 

for  devices, 

 
 

 

4 

 
 

browser  model,  type  and  version  of  operating  system,  screen  resolution,  processor  architecture, 
lists of text fonts, plugins or devices installed, IP addresses, etc.  5 The appropriate combination of 
all  this  information  allows  for  the  building  of  a  type  of  unique  device  fingerprint  which  uniquely 
identifies it and, therefore, differentiates each internet user unequivocally. 

Through these fingerprinting techniques, upon accessing a website, the browser executes on the 
user’s  device,  and  without  their  knowledge,  a  series  of  processes  with  the  aim  of  gathering 
sufficiently detailed information to uniquely identify it and then transmits this to the server which 
stores it for subsequent use. This information is combined with other data the server receives from 
the user’s browser, the purpose of which is initially technical (for example, to adapt the contents to 
the terminal device's screen) but which are reused for identification purposes. 

It  is  widely  known  and  accepted  that  a  specific  web  service  can  track  a  user's  browsing  using 
cookies, with the guarantee that deleting the cookies will remove the link between the device and 
the  personal  information  gathered.  The  reality  is  that  the  use  of  the  device  fingerprinting 
techniques allow for the linked information to be reassigned to the same user when identifying the 
deleted  cookie,  to  prevent  the  loss  of  the  traceability  of  the  user’s  browser  habits  or  indeed  for 
such  tracking  to  be  carried  out  using  only  the  digital  fingerprint  itself.  In  conclusion, if,  when  an 
identity  cookie  is  generated,  its  device  fingerprint  is  detected  and  stored,  when  the  user  deletes 
the cookies on their browser these can be restored using the digital fingerprint to re-identify the 
user, making deleting the cookies ineffective. 

Digital  fingerprinting  techniques  have  been  described  in  the  specialised  literature  as  “cookieless 
monsters” given that it is  not necessary to install  any type of cookie on the device to gather  the 
information and if this happens in a manner that is fully transparent to the user, they can have no 
way of preventing it (N. Nikiforakis, 2013).  

Among the different techniques that may be used to obtain digital fingerprinting of a device, there 
are  a  number  of  particularly  advanced  ones  such  as  canvas  fingerprint,  canvas  font  fingerprint, 
webRTC fingerprint or audio fingerprint which allow for very precise profiles to be obtained.  

The use of these techniques may have legitimate purposes such as, for example, forming part of 
multiple  factor  authentication  mechanisms.  However,  they  may  also  be  used  to  monitor  users 
during their web browsing and compile information on their habits and interests without the user 
being conscious of it.  

With  regard  to  the  duty  to  inform,  it  is  common  to  find  privacy  clauses  on  websites  and 
applications that allow the user to consent to the use of cookies but it is not so common to find 
information for the user on the use of tracking techniques based on digital fingerprinting to build 
user profiles.  

                                                           
5 https://amiunique.org/faq 

 
 

 

5 

 
 

3. FINGERPRINTING TECHNIQUES 
There are numerous properties that can be gathered from a device through the browser and which 
allow for sufficient information to be gathered so that in certain situations the terminal device can 
be identified unequivocally. As shown previously, some of these characteristics are widely known 
because they are commonly used to present applications or websites adapted to the device that 
accesses  them.  However, others  are  much  less known  and  may  surprise  some  with  their  level  of 
sophistication. 

Annex I includes a number, but by no means all, of the terminal device characteristics that can be 
gathered  through  a  browser  and  that  could  help  obtain  a  digital  fingerprint  such  as  the  type, 
version  and  personal  configuration  of  the  browser,  the  set  of  characteristics  installed  that  give 
information  on  the  applications  installed,  the  language,  the  time  zone,  the  screen  configuration 
and the technical elements of the terminal, IP address, etc. It also includes information on other, 
more advanced techniques that in normal conditions might allow for more specific identification 
of the device such as canvas fingerprinting, canvas font fingerprinting, webRTC fingerprinting and 
audiocontext fingerprinting. 

In  addition  to  the  aforementioned  techniques  there  are  many  other  properties  that  could  be 
registered and in some cases they are used to form part of the digital signature of the device such 
as: 

• 

Installation of ad-blockers on the browser 

•  Memory of the device 
•  Number of monitors connected to the device 
•  Device with accelerometer 
•  Presence of virtual keyboards 
•  List of supported actions in the case of multi-touch screens 
•  Available audio and video codecs 
•  Terminal device battery use profile 
•  List of applications installed 

4. LEVEL OF IDENTIFICATION 
Each of the digital fingerprint devices, on their own, would not allow for the unique identification 
of the device or the individual using it. However, when they combine a set of these techniques with 
the  aim  of  individualising  the  device,  the  quantity  of  information  generated  offers  a  high 
probability  that  there  are  no  cases  between  the  identifiers  assigned  and  different  terminals. 
Without  going  into  the  detail,  the  quantity  of  information  will  be  directly  proportional  to  the 
number  of  properties  analysed  and  inversely  proportional  to  the  probability  that  one  of  the 
characteristics is found to be present. 

 
 

 

6 

 
 

At present it is estimated that there are some 4 billion computers, smartphones and other terminal 
devices in the world. With a sufficient set of discriminating data it is possible to uniquely identify all 
of  them  and  this  is  precisely  what  digital  fingerprinting  does.  Moreover,  it  does  so  on  a  massive 
scale,  as  any  terminal  device  that  connects  to  a  website  that  uses  these  techniques  will  be 
identified forever on this server and does so globally as the reach of the internet is worldwide. 

In  terms  of  web  browsing,  one  might  think  that  a  service  that  attempts  to  obtain  a  digital 
fingerprint of a device simply detecting the model of the browser used. It seems obvious that a very 
efficient individual identification will not be achieved, given that looking at the statistics6 around 
59%  of  European  users  use  Chrome,  some  16%  use  Safari,  9%  use  Firefox  and  4%  use  Internet 
Explorer with the remaining 12% using other browsers. 

 

A web service that only detects the browser probably does so with the objective of adapting the 
content of the website to the user's browser. However, if in addition to the simple detection of the 
browser model, other characteristics are detected such as the language configured in the system, 
the time zone, the list of text fonts of the system, etc. and a combination of these characteristics is 
used to obtain a digital fingerprint of the device, the level of unique identification must be much 
greater and in certain circumstances it could be possible to uniquely identify a device from among 
all the users of a web service.  

It  would  be  useful  to  establish  a  metric  that  allows  for  the  level  of  identification  that  could 
potentially be reached with each of the fingerprinting techniques studied and it is necessary to ask 

                                                           
6 http://gs.statcounter.com/browser-market-share/all/europe/#monthly-201805-201805-bar  

 
 

 

7 

 
 

the following question: Is there any scientific way of quantifying the level of unique identification 
that could be reached? 

The response is yes, and this quantification can be done by taking the concept of entropy as it is 
defined in the ‘Theory of Information”. Entropy measures in bits the degree of uncertainty in the 
result of any experiment or random event or, intuitively, the quantity of information provided by 
the occurrence of an event. For example, if an event has two equiprobable outcomes we say there 
is one bit of entropy, if there are four there are two bits of entropy and so on7. A six-sided dice would 
have  six  equiprobable  results,  which  means  the  entropy  or  quantity  of  information  a  roll  would 
provide is equal to 𝑙𝑜𝑔26 = 2,58 𝑏𝑖𝑡𝑠. If the dice is tampered with, not all the results would have 
the  same  probability  and  the  quantity  of  information  from  each  roll  would  be  measured  as 
− ∑ 𝑃𝑛. 𝑙𝑜𝑔2𝑃𝑛

, with 𝑃𝑛the probability of one result of the dice. 

6
1

If we consider a world population of 7.5 billion people, the identity of an unknown person chosen 
at random would represent an entropy of just under 33 bits, given that 233 is more than 8 billion. 

As the characteristics of an individual are identified, a reduction of bits of entropy is accumulated 
in such a way that if the entropy is reduced 33 bits it can be said that the individual is definitively 
uniquely identified 

For example, in the particular case of fingerprinting, it can be detected that they are using Internet 
Explorer, a reduction of entropy of four bits, while detecting that they are using Chrome would be a 
reduction in entropy of one bit8. 

In general terms, the closer a device is to generalities or to defect configuration, the fewer factors 
offered to make the unique identification possible. This statement is the main defence mechanism 
the user can exploit when it comes to minimising tracking actions used against them. 

Even though, in general terms the factors detected can allow the reduction of the number of bits of 
entropy until full unique identification is reached, this reduction is not absolutely cumulative but 
depends on whether there is a correlation between the random variables. For example, knowing 
someone’s date of birth is a reduction of entropy of 8.5 bits. Knowing another person's star sign of 
the zodiac is a reception of entropy of 3.6 bits. However, the knowledge of the date of birth and 
sign  of  the  zodiac  of  the  same  individual  does  not  represent  a  reduction  of entropy  of  any  more 
than 8.5 bits as the information providing a person's start sign is implicitly contained in their date 
of birth. 

                                                           
7 (Eckersley, A Primer on Information Theory and Privacy, 2010) 
8  As  we  have  established,  the  quantity  of  information  ∆𝑆 = − log2 𝑃(𝑋 = 𝑥),  where  ∆𝑆  represents  the  reduction  of 
average entropy through bits and 𝑃(𝑋 = 𝑥) represents the probability that a specific case materializes. In more profane 
terms, we would say that the higher ∆𝑆 the more precise the unique identification of the user's device. 

 
 

 

8 

 
 

5. ASSESSMENT OF LEVEL OF IDENTIFICATION  
There  are  various  research  projects  that  allow  us  to  check  if  a  browser/device  is  potentially 
identifiable through fingerprinting techniques. 

➢  PANOPTICLICK9. 

This  website  performs  a  rapid  test  to  check  some  of  the  techniques  mentioned  above.  The 
figure  below  shows  the  result  of  a  test  performed  by  PANOPTICLICK  with  two  different 
browsers.  As  can  be  read  in  the  text  highlighted  in  red,  with  both  browsers  the  digital 
fingerprints  of  are  unique  among  more  than  a  million  digital  fingerprints  generated  in  this 
protocol. This digital fingerprint represents a reduction of at least 20.37 bits of entropy in total.  
In  addition,  the  bits  of  entropy  estimated  are  indicated  for  each  of  the  characteristics 
highlighted  

 

➢  AmIUnique.org10.  

 

 

The aim of this page is investigate the use of digital fingerprints in web browsing, allowing for 
the  user  to  be  informed  of  certain  details  of  their  browser  configuration  and  to  what  extent 

                                                           
9Electronic Frontier Foundation Research project. The Electronic Frontier Foundation is a non-profit organisation founded 
in 1990 with the aim of defending civil rights and liberties in the digital age. 
10 (Laperdrix, Rudametkin, & Baudry, 2016). This is a website created and maintained by a research group financed by the 
Project DIVERSIFY and the National Institute of Applied Sciences of Rennes. 

 
 

 

9 

 
 

they  can  consent  to  the  tracking  of  same.  Furthermore,  it  also  intends  to  take  advantage  of 
information gathered on digital fingerprints to advise to configure their browser in a manner 
similar to other users thereby minimising the options for real tracking of browsing. 

The  figure  below  shows  the  result  of  a  test  performed  on  amiunique.org  with  two  different 
browsers.  As  can  be  seen 
in  red,  the  complete  digital 
fingerprintobtained is unique in more than half a million fingerprints collected so far. 

in  the  text  highlighted 

 

6. THE STUDY 
In  2018,  the  Agency  considered  carrying  out  a  study  on  the  use  of  these  techniques  aimed  at  a 
Spanish  audience  and  in  Spain.  To  do  so,  the  OpenWPM11  tool  was  used,  which  is  a  complete 

                                                           
11  OpenWPM  (Web  Privacy  Measurement).  This  is  the  platform  developed  by  the  University  of  Princeton  to  carry  out 
studies  on  Web  privacy.  Used  in  more  than  20  studies  carried  out  by  different  institutions  OpenWPM  is  the  free  to  use 

 
 

 

10 

 
 

framework  with  multiple  tools  to  allow  for  the  partial  automation  of  the  study  and  to  compile 
browsing data on a large scale and a version of Firefox modified to register information on visits 
made  automatically,  in  particular  function  calls  executed  on  the  device  by  the  user  and  may  be 
considered indicators of the use of fingerprinting techniques. 

A  function  call  which  contains  characteristics  of  the  terminal  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  a 
website is using fingerprinting techniques, but if the call follows certain patterns or fulfils certain 
specific conditions, it can be deduced that the web service is potentially using these techniques. 

It must also be taken into account that there are two distinct processes. On the one hand, there is 
the use of these functions on the user side to extract information and on the other hand there is  
the use or processing of this information to that might be carried out on the side of the web service 
provider (server). 

In addition to OpenWPM, other tools have been used in the form of specific plugins for browsers 
and  other  browsers  specifically  developed  to  boost  users’  privacy  with  the  aim  of  validating  the 
detections made automatically with Open WPM. 

On the other hand, at present, the majority of browsers allow for users’ tracking preferences to be 
established,  especially  those  widely  used.  Specifically,  W3C12  has  proposed  a  mechanism  that 
allows the user to express their privacy preference in a manner that a web service can deactivate 
their tracking techniques where the user makes a Do Not Track (DNT) request. 

The  DNT  header  field  can  accept  two  values:  one  in  the  event  that  the  user  does  not  want  their 
browsing to be tracked and zero in the event that the user consents to tracking. There is also the 
possibility of not sending this header field in HTTP requests, therefore DNT will take the Null values 
which means that the user has not established a preference. The standard establishes by default 
that this header field is not sent unless the user activates it from the browser. 

The tests carried out during the study are described below, along with the results obtained in each 
case. 

DETECTION OF FINGERPRINTING TECHNIQUES 

fingerprinting 

In the first phase of the study, an analysis was carried out to detect the potential use of some 
advanced 
font  and 
audiocontext fingerprinting. Wirth this objective in mind, 5,006 URLs13 corresponding to 2.503 
domains  were  analysed,  detecting  the  potential  use  of  these  techniques  in  28.19%  of  the 
requests from these URLs with the following details: 

techniques,  specifically  canvas,  webRTC,  canvas 

                                                                                                                                                                                     
under  GPLv3  license.  Based  on  Python,  OpenWPM  allows  use  of  Firefox  to  automate  and  simulate  access  to  different 
websites compiling information such as the use of cookies, fingerprinting, tracking, etc. 

12    World  Wide  Web  Consortium  (W3C),  is  an  international  consortium    that  generates  recommendations  that  and 
standards to ensure the long term growth of the World Wide Web. 
 
13 Web addresses  

 
 

 

11 

 
 

 

 

During the study, situations were detected in which several requests to the same URL showed 
variations in the use of fingerprinting techniques, observing the following behaviours: 

•  Websites  that  only  use  fingerprinting  techniques  when  the  device  does  not  have 

certain cookies installed. 

•  Websites which initially used fingerprint detection techniques but which later, after a 

number of visits no longer used them.  

More detailed information in the detection techniques used can be found in Annex II. 

SUBJECT ANALYSIS 

This  phase  saw  analysis  of  the  first  one  hundred  search  results  on  Google  for  the  following 
terms: sex, drugs, alcohol, pornography, health, politics, news, sport, shopping, home, betting, 
travel and religion. For each search result, the homepage was also analysed. 

 
 

 

12 

Fingerprinting per subjects

 
 

25%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

canvas

canvas font

webRTC

audiocontext

 

Just  as  in  the  previous  phase,  the  aim  was  to  quantify  the  percentage  of  websites  that 
potentially  use  advanced  detection  techniques  such  as  canvas,  webRTC,  canvas  font  and 
audiocontext,  The result is shown in the graphic above. 

It  can  be  observed  that  for  some subjects  percentages  in  excess  of  20%  were  reached  in  the 
canvas and webRTC techniques. Particularly high percentages for search results for the terms 
sex,  pornography,  religion,  health  and  politics  attract  attention.  For  the  complete  table  with 
detailed percentages, see Annex III. 

USE OF DO NOT TRACK REQUEST 

On 5 April 2018, the Agency began a test of 14,442 websites aimed at Spanish users. The list of 
websites was obtained from combining all the listed URLs used in previous tests and removing 
any repetitions. The content of the list of URLs is very heterogeneous, including websites of all 
kinds: media, banking, online gaming, etc.  

As in all tests carried out,  the Flash function call was not included as it is technology that is 
blocked for security reasons and most of the latest browsers don’t include this technology or 
have it deactivated by default. 

On  this  occasion,  the  focus  of  analysis  was  on  verifying  the  use  of  the  Do  Not  Track  DNT) 
request  by  the  websites  visited.  It  was  detected  that  16.72%  of  sites  check  this  parameter 
through javascript function calls to the user's device, which would be substantial for the data 
controller  to  detect    It  must  also  be  highlighted  that  in  92%  of  cases  in  which  the  DNT 
parameter is used, this combination is made by third parties. These third party connections are 
pieces of code included on the website visited but which link to another website. For example, 

 
 

 

13 

 
 

when  visiting  a  website,  a  side  panel  containing  ads  appears.  The  information  that  appears 
does not originate in the website visited bot a third party page hosted on a different server. 

Annex  III  included  information  on  the  detection  of  digital  fingerprint  techniques  on  the 
websites analysed and graphic representations with information on the main functions used. 

This  same  sample  was  analysed  to  verify  the  level  of  compliance  with  the  user's  wishes  as 
expressed  using  DNT,  through  an  exploration  of  sites  simulating  a  browser  with  DNT  active, 
and discovering that fingerprint extraction programs make very diverse use of this option.  

The table below shows the percentage of website visits which, despite having checked using 
javascript functions that the DNT request is activated by the user, continue to make suspicious 
function  calls  susceptible  to  use  for  compiling  user  fingerprints  through  the  advanced 
techniques studied. 

 

As can be seen, in most cases (Canvas Font) on 60% of the occasions on which the DNT option 
is activated, they continued to compile the fingerprint, ignoring the user's wishes.  

As can be seen, in most cases (Canvas) on 96.12% of the occasions on which the DNT option is 
activated, they continued to compile the fingerprint, ignoring the user's wishes., 

Examining  in  greater  detail,  we  were  able  to  ascertain  that  it  was  that  the  case  that  the 
programme compiling the fingerprint was violating the user’s request expressed through the 
DNT  option,  but  that  these  programs  can  even  use  the  DNT  request  itself  as  an  additional 
unique identification factor. 

EFFICIENCY OF MITIGATION MEASURES 

All the general use web browsers allow for extensions (also known as plugins or add-ons) to be 
installed which extend or modify the functionality of the browser. Among these there are some 
whose  functionality  is  improved  privacy  for  the  user  in  the  form  of  ad-blockers  and, 

 
 

 

14 

 
 

 

 

 
 

definitively, blockers of user tracking tools. Among the best known of these are uBlock Origin, 
Ghostery, Disconnect, Adguard, Adsafe and Adblock. 

In  the  final  phase  of  the  study  it  is  intended  to  assess  if  the  installation  of  some  of  the 
extensions  that  promise  to  improve  privacy  can  be  of  help  and  really  efficiently  deliver  this 
functionality.  Only  open  code  options  such  as  Disconnect,  Ghostery  and  uBlock  Origin  were 
studied, as they are the most extensively used. 

The tool OpenWPM allows for a study of this kind, carrying out automatic views with different 
extensions  and  configurations  of  privacy  options  on  the  browser.  Thinking  about  minimising 
the study times, a list was generated containing only URLs on which fingerprinting techniques 
have been detected. The result is a list of approximately 1,400 websites on which to analyse the 
different extensions. 

The  following  table shows  the  different  tests  that have  been  carried out  the  configuration  of 
privacy settings and browser extensions on each of them. 

 

A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

Accept 3rd party cookies 

Always 

Always 

Never 

Always 

Always 

Always 

Always 

Never 

Flash disabled 

Do Not Track request 

Ghostery 
Disconnect 
ublock Origin 

No 

No 
No 
No 
No 

Yes 

Yes 
No 
No 
No 

Yes 

Yes 
No 
No 
No 

No 

Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 

Yes 

Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 

Yes 

Yes 
No 
No 
Yes 

Yes 

Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 

Yes 

Yes 
No 
No 
Yes 

Test A is taken as the initial reference to measure the efficiency of the different configuration 
settings  and  for  the  rest  of  the  tests  the  reduction  of  calls  was  quantified  based  on 
fingerprinting  characteristics.  The  following  table  shows  the  results  obtained  during  the 
different phases and below is the graphic representation of these data. 

Technique detected 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

fingerprinting by function 

-5.0% 

-12.0% 

-5.9% 

-10.5% 

-85.3% 

-90.1% 

-85.3% 

name 
canvas 

canvas font 

webRTC 

audiocontext 

-3.6% 

0.0% 

-19.2% 

-21.7% 

-40.9% 

-39.4% 

-41.9% 

-2.5% 
-49.7% 
-12.7% 

-2.5% 
-48.5% 
4.5% 

0.0% 
-82.8% 
-12.7% 

0.0% 
-83.4% 
-26.1% 

-13.8% 
-86.6% 
-43.3% 

2.1% 
-86.0% 
-17.2% 

-16.7% 
-87.9% 
-47.8% 

 

15 

 
 

 

As the table shows, the activation of privacy options that include browsers (tests B and C) and 
the  disabling  of  Flash,  send  the  request  not  to  t  rack  and  block  third  party  cookies  does  not 
lead to significant reduction in the detection of fingerprinting techniques, except in the case of 
webRTC. However, the activation of ad-blockers does seem to offer some improvement against 
tracking  by  third  parties  through  fingerprinting,  producing  a  significant  reduction  of 
detections. 

For  more  extensive  information  on  the  results  obtained  during  this  phase  of  the  study,  see 
Annex III. 

7. MEASURES AVAILABLE TO THE USER 
The user can protect their privacy by implementing measures available to them and thus prevent 
the  use  of  fingerprinting  for  tracking  and  profiling  purposes.  Suggested  below  are  a  number  of 
measures  that,  regrettably,  are  complex  for  the  common  user  and  make  browsing  difficult  and 
have a limited effect:  

•  Use of the browser’s Do Not Track (DNT) option 

The  Do  Not  Track  (DNT)  option  is  the  mechanism  proposed  by  W3C14  so  that  the  user  can 
express  their  preferences  on  tracking,  in  such  a  way  that  the  web  service  can  disable  their 

                                                           
14  World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), is an international consortium  that generates recommendations that 
and standards to ensure the long term growth of the World Wide Web. 

 
 

 

16 

 
 

tracking  techniques  upon  the  request  of  the  user.  The  user  must  visit  their  browser  settings 
and enable this option, currently available for almost all browsers. 

Regrettably,  not  all  web  services  comply  with  or  respect  the  user's  DNT  request,  primarily 
because there is still no firm recommendation on the part of W3C and because the compliance 
requirement15 are still only in the draft stage. In fact, some web services use this information as 
another factor in the digital fingerprint of the user. 

• 

Installation of blockers 

Browser  extensions  (also  known  as  plugins  or  add-ons)    that  extend  or  modify  their 
functionality have become popular. Blockers are one type of such extensions, allowing the user 
to elude advertising and user tracking. 

Tests was carried out testing one browser with different configurations on websites on which 
fingerprinting  activity  had  previously  been  detected.  The  tests  compared  the  use  of  browser 
privacy options. As a result of these analyses the following conclusions were reached: 

✓  Activation of privacy options included on browsers, such as disabling Flash, sending a Do 
Not Track request and blocking third part cookies; these measures can be effective against 
other techniques but did not lead to a significant reduction in detections of fingerprinting 
techniques. 

✓  However,  the  activation  of  ad-blockers  does  seem  to  offer  some  improvement  against 

tracking by third parties, producing a significant reduction of detections.  

Based  on  our  observations,  the  blockers  Ghostery  y  uBlock  Origin  stood  out  as  the  most 
efficient. 

•  Disabling use of Javascript 

 
The disabling of Javascript prevents the capture of data from the terminal device, although not 
in all cases and may prevent effective browsing on many websites. 
 

•  Alternating browser 

Using different browsers on the same device does not remove the use of the fingerprinting but 
it will ensure that all their information cannot be consolidated and associated with the same 
identifier. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  use  of  the  TOR  browser  masks  the  fingerprint  of  the  terminal  device 
when accessing the internet. 

•  Execution of access to internet in virtual machines. 

This  is  an  option  within  reach  for  more  advanced  users  and  consists  of  the  execution  of 
applications  that  simulate  devices  that  use  different  operating  systems  and  browser 
configurations. This allows for internet access in a controlled environment without providing 

                                                           
15 https://www.w3.org/2011/tracking-protection/drafts/tracking-compliance.html 

 
 

 

17 

 
 

any  access  to  the  terminal  device,  even  if  the  filtering  of  certain  information,  such  as  the  IP 
address, cannot be prevented. 

With respect to tracking prevention measures, below we provide some notes on two of them that 
are not effective: 

•  Private  browsing:  Many  browsers  have  the  option  of  private  or  incognito  browsing.  With 
this option, users get the impression that their browsing is secure and is not trackable. With 
this  option  the  browser  does  not  save  information  on  websites  or  browsing  history,  web 
caché, passwords, information forms, cookies or other website data, and upon closing the 
tab deletes all the information from the user's device. It may give the sense that browsing 
allows  the  user  to  be  protected  against  the  use  of  fingerprinting  but  is  a  false  sense  of 
security. Private browsing is transparent for the techniques used in digital fingerprinting, 
as  the  characteristics  checked  by  the  fingerprint  are  the  same,  with  or  without  private 
browsing and the user will be just as uniquely identifiable. In this sense, private browsing is 
not effective. 

•  Use  of  anonymization  networks  or  VPNs.  Even  though  they  prevent  the  disclosure  of  IP 
addresses  to  the  destination  server,  they  do  not  filter  the  collection  data  on  the 
characteristics  of  the  terminal.  Moreover,  it  is  necessary  to  be  conscious  of  the  fact  that 
behind a free service there is a money-making strategy. 

Finally, in terms of conclusions, we must add that one of the main recommendations to increase 
the  privacy  of  the  browser  is,  insofar  as  possible,  to  reduce  the  installation  of  other  types  of 
extensions on the browser. 

1.  One  of  the  factors  of  identification  by  fingerprinting  consists  of  obtaining  a  list  of 
extensions or browser plugins. The more extensions installed and the further the browser 
configuration from the defect settings, the greater the capacity of the list of extensions to 
uniquely identify the user. 
Installing extensions constitutes adding a piece of software in our browser developed by a 
third  party  removed  from  the  development  of  the browser,  with  all  the  implications  that 
involves. 

2. 

8. INDUSTRY RECOMMENDATIONS 
The study carried out arrived at the following recommendations for both developers of products 
and services for accessing the internet and for those entities that exploit the data obtained from 
the device fingerprint: 

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MANUFACTURERS AND/OR DEVELOPERS  
Just as there are browsers that include the DNT option and various settings for accepting cookies, 
manufacturers and developers of devices susceptible to fingerprinting technologies should include 

 
 

 

18 

 
 

in their products the settings necessary so that the user can avail of capacities to deny or accept, in 
full or in part, use of these technologies. 

Moreover,  they  should  provide  the  consumers  said  devices  with  the  maximum  security  setting 
configured  by  default  and  the  user  may  modify  these  options  if  they  so  wish.  As  best  practice, 
browsers may have the DNT option activated by default. 

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ENTITIES THAT WANT TO USE FINGERPRINTING 
The digital fingerprinting procedure should follow, in the terms provided for in Article 22.2 of the 
LSSI,  which  transposes  Directive  2002/58/EC  into  Spanish  Law,  the  requirements  concerning 
information  and  obtaining  consent.  Requirements  for  the  application  of  detailed  criteria  in  the 
AEPD’s “Guide to Use of Cookies”.  

Where the user has not consented to processing, the data controller must refrain from compiling 
and processing the fingerprint and any other data associated with same. Moreover, all applications 
of fingerprinting should check the status of the DNT option. If the user has activated said option, it 
must be interpreted as a clear negative, acting appropriately. As best practice, the providers of the 
service must consider activating the DNT where no preference has been established by the user. 

Even where the DNT option is disabled, it should nonetheless offer the opportunity of giving prior 
consent for processing of fingerprinting for purposes beyond the strict provision of the service and 
the possibility of subsequently withdrawing that consent. 

In any case insofar as device fingerprinting techniques gather personal data in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Article  4.1  and  Recital  26  of  the  GDPR,  the  processing  regime  is  subject  to  the 
provisions of same, in particular in relation to the exercise of rights. 

The  company  must  compile  a  register  of  processing  activities,  including  processes  that  use 
fingerprinting.  

They  must  also  evaluate whether  they  comply  with  the  criteria  for  a  Data  Protection  Officer  and 
contract  one  in  accordance  with  the  criterial  set  by  the  GDPR.  The  advice  of  this  figure  will  be 
important in adapting to the GDPR. 

Similarly,  a  data  protection  risk  analysis  must  also  be  carried  out  on  the  rights  and  freedoms  of 
those affected. If said analysis shows a high levels of risk, they will then be obliged to complete a 
Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) to establish the necessary measures to guarantee the 
protection of users’ rights.  

This impact assessment must consider, at least, the following risks: 

•  The impact of the filtration of profiling information contained in the database. 
• 

In  relation  to  the  above,  access  to  said  information  by  governmental  or  political 
organisations. 

•  The use of social, cultural or racial bias leading to automatic decisions. 

 
 

 

19 

 
 

•  Access by employees or third parties to specific users’ data. 
•  The use of the data to social, political or general harassment. 
•  The excessive collection of data and their retention for excessive periods. 
•  The impact on the perception of the freedom of use of profiling information. 
•  The manipulation of user’s wishes, beliefs and emotional state. 
• 

In relation to the above, the risk of re-identification. 

As  a  result  of  the  DPIA,  the  Privacy  requirements  must  be  established  by  default,  applying  the 
Privacy  measures  from  the  Design  and  defining  the  specific  requirements  in  relation  to 
confidentiality, availability, integrity, authentication and traceability that, from the data protection 
perspective are used in the security risk management for the information systems that process said 
data. 

9. CONCLUSIONS 
From  the  analysis  of  the  information  in  the  above  sections,  the  problems  arising  from  digital 
fingerprinting are the following: 

•  Fingerprinting techniques collect information on the terminal devices of the user, generally 
without their knowledge or consent, processing information on the characteristics of the 
device,  in  some  cases  for  purposes  other  than  the  initial  technical  purpose  envisaged, 
through the execution on  the terminal of applications that capture and transmit data to 
the data controller's server. 

•  The  set  of  data  collected  can  be  so  extensive,  or  enriched  to  such  an  extent  that  it  can 
unequivocally identify the user and, among other things, find some data defined as special 
categories according to the GDPR. This set is, a priori, unknown. There are serious doubts 
as  to  the  application  of  the  minimisation  of  data  principle  and  the  period  for  which  they 
can be stored. 

•  There are not sufficient tools provided to evade the data collection as once the accessing of 
a website is initiated and before the user has even been able to view it, the server already 
has their fingerprint information. 

•  Cases have even been detected where, in general, the DNT configuration established by the 
user  to  disable  the  collection  of  fingerprint  information  on  internet  services  is  not 
observed. 

•  The obligation to obtain informed consent and, in particular with respect to the purpose 
for  which  the  data  are  collected,  as  said  techniques  are  generally  used  for  user  profiling 
(including  making  decisions  with  consequences  for  the  service)  and  analysing  internet 
activity, is not adhered to 

•  The user has no means of exercising the rights established in the GDPR where there collect 

or are associated with personal data. 

 
 

 

20 

 
 

The  impact  of  the  use  of  these  techniques  on  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  users  has  never  been 
analysed  by  the  data  controllers  of  device  fingerprinting  models,  nor  have  they  provided 
information  on  the  measures  established  to  minimise  the  risk  and  to  prevent  any  breach  in 
security. 

The processing of data using device fingerprinting techniques must follow the criteria contained in 
the Spanish Data Protection Agency's “Guide to Use of Cookies” and the provisions of the General 
Data Protection Regulation on the processing of personal data.  

 

References 

Eckersley, P. (2010). A Primer on Information Theory and Privacy. Retrieved from Electronic Frontier 
Foundation: https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2010/01/primer-information-theory-and-privacy 

Eckersley, P. (2010). How Unique Is Your Web Browser? Privacy Enhancing Technologies. 

Englehardt, S., & Narayanan, A. (2016). Online Tracking: A 1-million-site Measurement and Analysis. 

Proceedings of ACM CCS 2016. 

Laperdrix,  P.,  Rudametkin,  W.,  &  Baudry,  B.  (2016).  Beauty  and  the  Beast:  Diverting  modern  web 
browsers to build unique browser fingerprints. 37th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. 

Mowery, K., & Shacham, H. (2012). Pixel Perfect: Fingerprinting Canvas in HTML5. 

N.  Nikiforakis,  A.  K.  (2013).  Cookieless  Monster:  Exploring  the  Ecosystem  of  Web-Based  Device 

Fingerprinting,. 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 541-555. 

 

 

 

 
 

 

21 

 
 

 

ANNEX I 

Identifying characteristics: 

Some  of  the  characteristics  that  may  be  detected  through  the  web  browser  and  which  might 
contribute to obtaining the digital fingerprint of a device are: 

➢  User  Agent:  This  is  a  string  that  the  browser  sends  to  the  server  in  the  HTTP  request 
headers. This text chain contains information on the browser being used and the operating 
system  of  the  device.  It  also  contains  information  on  the  versions  of  the  browser  and 
operating system. 

➢  HTTP  Accept  Header:  HTTP  Accept  Header  sent  to  the  server  in  the  HTTP  requests  to 

indicate the type of content the browser will accept in the server responses. 

➢  HTTP Accept-Charset: HTTP Accept-Charset Header sent to the server in HTTP requests to 

indicate the set of characters accepted in HTTP requests, for example ‘utf-8’. 

➢  HTTP Accept-Encoding: HTTP Accept-Encoding Header sent to the server in HTTP requests 

to indicate the set of characters accepted in requests, for example ‘gzip, deflate’. 

➢  HTTP  Accept-Language:  HTTP  Accept--Encoding  Header  sent  to  the  server  in  HTTP 

requests to indicate the set of characters accepted in requests, for example ‘en- US’. 

➢  List of plugins activated in the browser: Through javascript, the list of plugins activated in 

the browser can be obtained. 

➢  Platform  on  which  to  execute  the  browser:  The  platform  on  which  the  instance  of  the 

browser is executing, for example ‘Win32’, can be obtained through javascript. 

➢  Cookies enabled: Through javascript it can detected in the browser has cookies enabled or 

not. 

➢  HTTP Do not track Header: Most current browser are able to inform the websites they visit, 
their advertisers and their content providers that the user does not want their browsing to 
be tracked. This is done through a HTTP header request. Using javascript, once can detect 
if this characteristic has been activated or not. 

➢  Time zone of the browser: Can be obtained using javascript. 
➢  Resolution of the screen: Can be obtained using javascript. 
➢  Use of local storage Javascript is used to check if the local storage can be used providing 

HTML5. 

➢  Use  of  session  storage:  Javascript  is  used  to  check  if  the  local  storage  can  be  used 

providing HTML5. 

➢  WebGL  Vendor:  Some  browsers  provide  complete  identification  for  the  graphic  card 

installed on the system. 

➢  WebGL  Renderer:  Some  browsers  provide  the  complete  name  of  the  graphic  driver 

installed on the system. 

➢  List of text fonts: Can be detected through javascript. 

 
 

 

22 

 
 

➢  Use  of  ad-blockers:  Various  checks  are performed to  determine  the  use of  ad-blockers  in 

the browser. 

➢  Touchscreen device: It is detected if the device has a touch screen. 
➢  Public IP with which the device connects to the internet. 

 

  CANVAS:  

Advanced digital techniques on which this study focuses: 

Use is made of the canvas element of HTML5 to calculate a certain image through javascript. This 
image  is  rendered  subtly  different  due  to  the  differences  of  hardware/software  of  each  device. 
These subtle differences can be detected for the purpose of identifying the devices.  

HTML  Canvas  is  an  element  used  to  draw  websites  in  real  time  using  JavaScript  code  that  is 
executed in the user's browser. The Canvas element is only a container for graphics, it needs to use 
languages like JavaScript to draw on the container. HTML Canvas has different methods that allow 
you to draw lines, rectangles, arches, text and to add images. This element, HTML Canvas, can be 
used  for  fingerprinting  users  (Mowery  &  Shacham,  2012).  Differences  in  the  rendering  of  fonts, 
smoother, anti-aliasing and other characteristics that make each device draw the image in a subtly 
different  manner,  which  allows  for  the  user’s  digital  fingerprint  to  be  obtained.  The  factor  that 
forms part of the digital fingerprint of the device is a hash of the particular image rendered by the 
device. 

Some examples of images generated through JavaScript on websites to identify users are shown in 
Figure 1. These images are rendered in the browser but are not shown to the user. 

 

 

 

Figure 1: Examples of images used in Canvas Fingerprinting 

 

➢ 

 

Most  strings  include  special  Unicode  characters,  in  which  the  differences  in  rendering  are  made 
more evident if possible. Such is the case of UNICODE character U+1F603, which represented the 
smiley face’ emoji. Figure 2 shows the rendering differences of this character on different devices 
(Laperdrix, Rudametkin, & Baudry, 2016). 

 
 

 

23 

 
 

➢ 

 

➢ 

Figure 2: Different rendering of the same UNICODE character. 

 

CANVAS FONT:  
The list of text fonts of a device or browser is a characteristic that, together with others, can be used 
to obtain a unique identifier for each user (Eckersley, How Unique Is Your Web Browser?, 2010). 

Canvas Font Fingerprinting is considered a variation of Canvas Fingerprinting, in which a list of text 
fonts  are  used  to  generate  images  of  the  same  string  multiple  times  (generally  several  dozen 
times). The variety of fonts together with the subtle rendering differences allow for metrics to be 
extracted from the text generated in the images which serve to generate a unique identifier of the 
browser. 

When the browser does not facilitate the list of sources through Flash or Javascript, once can use 
the same technique to detect the presence of certain fonts in the system. A first rendering is carried 
out  with  a  non-existent  fonts  that  causes  the  browser  to  render  with  the  defect  source.  For 
comparison,  obtaining  the  metrics  of  the  font  by  default  allows  for  a  list  of  fonts  present  in  the 
system to be prepared base on rendering the same text chain with a predetermined list. 

WEBRTC  
This  technique consists  of  the  user  of  the  HTML5  API WebRTC  to  obtain  the  local  IP (IP  behind  a 
NAT)  of  a  device.  The  local  IP,  combined  with  the  Public  IP,  constitutes  a  very  consistent 
identification factor of the device. 

WebRTC  is  free  and  open  code  framework  that  provides  browsers  and  mobile  applications  with  
p2p (peer to peer) Real-Time Communications (RTC) between devices To determine the best route 
in  the  network  between  the  devices,  each  of  them  collects  information  on  the  addresses  of  the 
other, including IP addresses for local networks (Ethernet or WiFi) and directions from the public 
side of the NAT, making them available to the web application without the explicit consent of the 
user  [Section 6.3 de (Englehardt & Narayanan, 2016)]. Web applications can access users’ local IP 
addresses  behind  an  NAT  (Network  Address  Translation),  and  this  information  is  very  useful  for 

 
 

 

24 

 
 

tracking  purposes.  We  use  the  example  of  a  local  network  with  20  devices  connected  to  the 
network  and  the  internet  through  a  router.  A  web  application  could  access  the  public  IP  of  the 
network/router and the private IP of each of the devices, uniquely identifying each device perfectly 
despite being behind a router. 

AUDIOCONTEXT:  
HTML5  API  Audiocontext  is  used  for  a  series  of  processes  on  a  fixed  audio  signal.  The  slight 
differences in the result of processing according to the hardware/software of the specific system 
allow for the device to be particularized. 

This  type  of  technique  works very  similarly  to Canvas  Fingerprinting  but  using  audio  rather  than 
images. Through the use of the AudioContext library available in most more recent browsers, the 
subtle differences in rendering a specific audio signal, for example a sinusoidal or triangular signal, 
to  generate  a  digital  fingerprint.  It  must  be  highlighted  that  this  technique  does  not  involve 
collecting  audio  signals  played  or  recorded  on  the  device,  but  a  property  of  the  device's  audio 
process stack. 

The two methods most used for AudioContext fingerprinting are shown in Figure 2  (Englehardt & 
Narayanan,  2016).  Both  methods  process  a  signal  generated  through  an  OscillatorNode  to  then 
read the resulting signal and generate a hash that constitutes the digital fingerprint generated. The 
same audio signal processed by different devices or browsers will have subtle differences due to 
the differences of hardware/software between devices. 

➢ 

Figure 3: AudioContext Fingerprinting Methods 

 

 

 
 

 

25 

 
 

ANNEX II 

Fingerprinting detection patterns 

The  detection  of  fingerprinting  techniques  has  been  performed  through  the  identification  of 
certain  patterns  of  data  registered  during  automatic  navigations  with  the  OpenWPM  tool.  These 
patterns are based on those described in (Englehardt & Narayanan, 2016). 

  DETECTION OF FINGERPRINTING TECHNIQUES IN GENERAL 

This pattern of detection is the simplest of all, as it consists of identifying within the code of the 
websites  analysed  the  calls  to  javascript  functions  with  names  that  might  allude  to  such 
techniques. That is, function calls with names like  ‘getCanvasFingerprint’, ‘getFP’, ‘getFingerprint’ 
are  identified.  This  detection  pattern  has  the  advantage  of  permitting  detection  of  all  kinds  of 
digital fingerprint techniques and the disadvantage of not detecting the use of digital fingerprint 
techniques when the names of the functions do not allude to these kinds of techniques. 

Table 1 shows examples of real detections identified using the OpenWPM tool- 

visit_id 

3087 

3857 
441 
215 
216 

func_name 
e.prototype.getCanvasFp 
window.SN</</FingerPrint</t</e.prototype.getHasLied
Browser 
q.getFingerPrint 
a.prototype.getCanvasFingerprint 
a.prototype.getCanvasFingerprint 

3035 

Fingerprint.prototype.getCanvasFingerprint 

1371 
3155 
3155 
2053 
2221 
4075 

hj.fingerprinter.prototype.getHasLiedBrowser 
b.prototype.getCanvasFp 
b.prototype.getCanvasFp 
[1]</a.prototype.getCanvasFp 
e.Fingerprint2</t.prototype.getHasLiedBrowser 
Fingerprint2.prototype.getHasLiedBrowser 

short_script_url 
crm.clubenvero.es/mtc.js 

d1af033869koo7.cloudfront.net/psp/platform/247px.js 
mc.yandex.ru/metrika/watch.js 
prod-js.aws.y-track.com/v5/profile-hub.min.js 
prod-js.aws.y-track.com/v5/profile-hub.min.js 
s3.amazonaws.com/dmp-pr-
production/JScript/fingerprintjs/fingerprint.js 
script.hotjar.com/modules-
b4b50aa474eaa7a39e3ccc9eed6884eb.js 
static.brandcrumb.com/bbva.js 
static.brandcrumb.com/bc.js 
www.edreams.es/drmsdstl.js 
www.thehotelsnetwork.com/js/hotel_price_widget.js 
www.thehotelsnetwork.com/js/hotel_price_widget.js 

Table 1: Javascript functions with names alluding to the use of fingerprinting techniques. 

 

DETECTION OF FINGERPRINTING CANVAS:  
To detect this technique, two patterns of identification have been used: 

•  Pattern C1: Calls from the same JavaScript function to canvas.toDataURL to obtain a hash of 
an image and canvas.fillText to write strings in an image. Specifically, those functions that call 
twice  to  canvas.fillText  and  once  to  canvas.toDataURL  are  particularly  suspicious,  even  
though  other  combinations  cannot  be  discounted  either.  This  pattern  of  identification  is 
typical of use of canvas fingerprint and some examples of detection are shown in table 2. 
 
 
 

 
 

 

26 

 
 

visit_id 
215 
216 
683 
861 
917 
1023 
1285 
2221 

func_name 
a.prototype.getCanvasFingerprint 
a.prototype.getCanvasFingerprint 
cv/</</dF</N[112]</d 
p.prototype.getCanvasPrint 
I 
p.prototype.getCanvasPrint 
p.prototype.getCanvasPrint 
e.Fingerprint2</t.prototype.getCanvasFp 

3035 
3155 
3723 

3857 
4075 
4443 

Fingerprint.prototype.getCanvasFingerprint 
b.prototype.getCanvasFp 
f 
window.SN</</FingerPrint</t</e.prototype.getCan
vasFp 
Fingerprint2.prototype.getCanvasFp 
StripeM</t.default< 

toDataUR
L Count 

fillText 
Count 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

1 
1 
1 

1 
1 
1 

short_script_url 
prod-js.aws.y-track.com/v5/profile-hub.min.js 
prod-js.aws.y-track.com/v5/profile-hub.min.js 

2 
2 
2  mmesbkildq-a.akamaihd.net/FLE5J21L2U.js 
2 
2  www.logistics.dhl/akam/10/4731bef2 
2 
2 
2  www.thehotelsnetwork.com/js/hotel_price_widget.js 

cdn3.streamlike.com/secure/player/js/clientjs.js 
cdn3.streamlike.com/secure/player/js/clientjs.js 

cdn3.streamlike.com/secure/player/js/clientjs.js 

2 
2 
2 

s3.amazonaws.com/dmp-pr-
production/JScript/fingerprintjs/fingerprint.js 
static.brandcrumb.com/bc.js 
cdn.doubleverify.com/dvtp_src_internal121.js 
d1af033869koo7.cloudfront.net/psp/platform/247px.j
s 

2 
2  www.thehotelsnetwork.com/js/hotel_price_widget.js 
2  m.stripe.network/inner.html 

Table 2: Detections through C1 pattern: javascript functions with 2 calls to fillText and 1 to toDataURL. 

 

•  Pattern C2: Calls from the same javascript function to canvas.fillText to render specific strings 
that  have  previously  been  identified  as  tell-tale  signs  of  the  use  of  canvas  fingerprinting 
techniques.  In  many  cases  these  are  open  code  functions very  accessible for any  developer. 
This  indicator  produces  results  with  practically  no  false  positives,  but  in  return  can  entail  a 
high number of false negatives due to the use of non-identified strings.  
Examples of detections using this pattern can be seen in Table 3 with the identified signatures 
in bold. 
 

visit_id 
92 
175 
215 
683 

861 
917 

927 

1897 

1897 
3723 

3857 

arguments 
{"0":"Hel$&?6%){mZ+#@","1":2,"2":2} 
{"0":"!H71JCaj)]# 1@#","1":4,"2":8} 
{"0":"http://valve.github.io","1":4,"2":17} 
{"0":"al;kscja;lkdfjkAKJKJX","1":4,"2":45} 
{"0":"ClientJS,org <canvas> 
1.0","1":4,"2":17} 
{"0":"!H71JCaj)]# 1@#","1":4,"2":8} 
{"0":"<@nv45. 
F1n63r,Pr1n71n6!","1":10,"2":40} 
{"0":"Cwm fjordbank glyphs vext quiz, 
","1":2,"2":15} 
{"0":"<@nv45. 
F1n63r,Pr1n71n6!","1":10,"2":40} 
{"0":"!image!","1":4,"2":17} 
{"0":"Cwm fjordbank glyphs vext quiz, 
","1":4,"2":45} 

KnowText 
Count 
1 
2 
2 
2 

2 
2 

1 

1 

1 
2 

2 

short_script_url 
www.iberia.com/ibcomv3/rbrand/scripts/libs/iberialib.js 
www.vueling.com/akam/10/392f2669 
prod-js.aws.y-track.com/v5/profile-hub.min.js 
mmesbkildq-a.akamaihd.net/FLE5J21L2U.js 

cdn3.streamlike.com/secure/player/js/clientjs.js 
www.logistics.dhl/akam/10/4731bef2 

www.adidas.es/_bm/async.js 

fba.omniretailgroup.net/main-bru-built.js 

www.toysrus.com/_bm/async.js 
cdn.doubleverify.com/dvtp_src_internal121.js 

d1af033869koo7.cloudfront.net/psp/platform/247px.js 

Table 3: Scripts that use text chains typical of libraries for canvas fingerprinting 

 

DETECTION OF CANVAS FONT FINGERPRINTING: 
To detect this technique, two patterns of identification have been used: 

 

 
 

•  Pattern  CF1:  Calls  to  canvas.measure  Text  from  the  same  javascript  function  on  multiple 
occasions (more than 30 for example). This form of detection can be refined if all calls use the 
same strings and changing the text font used on each occasion. 

 

27 

 
 

 

Table 4 shows examples of detections of this kind, as the “measureTextCount” column shows 
the number of calls to measure Text. 

visit_id 

func_name 
nds.common.bi.getFontMetrics 
nds.common.bi.getFontMetrics 
td_2C 
td_0s 
cp< 
td_1T 
cp< 
d 
r 

211 
212 
395 
1213 
1227 
1605 
2599 
3023 
3481 

measureText Count 

68 
68 
174 
174 

short_script_url 
api-ob.nd.nudatasecurity.com/2.2/w/w-766580/sync/js/ 
api-ob.nd.nudatasecurity.com/2.2/w/w-766580/sync/js/ 
regstat.betfair.com/fp/check.js 
cdn1.f-cdn.com/fp/check.js 

82  www.iberia.com/ibcomv3/rbrand/scripts/libs/iberialib.js 

174 

datawi.pokerstars.com/fp/check.js 

82  www.westernunion.com/etc/clientlibs/westernunion/wu_common.js 

497  mathid.mathtag.com/d/i.js 

58  m.stripe.network/inner.html 
Table 4: Scripts with functions that call to the measureText function on more than 30 occasions. 

 

•  Pattern  CF2:  Calls  from  canvas.measureText  with  typical  strings  of  functions  developed  to 

perform Canvas Font Fingerprinting.  
Table 5 shows examples of real detections that comply with these parameters. Just as in the 
previous  case,  this  method  provides  practically  no  false  positive  in  exchange  for  potentially 
many false negatives for use of unidentified text chains. 

visit_id 
211 
212 

395 

1213 
1227 
1415 
1435 

1605 

arguments 
{"0":"mmmmmmmmmmlli"} 
{"0":"mmmmmmmmmmlli"} 
{"0":"gMcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz012345
6789"} 
{"0":"gMcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz012345
6789"} 
{"0":"0-_{w."} 
{"0":"mmmmmmmmmmlli"} 
{"0":"mmmmmmmmmmlli"} 
{"0":"gMcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz012345
6789"} 

2599 

{"0":"0-_{w."} 

KnowFontText 
Count 

68 
68 

short_script_url 
api-ob.nd.nudatasecurity.com/2.2/w/w-766580/sync/js/ 
api-ob.nd.nudatasecurity.com/2.2/w/w-766580/sync/js/ 

174 

regstat.betfair.com/fp/check.js 

cdn1.f-cdn.com/fp/check.js 

174 
82  www.iberia.com/ibcomv3/rbrand/scripts/libs/iberialib.js 
58  m.stripe.network/inner.html 
58  m.stripe.network/inner.html 

174 

82 

datawi.pokerstars.com/fp/check.js 
www.westernunion.com/etc/clientlibs/westernunion/wu_com
mon.js 

Table 5: Scripts that use text chains typical of canvas font fingerprinting 

DETECTION OF WEBRTC AND AUDIOCONTEXT FINGERPRINTING: 
The detection of WebRTC and AudioContext fingerprinting is based on the identification of 
functions that make use of certain functions typical of these identification techniques.   

 
 

 

28 

 
 

 

ANNEX III 

 

  TABLE RESULTS OF ANALYSIS BY SUBJECT: 

webRTC  audiocontext  Total 

 

canvas 

sex 

sport 

21% 

21% 

canvas 

font 

3% 

5% 

20% 

19% 

pornography  16% 

1% 

23% 

religion 

health 

alcohol 

politics 

news 

betting 

drugs 

travel 

shopping 

home 

23% 

12% 

17% 

10% 

12% 

9% 

17% 

13% 

11% 

9% 

3% 

3% 

1% 

3% 

3% 

3% 

1% 

1% 

1% 

1% 

5% 

16% 

8% 

13% 

11% 

13% 

4% 

6% 

3% 

2% 

2% 

1% 

1% 

2% 

0% 

1% 

1% 

1% 

0% 

0% 

1% 

3% 

0% 

46% 

46% 

41% 

33% 

31% 

27% 

27% 

27% 

25% 

22% 

21% 

18% 

12% 

FINGERPRINTING TECHNIQUES DETECTED IN TEST OF 14,442 WEBSITES  

•  Websites that call functions with names alluding to fingerprinting on 1,107 visits, or 7.7% of 

the website visits. 

•  Websites with functions that use calls to toDataURL and fillText (C1 identification patter) 
typically used for Canvas Fingerprint, on 402 visits, or 2.8% of the total of the website visits. 
for  Canvas  Fingerprint 

functions  that  use  strings  typically  used 

•  Websites  with 

(identification pattern C2), on 369 visits, or 2.6% of the total of the website visits. 

•  Websites  with  functions  that  perform  more  than  30  calls  to  the  measureText  function 
(identification pattern CF1), typical in Canvas Font Fingerprinting, on 38 visits, or 0.26% of 
the website visits. 

•  Websites  with  functions  that  use  strings  typical  of  for  Canvas  Font  Fingerprint 

(identification pattern C2 ), on 43 visits, or 0.3% of the total of the websites visited. 

•  Websites  with  calls  to  the  onicecandidate,  typically  used  for  WebRTC  fingerprinting 

techniques to obtain the IP address of the device on 221 visits, or 1.5% of the visits. 

•  Websites with function calls typical of AudioContext Fingerprinting on 29 visits, or 0.2% of 

the website visits. 

ANALYSIS OF THE MOST POPULARLY USED SCRIPTS  
Percentage of use of some scripts where fingerprinting techniques have been detected. 

 
 

 

29 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

30 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

31 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

32 

 
 

USE OF DO NOT TRACK REQUEST 

Fingerprinting technique 

canvas: detection pattern C217 
canvas: detection pattern C1 
WebRTC: suspicious FP functions  
audiocontext: suspicious FP functions 
canvas: detection pattern CF2 
canvas font: detection pattern CF1 

% fingerprinting + 

DNT16 
96.12% 
93.97% 
72.18% 
64.29% 
60.00% 
58.14% 

EFFICIENCY OF MITIGATION MEASURES 

Fingerprinting 

technique 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

fingerprinting by function 

-5.0% 

-12.0% 

-5.9% 

-10.5% 

-85.3% 

-90.1% 

-85.3% 

name 

canvas: pattern C2 

-3.6% 

0.0% 

-13.5% 

-15.1% 

-35.4% 

-34.4% 

-36.5% 

canvas: pattern C1 

Canvas font: pattern CF2 
canvasfont:  pattern CF1 

webRTC 

audiocontext 

-2.5% 
-2.5% 
-2.4% 
-49.7% 
-12.7% 

1.0% 
-2.5% 
-2.4% 
-48.5% 
4.5% 

-19.2% 
0.0% 
0.0% 
-82.8% 
-12.7% 

-21.7% 
0.0% 
0.0% 
-83.4% 
-26.1% 

-40.9% 
-12.5% 
-13.8% 
-86.6% 
-43.3% 

-39.4% 
2.1% 
2.8% 
-86.0% 
-17.2% 

-41.9% 
-14.6% 
-16.7% 
-87.9% 
-47.8% 

 

                                                           
16  %  of  websites  where  fingerprinting  techniques  continue  to  be  detected  despite  having  previously  checked 
that the user has activated the DNT request.  
17 Information on some detection patterns Annex II. 

 
 

 

33 

