 
ARTICLE 29 DATA PROTECTION WORKING PARTY 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

16/EN  
WP 244 rev.01 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Guidelines for identifying a controller or processor’s lead supervisory authority 

 
 

Adopted on 13 December 2016 

As last Revised and Adopted on 5 April 2017 

 

This Working Party was set up under Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC. It is an independent European advisory body on data 
protection and privacy. Its tasks are described in Article 30 of Directive 95/46/EC and Article 15 of Directive 2002/58/EC. 

The  secretariat  is  provided  by  Directorate  C  (Fundamental  rights  and  rule  of  law)  of  the  European  Commission,  Directorate 
General Justice and Consumers, B-1049 Brussels, Belgium, Office No MO59 05/35 

Website: http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/index_en.htm 

 

  

 
1. 

Table of Content 

Identifying a lead supervisory authority: the key concepts. .............................................. 3 

1.1 

‘Cross-border processing of personal data’. ................................................................... 3 

1.1.1 

‘Substantially affects’. ................................................................................................. 3 

1.2 

Lead supervisory authority. ............................................................................................ 4 

1.3  Main establishment. ........................................................................................................ 5 

2.  Steps to identify the lead supervisory authority ................................................................. 5 

2.1  

Identify the ‘main establishment’ for controllers ............................................................ 5 

2.1.1 
Criteria for identifying a controller’s main establishment in cases where it is not the 
place of its central administration in the EU. ............................................................................. 6 

2.1.2  Groups of undertakings ............................................................................................... 7 

2.1.3 

Joint data controllers ................................................................................................... 7 

2.2  Borderline cases .............................................................................................................. 8 

2.3 

Processor ......................................................................................................................... 9 

3.  Other relevant issues .......................................................................................................... 9 

3.1 

3.2 

The role of the ’supervisory authority concerned’ .......................................................... 9 

Local processing. .......................................................................................................... 10 

3.3  Companies not established within the EU. ................................................................... 10 

ANNEX - Questions to guide the identification of the lead supervisory authority ................. 11 

 

 
 
 

 

2 

1.  Identifying a lead supervisory authority: the key concepts. 
 
1.1 

‘Cross-border processing of personal data’.  
 

Identifying a lead supervisory authority is only relevant where a controller or processor is 
carrying out the cross-border processing of personal data. Article 4(23) of the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) defines ‘cross-border processing’ as either the:  
 

-  processing of personal data which takes place in the context of the activities of 

establishments in more than one Member State of a controller or processor in the 
Union where the controller or processor is established in more than one Member 
State; or the 

 

-  processing of personal data which takes place in the context of the activities of a 

single establishment of a controller or processor in the Union but which substantially 
affects or is likely to substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State. 

‘Substantially affects’. 

 
This means that where an organisation has establishments in France and Romania, for 
example, and the processing of personal data takes place in the context of their activities, then 
this will constitute cross-border processing.  
 
Alternatively,  the  organisation  may  only  carry  out  processing  activity  in  the  context  of  its 
establishment  in  France.  However,  if  the  activity  substantially  affects  –  or  is  likely  to 
substantially affect - data subjects in France and Romania then this will also constitute cross-
border processing.   
 
1.1.1 
 
The  GDPR  does  not  define  ‘substantially’  or  ‘affects’.  The intention  of  the  wording  was  to 
ensure that not all processing activity, with any effect and that takes place within the context 
of a single establishment, falls within the definition of ‘cross-border processing’.  
 
The  most  relevant  ordinary  English  meanings  of  ‘substantial’  include;  ‘of  ample  or 
considerable  amount  or  size;  sizeable,  fairly  large’,  or  ‘having  solid  worth  or  value,  of  real 
significance; solid; weighty, important’ (Oxford English Dictionary).  
 
The  most  relevant  meaning  of  the  verb  ‘affect’  is  ‘to  influence’  or  ‘to  make  a  material 
impression  on’.  The  related  noun  -‘effect’-  means,  amongst  other  things,  ‘a  result’  or  ‘a 
consequence’  (Oxford  English  Dictionary).  This  suggests  that  for  data  processing  to  affect 
someone  it  must  have  some  form  of  impact  on  them.  Processing  that  does  not  have  a 
substantial  effect  on  individuals  does  not  fall  within  the  second  part  of  the  definition  of 
‘cross-border processing’. However, it would fall within the first part of the definition where 
the processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of establishments in 
more than one Member State of a controller or processor in the Union, where the controller or 
processor is established in more than one Member State. 
 
Processing can be brought within the second part of the definition if there is the likelihood of 
a substantial effect, not just  an actual  substantial effect.  Note  that ‘likely to’ does not  mean 
that there is a remote possibility of a substantial effect. The substantial effect must be more 
likely than not.  On the other hand, it also means that individuals do not have to be actually 

 

3 

affected: the likelihood of a substantial effect is sufficient to bring the processing within the 
definition of ‘cross-border processing’.  
 
The  fact  that  a  data  processing  operation  may  involve  the processing of  a  number  –  even  a 
large  number  –  of  individuals’  personal  data,  in  a  number  of  Member  States,  does  not 
necessarily mean that the processing has, or is likely to have, a substantial effect. Processing 
that  does  not  have  a  substantial  effect  does  not  constitute  cross-border  processing  for  the 
purposes of the second part of the definition, regardless of how many individuals it affects.  
 
Supervisory Authorities will interpret ‘substantially affects’ on a case by case basis. We will 
take into account the context of the processing, the type of data, the purpose of the processing 
and factors such as whether the processing: 
 

o  causes, or is likely to cause, damage, loss or distress to individuals; 
o  has,  or  is  likely  to  have,  an  actual  effect  in  terms  of  limiting  rights  or  denying  an 

opportunity; 

o  affects, or is likely to affect individuals’ health, well-being or peace of mind; 
o  affects,  or  is  likely  to  affect,  individuals’  financial  or  economic  status  or 

o 
o 

circumstances; 
leaves individuals open to discrimination or unfair treatment; 
involves  the  analysis  of  the  special  categories  of  personal  or  other  intrusive  data, 
particularly  the personal data of children; 

o  causes, or is likely to cause individuals to change their behaviour in a significant way; 
o  has unlikely, unanticipated or unwanted consequences for individuals;  
o  creates embarrassment or other negative outcomes, including reputational damage; or 
o 

involves the processing of a wide range of personal data. 

Lead supervisory authority. 

 
Ultimately, the test of ‘substantial effect’ is intended to ensure that supervisory authorities are 
only  required to  co-operate  formally  through the GDPR’s consistency mechanism  "where a 
supervisory authority intends to adopt a measure intended to produce legal effects as regards 
processing  operations  which  substantially  affect  a  significant  number  of  data  subjects  in 
several Member States”. (Recital 135) 
 
1.2 
 
Put simply, a ‘lead supervisory authority’ is the authority with the primary responsibility for 
dealing with a cross-border data processing activity, for example when a data subject makes a 
complaint about the processing of his or her personal data. 
 
The lead supervisory authority will coordinate any investigation, involving other ‘concerned’ 
supervisory authorities.  
 
Identifying  the  lead  supervisory  authority  depends  on  determining  the  location  of  the 
controller’s ‘main establishment’ or ‘single establishment’ in the EU. Article 56 of the GDPR 
says that: 
 

- 

the supervisory authority of the main establishment or of the single establishment of 
the controller or processor shall be competent to act as lead supervisory authority for 
the cross-border processing carried out by that controller or processor in accordance 
with the [cooperation] procedure provided in Article 60. 

 

4 

 
1.3  Main establishment. 
 
Article 4(16) of the GDPR states that ‘main establishment’ means:  
 

 

-  as regards a controller with establishments in more than one Member State, the place 
of its central administration in the Union, unless the decisions on the purposes and 
means  of  the  processing  of  personal  data  are  taken  in  another  establishment  of  the 
controller  in  the  Union  and  the  latter  establishment  has  the  power  to  have  such 
decisions implemented, in which case the establishment having taken such decisions 
is to be considered to be the main establishment;  

-  as regards a processor with establishments in more than one Member State, the place 
of  its  central  administration  in  the  Union,  or,  if  the  processor  has  no  central 
administration  in  the  Union,  the  establishment  of  the  processor  in  the  Union  where 
the main processing activities in the context of the activities of an establishment of the 
processor take place to the extent that the processor is subject to specific obligations 
under this Regulation; 

Steps to identify the lead supervisory authority 

Identify the ‘main establishment’ for controllers 

 
2.   
 
2.1  
 
In  order  to  establish  where  the  main  establishment  is,  it  is  firstly  necessary  to  identify  the 
central administration of the data controller in the EU, if any.1  The approach implied in the 
GDPR  is  that  the  central  administration  in  the  EU  is  the  place  where  decisions  about  the 
purposes and means of the processing of personal data are taken and this place has the power 
to have such decisions implemented. 
 
The  essence  of  the  lead  authority  principle  in  the  GDPR  is  that  the  supervision  of  cross-
border processing should be led by only one supervisory authority in the EU. In  cases where 
decisions  relating  to  different  cross-border  processing  activities  are  taken  within  the  EU 
central  administration,  there  will  be  a  single  lead  supervisory  authority  for  the  various  data 
processing activities carried out by the multinational company. However, there may be cases 
where  an  establishment  other  than  the  place  of  central  administration  makes  autonomous 
decisions  concerning  the  purposes  and  means  of  a  specific  processing  activity.  This  means 
that there can be situations where more than one lead authority can be identified, i.e. in cases 
where a multinational company decides to have separate decision making centres, in different 
countries, for different processing activities.  
 
It is worth recalling, that where a multinational company centralises all the decisions relating 
to the purposes and means of processing activities in one of its establishments in the EU (and 
that  establishment  has  the  power  to  implement  such  decisions),  only  one  lead  supervisory 
authority will be identified for the multinational.  
 

                                                 
1 The GDPR is relevant for the EEA and will apply after its incorporation into the EEA Agreement. The GDPR 
is currently under scrutiny for incorporation, see http://www.efta.int/eea-lex/32016R0679  
 

 

5 

In these situations it will be essential for companies to identify precisely where the decisions 
on  purpose  and  means  of  processing  are  taken.  Correct  identification  of  the  main 
establishment  is  in  the  interests  of  controllers  and  processors  because  it  provides  clarity  in 
terms  of  which  supervisory  authority  they  have  to  deal  with  in  respect  of  their  various 
compliance  duties  under  the  GDPR.  These  may  include,  where  relevant,  designating  a  data 
protection  officer  or  consulting  for  a  risky  processing  activity  that  the  controller  cannot 
mitigate  by  reasonable  means.  The  relevant  provisions  of  the  GDPR  are  intended  to  make 
these compliance tasks manageable.  
 
The examples below illustrate this: 
 
Example 1:  A food  retailer has  its headquarters (i.e. its ‘place  of central administration’) in 
Rotterdam,  Netherlands.  It  has  establishments  in  various  other  EU  countries,  which  are  in 
contact with individuals there. All establishments make use of the same software to process 
consumers’  personal  data  for  marketing  purposes.  All  the  decisions  about  the  purposes  and 
means of the processing of consumers’ personal data for marketing purposes are taken within 
its Rotterdam headquarters. This means that the company’s lead supervisory authority for this 
cross border processing activity is the Netherlands supervisory authority.  
 
Example  2:  A  bank  has  its  corporate  headquarters  in  Frankfurt,  and  all2  its  banking 
processing  activities  are  organised  from  there,  but  its  insurance  department  is  located  in 
Vienna.  If  the  establishment  in  Vienna  has  the  power  to  decide  on  all  insurance  data 
processing activity  and to implement these decisions for the whole EU, then as foreseen in 
Art  4(16)  of  the  GDPR,  the  Austrian  supervisory  authority  would  be  the  lead  authority  in 
respect  of  the  cross  border  processing  of  personal  data  for    insurance  purposes,  and  the 
German  authorities  (Hessen  supervisory  authority)  would  supervise  the  processing  of 
personal data for banking purposes, wherever the clients are located. 3  
 
2.1.1  Criteria for identifying a controller’s main establishment in cases where it is not 
the place of its central administration in the EU. 
 
Recital 36 of the GDPR is useful in clarifying the main factor that shall be used to determine 
a controller’s main establishment if the criterion of the central administration does not apply. 
This involves identifying where the effective and real exercise of management activities, that 
determine  the  main  decisions  as  to  the  purposes  and  means  of  processing  through  stable 
arrangements,  takes  place.  Recital  36  also  clarifies  that  “the  presence  and  use  of  technical 
means  and  technologies  for  processing  personal  data  or  processing  activities  do  not,  in 
themselves,  constitute  a  main  establishment  and  are  therefore  not  determining  criteria  for  a 
main establishment”.  
 
                                                 
2  In  the  context  of  processing  personal  data  for  banking  purposes,  we  recognise  that  are  many  different 
processing activities involved in this. However, to simplify matters, we address all of them as a single purpose. 
The same is true of processing done for insurance purposes. 
3 It should be recalled also that the GDPR provides for the possibility of local oversight in specific cases. See  
Recital  (127):  “Each  supervisory  authority  not  acting  as  the  lead  supervisory  authority  should  be  competent  to 
handle local cases where the controller or processor is established in more than one Member State, but the subject 
matter of the specific processing concerns  only processing carried out in a single Member State and involves only 
data  subjects  in  that  single  Member  State,  for  example,  where  the  subject  matter  concerns  the  processing  of 
employees'  personal  data  in  the  specific  employment  context  of  a  Member  State.”  This  principle  means  that  the 
supervision of HR data connected to local employment context could fall to several supervisory authorities. 

 

6 

The  data  controller  itself  identifies  where  its  main  establishment  is  and  therefore  which 
supervisory authority is its lead authority. However, this can be challenged by the respective 
supervisory authority concerned afterwards.  
 
The  factors  below  are  useful  for  determining  the  location  of  a  controller’s  main 
establishment, according to the terms of the GDPR, in cases where it is not the location of its 
central administration in the EU.  

 

o  Where are decisions about the purposes and means of the processing given final ‘sign 

off’? 

o  Where are decisions about business activities that involve data processing made? 
o  Where does the power to have decisions implemented effectively lie? 
o  Where  is  the  Director  (or  Directors)  with  overall  management  responsibility  for  the 

cross border processing located? 

o  Where is the controller or processor registered as a company, if in a single territory? 

 
Note  that  this  is  not  an  exhaustive  list.  Other  factors  may  be  relevant  depending  on  the 
controller  or processing activity in  question. If a supervisory authority has  reasons to doubt 
that the establishment identified by the controller is in reality the main establishment for the 
purposes  of  the  GDPR,  it  can  –  of  course  –  require  the  controller  to  provide  the  additional 
information necessary for it to prove where its main establishment is located.  
 
2.1.2  Groups of undertakings 
 
Where  processing  is  carried  out  by  a  group  of  undertakings  that  has  its  headquarters  in  the 
EU, the establishment of the undertaking with overall control is presumed to be the decision-
making centre relating to the processing of personal data, and will therefore be considered to 
be  the  main  establishment  for  the  group,  except  where  decisions  about  the  purposes  and 
means  of  processing  are  taken  by  another  establishment.  The  parent,  or  operational 
headquarters of the group of undertakings in the EU, is likely to be the main establishment, 
because that would be the place of its central administration.  

 

The reference in the definition to the place of a controller’s central administration works well 
for  organisations  that  have  a  centralised  decision-making  headquarters  and  branch-type 
structure.  In  such  cases  it is  clear that  the  power  to  make  decisions  about  cross-border  data 
processing,  and  to  have  them  carried  out,  lies  within  the  company’s  headquarters.  In  such 
cases, determining the location of the main establishment – and therefore which supervisory 
authority is the lead supervisory authority - is straightforward. However, the decision system 
of group of companies could be more complex, giving independent making powers relating to 
cross  border  processing  to  different  establishments.  The  criteria  set  out  above  should  help 
groups of undertakings to identify their main establishment.  
 
2.1.3  Joint data controllers 
 
The GDPR does not specifically deal with the issue of designating a lead authority where two 
or  more  controllers  established  in  the  EU  jointly  determine  the  purposes  and  means  of 
processing  –  i.e.  joint  controllers.  Article  26(1)  and  Recital  79  make  it  clear  that  in  joint 
controller situations, the controllers shall in a transparent manner determine their respective 
responsibilities  for  compliance  with  their  obligations  under  the  Regulation.  In  order, 
therefore,  to  benefit  from  the  one-stop-shop  principle,  the joint  controllers  should  designate 

 

7 

Borderline cases  

(among  the  establishments  where  decisions  are  taken)  which  establishment  of  the  joint 
controllers will have the power to implement decisions  about the processing with respect to 
all joint controllers. This establishment will then be considered to be the main establishment 
for  the  processing  carried  out  in  the  joint  controller  situation.  The  arrangement  of  the  joint 
controllers  is  without  prejudice  to  the  liability  rules  provided  in  the  GDPR,  in  particular  in 
Article 82(4). 
 
2.2 
 
There  will  be  borderline  and  complex  situations  where  it  is  difficult  to  identify  the  main 
establishment or to determine where decisions about data processing are taken. This might be 
the  case  where  there  is  cross-border  processing  activity  and  the  controller  is  established  in 
several Member States, but there is no central administration in the EU and none of the EU 
establishments are taking decisions about the processing (i.e. decisions are taken exclusively 
outside of the EU). 
  
In  the  case  above,  the  company  carrying  out  cross  border  processing  may  be  keen  to  be 
regulated  by  a  lead  authority  to  benefit  from  the  one-stop-shop  principle.  However,  the 
GDPR  does  not  provide  a  solution  for  situations  like  this.  In  these  circumstances,  the 
company  should  designate  the  establishment  that  has  the  authority  to  implement  decisions 
about  the  processing  activity  and  to  take  liability  for  the  processing,  including  having 
sufficient  assets,  as  its  main  establishment.  If  the  company  does  not  designate  a  main 
establishment  in  this  way,  it  will  not  be  possible  to  designate  a  lead  authority.  Supervisory 
authorities will always be able to investigate further where this is appropriate. 
 
The  GDPR  does  not  permit  ‘forum  shopping’.  If  a  company  claims  to  have  its  main 
establishment in one Member State, but no effective and real exercise of management activity 
or    decision  making  over  the  processing  of  personal  data  takes  place  there,  the  relevant 
supervisory  authorities  (or  ultimately  EDPB)  will  decide  which  supervisory  authority  is  the 
‘lead’, using objective criteria and looking at the evidence. The process of determining where 
the  main  establishment  is  may  require  active  inquiry  and  co-operation  by  the  supervisory 
authorities.  Conclusions  cannot  be  based  solely  on  statements  by  the  organisation  under 
review. The burden of proof ultimately falls on controllers and processors to demonstrate to 
the  relevant  supervisory  authorities  where  the  relevant  processing  decisions  are  taken  and 
where  there  is  the  power  to  implement  such  decisions.  Effective  records  of  data  processing 
activity  would  help  both  organisations  and  supervisory  authorities  to  determine  the  lead 
authority. The lead supervisory authority, or concerned authorities, can rebut the controller’s 
analysis  based  on  an  objective  examination  of  the  relevant  facts,  requesting  further 
information where required. 
 
In  some  cases  the  relevant  supervisory  authorities  will  ask  the  controller  to  provide  clear 
evidence,  in  line  with  any  EDPB  guidelines,  of  where  its  main  establishment  is,  or  where 
decisions  about  a  particular  data  processing  activity  are  taken.  This  evidence  will  be  given 
due  weight  and  the  supervisory  authorities  involved  will  co-operate  to  decide  which  one  of 
them will take the lead in investigations. Such cases will only be referred to the EDPB for a 
decision under Article 65(1)(b) where supervisory authorities have conflicting views in terms 
of  identifying  the  lead  supervisory  authority.  However,  in  most  cases,  we  expect  that  the 
relevant supervisory authorities will be able to agree a mutually satisfactory course of action.  
 
 

 

8 

Processor 

2.3 
  
The  GDPR  also  offers  the  one-stop-shop  system  for  the  benefit  of  data  processors  that  are 
subject to GDPR and have establishments in more than one Member State. 
  
Article 4(16)(b) of the GDPR states that the processor’s main establishment will be the place 
of  the  central  administration  of  the  processor  in  the  EU  or,  if  there  is  no  central 
administration in the EU, the establishment in the EU where the main processing (processor) 
activities take place. 
  
However,  according  to  Recital  36,  in  cases  involving  both  controller  and  processor,  the 
competent  lead  supervisory  authority  should  be  the  lead  supervisory  authority  for  the 
controller. In this situation, the supervisory authority of the processor will be a ‘supervisory 
authority concerned’ and should participate in the cooperation procedure. This rule will only 
apply where the controller is established in the EU. In cases when controllers are subject to 
the GDPR on the basis of Art 3(2), they will not be subject to the one-stop-shop mechanism. 
A processor may provide services to multiple controllers located in different Member States – 
for example, a large cloud-service provider. In such cases, the lead supervisory authority will 
be the supervisory authority that is competent to act as lead for the controller. In effect, this 
means a processor may have to deal with multiple supervisory authorities.  
 
3.        Other relevant issues 

 

The role of the ’supervisory authority concerned’ 

3.1 
 
GDPR Article 4(22) says that the:  
 

‘supervisory authority concerned’ means a supervisory authority which is concerned 
by  the  processing  of  personal  data  because:  (a)  the  controller  or  processor  is 
established  on  the  territory  of  the  Member  State  of  that  supervisory  authority;  (b) 
data  subjects  residing  in  the  Member  State  of  that  supervisory  authority  are 
substantially affected or likely to be substantially affected by the processing; or (c) a 
complaint has been lodged with that supervisory authority.  

 

The concept of a concerned supervisory authority is meant to ensure that the ‘lead authority’ 
model  does  not  prevent  other  supervisory  authorities  having  a  say  in  how  a  matter  is  dealt 
with  when,  for  example,  individuals  residing  outside  the  lead  authority’s  jurisdiction  are 
substantially  affected  by  a  data  processing  activity.  In  terms  of  factor  (a)  above,  the  same 
considerations as for identifying a lead authority apply. Note that in (b) the data subject must 
merely reside in the Member State in question; he or she does not have to be a citizen of that 
state. It will generally be easy – in (c) to determine – as a matter of fact – whether a particular 
supervisory authority has received a complaint.   
 
Article 56, paragraphs (2) and (5) of the GDPR provide for a concerned supervisory authority 
to take a role in dealing with a case without being the lead supervisory authority. When a lead 
supervisory authority decides  not to handle a case, the concerned supervisory authority that 
informed  the  lead  shall  handle  it.  This  is  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  in  Article  61 
(Mutual assistance) and Article 62 (Joint operations of supervisory authorities) of the GDPR. 
This  might  be  the  case  where  a  marketing  company  with  its  main  establishment  in  Paris 
launches  a  product  that  only  affects  data  subjects  residing  in  Portugal.  In  such  a  case  the 

 

9 

French  and  Portuguese  supervisory  authorities  might  agree  that  it  is  appropriate  for  the 
Portuguese  supervisory  authority  to  take  the  lead  in  dealing  with  the  matter.  Supervisory 
authorities  may  request  that  data  controllers  provide  input  in  terms  of  clarifying  their 
corporate arrangements. Given that the processing activity has a purely local effect – i.e. on 
individuals  in  Portugal  –  the  French  and  Portuguese  supervisory  authorities  have  the 
discretion to decide which supervisory authority should deal with the matter – in accordance 
with Recital 127. 
  
The  GDPR  requires  lead  and  concerned  supervisory  authorities  to  co-operate,  with  due 
respect  for  each  other’s  views,  to  ensure  a  matter  is  investigated  and  resolved  to  each 
authority’s  satisfaction  –  and  with  an  effective  remedy  for  data  subjects.  Supervisory 
authorities  should  endeavour  to  reach  a  mutually  acceptable  course  of  action.  The  formal 
consistency mechanism should only be invoked where co-operation does not reach a mutually 
acceptable outcome.   
 
The  mutual  acceptance  of  decisions  can  apply  to  substantive  conclusions,  but  also  to  the 
course  of  action  decided  upon,  including  enforcement  activity  (e.g.  full  investigation  or  an 
investigation  with  limited  scope).  It  can  also  apply  to  a  decision  not  to  handle  a  case  in 
accordance with GDPR, for example because of a formal policy of prioritisation, or because 
there are other concerned authorities as described above.  
 
The development of consensus and good will between supervisory authorities is essential to 
the success of the GDPR’s cooperation and consistency process.  
 
3.2 
 
Local data processing activity does not fall within the GDPR’s cooperation and consistency 
provisions.  Supervisory  authorities  will  respect  each  other’s  competence  to  deal  with  local 
data  processing  activity  on  a  local  basis.  Processing  carried  out  by  public  authorities  will 
always be dealt with on a ‘local’ basis too.  
 
3.3 
 
The  GDPR’s  cooperation  and  consistency  mechanism  only  applies  to  controllers  with  an 
establishment, or establishments, within the European Union.  If the company does not have 
an establishment in the EU, the mere presence of a representative in a Member State does not 
trigger  the  one-stop-shop  system.  This  means  that  controllers  without  any  establishment  in 
the EU must deal with local supervisory authorities in every Member State they are active in, 
through their local representative.  

Companies not established within the EU.   

Local processing.  

 

 

 

Done in Brussels, on 13 December 2016 

For the Working Party, 
The Chairwoman 
Isabelle FALQUE-PIERROTIN 

As last revised and adopted on 05 April 2017 

For the Working Party 
The Chairwoman 
Isabelle FALQUE-PIERROTIN 

10 

ANNEX - Questions to guide the identification of the lead supervisory authority 
  
1. 

Is  the  controller  or  processor  carrying  out  the  cross-border  processing  of 
personal data? 

  

 
  

 

a.  Yes, if: 

 
 
 

the controller or processor is established in more than one Member State and  
the processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of 
establishments in more than one Member State. 

  In this case, go to section 2.  

b.  Yes, if: 

 

 

the processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of a data 
controller or processor’s single establishment in the Union, but: 

  substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect individuals in more than one 

Member State.  
 

  In this case, the lead authority is the authority for the controller or processor’s single 
establishment  in  a  single  Member  State.  This  must  –  by  logic  -  be  the  controller  or 
processor’s main establishment because it is its only establishment.  

    
  
2.        How to identify the ‘lead supervisory authority’ 
  

In a case involving only a controller:  
 
i. 

Identify the controller’s place of central administration in the EU;  
 
The  supervisory  authority  of  the  country  where  the  place  of  central 
administration is located is the controller’s lead authority.  

ii. 

 
However:  
 
iii. 

If decisions on the purposes and means of the processing are taken in another 
establishment  in  the  EU,  and  that  establishment  has  the  power  to  implement 
those decisions, then the lead authority is the one located in the country where 
this establishment is. 

In a case involving a controller and a processor: 
 
i. 

Check  if  the  controller  is  established  in  the  EU  and  subject  to  the  one-stop-
shop system. If so, 
 
Identify  the  lead  supervisory  authority  of  the  controller.  This  authority  will 
also be the  lead supervisory authority for the processor. 

ii. 

11 

a. 

b. 

 
  

 

  

c. 

iii. 

 
 The  (non-lead)  supervisory  authority  competent  for  the  processor  will  be  a 
‘concerned authority’ – see 3 below. 

In a case involving only a processor: 
 
i. 

Identify the processor’s place of central administration in the EU; 
 
ii. 
If  the  processor  has  no  central  administration  in  the  EU,  identify  the 
establishment  in  the  EU  where  the  main  processing    activities  of  the  processor  take 
place. 
 

d. 

In a case involving joint controllers: 
 

i. Check if the joint controllers are established in the EU. 
 
ii. Designate among the establishments where decisions on the purposes and means of 
the  processing  are  taken  the  establishment  which  has  the  power  to  implement  these 
decisions  with  respect  to  all  joint  controllers.  This  establishment  will  then  be 
considered  to  be  the  main  establishment  for  the  processing  carried  out  by  the  joint 
controllers.  The  lead  authority  is  the  one  located  in  the  country  where  this 
establishment is. 
  

3.       Are there any ‘concerned supervisory authorities’? 
 
An authority is a ‘concerned authority’: 
 

  when the controller or processor has an establishment  on its territory, or: 

 

 

 
 

 

  when  data  subjects  on  its  territory  are  substantially  affected  or  likely  to  be 

substantially affected by the processing, or: 

  when a complaint is received by a particular authority. 

12 

