Article 65 FAQ  
 
 
How does cross-border cooperation work under the GDPR?  

 

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requires the Supervisory Authorities (SAs) 
of  the  European  Economic  Area  (EEA)  to  cooperate  closely  -  under  the  umbrella  of  the 
European Data Protection Board (EDPB) - to ensure the consistent application of the GDPR 
and the protection of individuals’ data protection rights across the EEA. One of their tasks is 
to coordinate decision-making in cross-border data processing cases.  

 

A processing is cross-border when: 

  data processing takes place in more than one country;  
  or it substantially affects or it is likely to substantially affect individuals in more 

than one country. 

 

Under  the  so-called  one-stop-shop  mechanism  (Art.  60  GDPR),  the  Lead  Supervisory 
Authority (LSA) acts as the main point of contact for the controller or processor for a given 
processing,  while  the  Concerned  Supervisory  Authorities  (CSAs)  act  as  the  main  point  of 
contact for individuals in the territory of their Member State. The LSA is the authority in charge 
of leading the cooperation process. It will share relevant information with the CSAs, carry out 
the investigations, prepare the draft decision relating to the case, and cooperate with the other 
CSAs in an endeavour to reach consensus on this draft decision.  
 
What is the dispute resolution mechanism of Art. 65 GDPR? 

 

When a Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) issues a draft decision, it consults the Concerned 
Supervisory Authorities (CSAs), which can express their disagreement with the draft decision 
by submitting relevant and reasoned objections (RRO) within a period of four weeks (Art. 60 
(4) GDPR).  

 

When none of the CSAs objects, the LSA may proceed to adopt the decision.  

 

In case at least one of the CSAs has expressed an RRO, and if the LSA intends to follow the 
objection, it shall submit a revised draft decision to all the CSAs. The CSAs then have a period 
of two weeks (Art. 60 (5) GDPR) to express their RROs to the revised draft decision.  

 

However,  if  the  LSA  does  not  intend  to  follow  the  objection(s),  since  no  consensus  can  be 
reached, the consistency mechanism is triggered. This means that the LSA is obliged to refer 
the case to the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) and the dispute resolution role of the 
EDPB is activated (Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR). 

 

The dispute resolution mechanism can be triggered in two further cases:  

there is a disagreement as to which authority is the LSA (Art. 65(1)(b) GDPR); 

  
 
  an SA does not  seek the opinion of the EDPB as obliged under 64(1) GDPR or 
does not follow such an opinion (Art. 64(1) and (2) GDPR) (Art. 65(1)(c) GDPR).  

 

 
 

What is the purpose of the dispute resolution mechanism of Art. 65(1)(a) and (b) GDPR? 

 

The dispute resolution mechanism triggered under Art.65(1)(a) and (b) GDPR contributes to 
the  good  functioning  of  the  cooperation  mechanism  by  addressing  any  disagreements 
Concerned Supervisory Authorities (CSAs) may have in a given case or if there are conflicting 
views as to which authority is the Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA).  

 

The EDPB will act as a dispute resolution body. It must adopt a decision to address the conflict 
between the involved SAs, which is binding on them (Art. 65 GDPR). The decision is adopted 
by a two-thirds majority of the members of the Board, and in case a decision cannot be adopted 
within 2 months, the decision is adopted within the next 2 weeks by a simple majority.   
 
 
In which cases is the dispute resolution mechanism of Art. 65(1)(c) GDPR triggered? 

 

While  Art.  65  (a)  and  (b)  relate  to  the  one-stop-mechanism,  Art.65(1)(c)  GDPR  concerns 
obligations of Supervisory Authorities (SAs)s stemming from the consistency mechanism.   

 

More  specifically,  every  competent  SA  has  the  duty  to  request  an  opinion  from  the  EDPB 
before adopting national measures pursuant to article 64(1) GDPR. Such measures include lists 
of processing operations for which a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) is required, 
or the approval of a new set of standard clauses. In addition, under Art. 64(2) GDPR, any SA 
may  also  request  an  EDPB  consistency  opinion  on  any  matter  of  general  application  or 
producing effects in more than one Member State.  

 

If an SA does not request the opinion of the EDPB for the cases listed under Art. 64(1) GDPR 
or does not follow the EDPB opinion issued under Art. 64 GDPR, any SA and the European 
Commission  can  launch  the  dispute  resolution  procedure  of  Art.  65(1)(c)  GDPR  about  the 
matter.  
 

The dispute resolution mechanism of Art. 65 GDPR has been triggered - what happens next? 
 
Within one month from the referral of the subject matter, the EDPB must adopt a decision by 
a two-thirds majority. The one-month deadline to adopt this binding decision can be extended 
by another month, if the case is complex. When the EDPB is not able to reach a decision within 
the  abovementioned  period,  the  decision  must  be  adopted  by  a  simple  majority  within  two 
additional weeks. Should the members of the EDPB be split, the decision will be adopted by 
the vote of the EDPB Chair.  

 

The  EDPB  has  adopted  its  binding  decision:  when  is  it  notified  to  the  relevant  national 
Supervisory Authorities (SAs) and in which language?  
 
Once the EDPB has adopted a binding decision, the EDPB Chair notifies the binding decision 
to the relevant national SAs without undue delay.   
 
Prior to the notification, the binding decision is translated into the languages of the relevant 
national SAs that have to adopt a final decision or take measures at national level on the basis 

of the binding decision1. Translation and proofreading can take a few weeks. In any case, the 
English version of the decision is the only authentic language version. 
 
What is the next step for the relevant Supervisory Authorities (SAs)? 
 
Once the relevant SAs have been notified of the binding decision, a decision has to be adopted 
at national level to implement the content of the binding decision. This decision will be adopted 
without undue delay and at the latest one month after the EDPB has notified its decision. 
 
For cross-border cases where no consensus was found (Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR), the final decision 
will be addressed to the controller or processor and, where relevant, to the complainant.  
 
When will the EDPB’s decision be published in those cases where it settles conflicting views 
on a draft decision or where it decides on the Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA)?  
 
Once the LSA or, in some cases the Concerned Supervisory Authority (CSA), with which the 
complaint was lodged has notified the EDPB of the date its final decision was communicated 
to the controller or processor and, where relevant, to the complainant, the EDPB will publish 
its own decision on its website. 
 
Can a Supervisory Authority (SA) challenge an Art. 65 GDPR decision by the EDPB?  
 
As addressees of the EDPB decisions, the relevant SAs that wish to challenge these decisions 
can bring  an action  for  annulment  before the European Court of Justice (CJEU)  within two 
months of being notified. 
 
 
 

                                                 
1 Please see paragraphs 6 and 7 of Art. 11 of the EDPB Rules of Procedure. In exceptional cases, other CSAs can 
request, providing the reasons, an urgent translation in their official EU language(s) no later than at the moment 
of adoption of the binding decision. 

