Guidelines 04/2022 on the Calculation of Fines under the GDPR  
Version 2.0  
Adopted on May 24, 2023  
***Unofficial Translation  
European Data Protection Board  

Guidelines  

Adopted  
Adopted  
Version History  
Version 1.0  
May 12, 2022  
Adoption of the Guidelines for public consultation  
Version 2.0  
May 24, 2023  
Adoption of the Guidelines following public consultation  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) has adopted these guidelines to harmonize the methodology used by supervisory authorities when calculating the amount of the fine. These Guidelines complement the previously adopted Guidelines on the application and imposition of administrative fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 (WP253), which focus on the circumstances under which a fine is imposed.  
The calculation of the fine amount is at the discretion of the supervisory authority, subject to the rules set out in the GDPR. In this context, the GDPR requires that the amount of the fine be effective, proportionate, and dissuasive in each case (Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR). Furthermore, when determining the amount of the fine, supervisory authorities shall duly take into account a list of circumstances relating to the characteristics of the infringement (its severity) or the nature of the offender (Article 83, paragraph 2, of the GDPR). Finally, the amount of the fine shall not exceed the maximum amounts provided for in Article 83, paragraph 4, paragraphs 5 and 6, of the GDPR. Therefore, the quantification of the fine amount is based on a specific assessment carried out in each case, within the parameters set by the GDPR.  
In light of the above, the EDPB has developed the following methodology, consisting of five steps, for calculating administrative fines for infringements of the GDPR.  
First, the processing operations in the case must be identified and the application of Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR must be assessed (Chapter 3). Second, the starting point for the subsequent calculation of the fine amount must be identified (Chapter 4). This is done by evaluating the classification of the infringement under the GDPR, assessing the severity of the infringement in light of the circumstances of the case, and evaluating the turnover of the company. The third step is the assessment of aggravating and mitigating circumstances related to the past or present behavior of the controller/processor and the increase or decrease of the fine accordingly (Chapter 5). The fourth step involves identifying the relevant legal maxima for the different infringements. Increases applied in previous or subsequent stages may not exceed this maximum amount (Chapter 6). Finally, it is necessary to analyze whether the final calculated amount meets the requirements of effectiveness, deterrence, and proportionality. The fine may be adjusted accordingly (Chapter 7), without exceeding the relevant legal maximum.  
Throughout all the aforementioned steps, it must be taken into account that the calculation of a fine is not a mere mathematical exercise. Rather, the circumstances of the specific case are the determining factors that lead to the final amount, which may be, in all cases, any amount up to and including the legal maximum.  
These Guidelines and their methodology will continue to be subject to ongoing review by the EDPB.  

Table of Contents  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
2  
CHAPTER 1 – INTRODUCTION  
5  
1.1. Legal Framework  
5  
1.2. Objective  
5  
1.3. Scope  
6  
1.4. Applicability  
7  
CHAPTER 2 – METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATING FINES  
7  
2.1. General Considerations  
7  
2.2. Summary of the Methodology  
7  
2.3. Infringements with Fixed Amounts  
8  
CHAPTER 3 – CONCURRENT INFRINGEMENTS AND APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 83(3) OF THE GDPR  
8  
Diagram  
10  
3.1. A Sanctionable Conduct  
11  
3.1.1. Concurrence of Offenses  
12  
3.1.2. Unity of Action – Article 83(3) GDPR  
14  
3.2. Multiple Sanctionable Conducts  
15  
CHAPTER 4 – STARTING POINT FOR CALCULATION  
16  
4.1. Categorization of Infringements under Article 83(4)-(6) GDPR  
16  
4.2. Severity of the Infringement in Each Specific Case  
16  
4.2.1. Nature, Severity, and Duration of the Infringement  
17  
4.2.2. Intentional or Negligent Nature of the Infringement  
18  
4.2.3. Categories of Affected Personal Data  
19  
4.2.4. Classification of the Severity of the Infringement and Identification of the Appropriate Starting Point  
20  
4.3. Turnover of the Company in Order to Impose Effective, Proportional, and Deterrent Fines  
22  
CHAPTER 5 – AGGRAVATING AND MITIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES  
25  
5.1. Identification of Aggravating and Mitigating Factors  
25  
5.2. Actions Taken by the Controller/Processor to Mitigate the Damage Suffered  
25
5  
Adopted  
by the interested parties  
5.3. Degree of responsibility of the data controller or processor  
26  
5.4. Previous infringements of the data controller or processor  
26  
       5.4.1. Time period  
27  
       5.4.2. Content  
27  
       5.4.3. Other considerations  
27  
5.5. Degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement  
28  
5.6. The manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement  
29  
5.7. Compliance with previously ordered measures regarding the same subject  
29  
5.8. Adherence to approved codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms  
29  
5.9. Other aggravating and mitigating circumstances  
30  
CHAPTER 6 – LEGAL MAXIMUM AND CORPORATE LIABILITY  
33  
6.1. Determination of the legal maximum  
33  
       6.1.1. Static maximum amounts  
33  
       6.1.2. Dynamic maximum amounts  
33  
6.2. Determination of the turnover and corporate liability of the company  
34  
       6.2.1. Determination of the company and corporate liability  
34  
       6.2.2. Determination of turnover  
37  
CHAPTER 7 – EFFECTIVENESS, PROPORTIONALITY, AND DETERRENCE  
38  
7.1. Effectiveness  
38  
7.2. Proportionality  
38  
7.3. Deterrence  
40  
CHAPTER 8 – FLEXIBILITY AND REGULAR EVALUATION  
40  
ANNEX – TABLE TO ILLUSTRATE GUIDELINES 04/2022 ON THE CALCULATION OF FINES UNDER THE GDPR  
42  

6  
Adopted  
The European Data Protection Board  
Having regard to Article 70, paragraph 1, letters k), j), and e), of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter, "GDPR"),  
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and, in particular, its Annex XI and Protocol 37, amended by Decision No. 154/2018 of the EEA Joint Committee, of July 6, 2018.  
Having regard to Articles 12 and 22 of its Rules of Procedure,  
Having regard to the Guidelines of the Article 29 Working Party on the application and imposition of administrative fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, WP253, which were endorsed by the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter, the "EDPB") at its first plenary meeting,  
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES  
CHAPTER 1 — INTRODUCTION  
1.1 — Legal Framework  
1.  
With the General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter, the "GDPR"), which has been applicable since May 25, 2018, the EU has completed a comprehensive reform of data protection legislation in Europe. The protection of natural persons in relation to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right. The Regulation is based on several key components, one of which is the strengthening of the enforcement powers of supervisory authorities. The Regulation imposes a new and substantially higher level of fines and provides for the harmonization of fines among Member States.  
2.  
Data controllers and data processors have greater responsibilities to ensure the effective protection of individuals' personal data. Supervisory authorities have the powers to ensure that the principles of the GDPR, as well as the rights of affected individuals, are respected in accordance with the wording and spirit of the GDPR.  
3.  
Therefore, the EDPB has developed guidelines to provide a clear and transparent basis for the imposition of fines by supervisory authorities. The previously published Guidelines on the application and imposition of administrative fines address the circumstances in which an administrative fine would be an appropriate instrument and interpret the criteria of Article 83 of the GDPR in this regard. These Guidelines address the methodology for calculating administrative fines. The two sets of guidelines are applicable simultaneously and should be considered complementary.  
1.2 — Objective  
4.  
These Guidelines are intended to be used by supervisory authorities to ensure a consistent application  

1 References to "Member States" made throughout this document should be understood as references to "EEA Member States."  
2 Guidelines on the application and imposition of administrative fines for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, WP 253 (hereinafter, "WP 253 Guidelines"). The EDPB approved the WP 253 Guidelines at its first plenary meeting held on May 25, 2018. See Endorsement 1/2018, available online here.
7  
Adopted  
and coherent compliance with the GDPR and express the common interpretation of the EDPB of the provisions of  
Article 83 of the GDPR.  
5.  
The objective of these Guidelines is to create harmonized starting points as common guidance, on the basis of which the calculation of administrative fines in specific cases can be made. However, it is established jurisprudence that such guidance does not need to be so specific as to allow a controller or processor to perform a precise mathematical calculation of the anticipated fine. In these Guidelines, it is emphasized that the final amount of the fine depends on all the circumstances of the case. Therefore, the EDPB provides for the harmonization of the starting points and the methodology used to calculate a fine, rather than harmonizing the outcome.  
6.  
These Guidelines can be considered to follow a step-by-step approach, although the supervisory authorities are not obliged to follow all the steps if they are not applicable in a particular case, nor to provide reasoning regarding aspects of the Guidelines that are not applicable. Although the reasoning must include at least the factors that led to determining the level of severity, the turnover applied, and the aggravating and mitigating factors that were applied.  
7.  
Notwithstanding these Guidelines, the supervisory authorities remain subject to all procedural obligations under national and EU law, including the obligation to justify their decisions and their obligations under the one-stop-shop mechanism. In this regard, although the supervisory authorities are required to sufficiently justify their conclusions in accordance with national and Union law, these guidelines should not be interpreted as requiring the supervisory authority to indicate the exact starting amount or quantify the precise impact of each aggravating or mitigating circumstance. Furthermore, mere reference to these Guidelines cannot replace the reasoning that must be presented in a specific case.  
8.  
The Guidelines will be continuously reviewed as practices develop in the EU and EEA. It should be noted that, with the exception of Denmark and Estonia, supervisory authorities are authorized to impose administrative fines, which are binding if not appealed. Thus, over time, administrative and judicial practice will continue to evolve.  
1.3 — Scope  
9.  
These Guidelines aim to regulate and lay the groundwork for the imposition of fines by supervisory authorities at a general level. The established guidance applies to all types of controllers and processors in accordance with Article 4, paragraphs 7 and 8, of the GDPR, except for natural persons when they do not act as businesses. This does not affect the powers of national authorities to impose fines on natural persons.  
10.  
In accordance with Article 83, paragraph 7, of the GDPR, each Member State may establish rules on whether administrative fines can be imposed on authorities and public bodies established in that Member State, and to what extent. As long as the supervisory authorities have this power based on national legislation, these Guidelines will apply to the calculation of fines to be imposed on authorities and public bodies, with the exception of Chapter 4.3. However, supervisory authorities remain free to apply a methodology similar to that described in this chapter. Furthermore, Chapter 6 does not apply to the calculation of the fine to be imposed on authorities and public bodies, in cases where national legislation provides for different legal maxima and the authority or public body does not.  

3 See, for example, cases C-189/02 P, C-202/02 P, C-205/02 P to C-208/02 P and C-213/02 P, Dansk Rørindustri A/S and others/Commission, paragraph 172, and case T-91/11, InnoLux Corp./Commission, paragraph 88.  
4 See Recital 151 of the GDPR.
8  
Adopted  
act as a company as defined in Chapter 6.2.1.  
11.  
The Guidelines refer to both cross-border and non-cross-border cases.  
12.  
The Guidelines are not exhaustive, nor do they provide explanations regarding the differences between national systems of administrative, civil, or criminal law when imposing administrative sanctions in general.  
1.4 — Applicability  
13.  
In accordance with Article 70, paragraph 1, letter e), of the GDPR, the EDPB is empowered to issue guidelines, recommendations, and best practices in order to promote the consistent application of the GDPR. Article 70, paragraph 1, letter k), of the GDPR specifies that the Committee will ensure the consistent application of the GDPR and, on its own initiative or, where appropriate, at the request of the European Commission, in particular, will develop guidelines for supervisory authorities regarding the implementation of the measures referred to in Article 58 and the imposition of administrative fines under Article 83.  
14.  
In order to achieve a consistent approach to the imposition of administrative fines that adequately reflects all the principles of the GDPR, the EDPB has agreed on a common interpretation of the assessment criteria in Article 83 of the GDPR. Individual supervisory authorities will reflect this common approach, in accordance with the applicable local administrative and judicial laws.  
CHAPTER 2 — METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATING FINES  

2.1. General considerations  
15.  
Despite the obligations of cooperation and consistency, the calculation of the fine amount is at the discretion of the supervisory authority. The GDPR requires that the amount of the fine be effective, proportionate, and dissuasive in each case (Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR). Furthermore, when determining the amount of the fine, supervisory authorities will duly take into account a list of circumstances relating to the characteristics of the infringement (its severity) or the nature of the offender (Article 83, paragraph 2, of the GDPR). Therefore, the quantification of the fine amount is based on a specific assessment carried out in each case, taking into account the parameters included in the GDPR.  
16.  
Regarding conduct that violates data protection rules, the GDPR does not provide for a minimum fine. Rather, the GDPR only provides for maximum amounts in Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR, which groups various types of different conduct. Ultimately, a fine can only be calculated by weighing all the factors expressly identified in Article 83, paragraph 2, letters a) to j), of the GDPR, relevant to the case and any other pertinent elements, even if they are not explicitly listed in those provisions [as required by Article 83, paragraph 2, letter k), of the GDPR to duly take into account any other applicable factor]. Finally, the final amount of the fine resulting from this assessment must be effective, proportionate, and dissuasive in each specific case (Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR). Any imposed fine must sufficiently take into account all these parameters, while not exceeding the legal maximum provided in Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR.  
2.2 — Overview of the methodology  
17.  
Taking these parameters into account, the EDPB has developed the following methodology for calculating administrative fines for violations of the GDPR.  
Step 1 Identification of the processing operations in the case and assessment of the application of the
9  
Adopted  
Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR. (Chapter 3)  
Step 2 Find the starting point for subsequent calculations based on an assessment of (Chapter 4)  
a) the classification in Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR;  
b) the severity of the infringement under Article 83, paragraph 2, letters a), b) and g), of the GDPR;  
c) the company's turnover as a relevant element to consider for imposing an effective, deterrent, and proportionate fine, in accordance with Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR.  
Step 3 Assess the aggravating and mitigating circumstances related to the past or present behavior of the data controller/processor and increase or decrease the fine accordingly. (Chapter 5)  
Step 4 Identification of the relevant legal maxima for the different processing operations. The increases applied in previous or subsequent steps cannot exceed this amount. (Chapter 6)  
Step 5 Analyze whether the final amount of the calculated fine meets the requirements of effectiveness, deterrence, and proportionality, as required by Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR, and increase or decrease the fine accordingly. (Chapter 7)  
2.3 — Infringements with fixed amounts  
18.  
In certain circumstances, the supervisory authority may consider that certain infringements can be sanctioned with a predetermined and fixed fine. The application of a fixed amount to certain types of infringements cannot hinder the application of the GDPR, particularly its Article 83. Furthermore, the application of fixed amounts does not exempt supervisory authorities from complying with cooperation and consistency (Chapter VII of the GDPR).  
19.  
It is at the discretion of the supervisory authority to determine which types of infringements may be sanctioned with a predetermined fixed amount, based on their nature, severity, and duration. The supervisory authority cannot make such a determination if it is prohibited or could conflict with the national legislation of the Member State.  
20.  
Fixed amounts may be established at the discretion of the supervisory authority, taking into account, among other things, the social and economic circumstances of that specific Member State, in relation to the severity of the infringement, as interpreted in Article 83, paragraph 2, letters a), b) and g), of the GDPR. It is recommended that the supervisory authority communicate in advance the amounts and the circumstances of the application.  
CHAPTER 3 — CONCURRENT INFRINGEMENTS AND APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 83,  
PARAGRAPH 3, OF THE GDPR  

21.  
Before being able to calculate a fine based on the methodology of these guidelines, it is important to first consider what conduct (real circumstances related to the behavior) and infringements (abstract legal descriptions of what is sanctionable) the fine is based on. In fact, a particular case could include circumstances that could be considered one and the same sanctionable conduct or separate sanctionable behaviors. Furthermore, it is possible that the same conduct could lead to a series of different infringements where the attribution of one infringement excludes the attribution of another infringement or could be attributed to each of these. In other words, cases of concurrent infringements may arise. Depending on the rules of concurrency, this may lead to different calculations of fines.  
22.  
When examining the analysis of the traditions of Member States regarding concurrency rules, as indicated in the jurisprudence of the CJEU, and taking into account the different scopes and legal consequences, these principles can be roughly grouped into the following three categories:  
-  
Concurrency of offenses (Chapter 3.1.1),  
-  
Unity of action (Chapter 3.1.2),  
-  
Plurality of actions (Chapter 3.2).  
23.  
These different categories of concurrency do not conflict with each other, but have different scopes of application and fit into a coherent global system, which provides a scheme of logical proofs.  
24.  
Therefore, it is important to first establish  
a. whether the circumstances should be considered as one (Chapter 3.1) or multiple sanctionable behaviors (Chapter 3.2),  
b. in the case of one behavior (Chapter 3.1), whether this behavior leads to one or several infringements, and  
c. in the case of a behavior that leads to multiple infringements, whether the attribution of one infringement excludes the attribution of another infringement (Chapter 3.1.1) or if they should be attributed to each other (Chapter 3.1.2).  

5 In particular, see the in-depth analysis of AG Tanchev's opinion in case C-10/18 P, Marine Harvest.  

11  
Adopted  

DIAGRAM  
Separate the fines into one or more decisions for each behavior, subject to individual legal maxima.  
Unity of  
action/unit of  
processing  
The fine is calculated taking into account all applicable infringements, but its legal maximum is limited by the highest one (Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR).  
A fine is imposed for one infringement, without prejudice to the  
legal maximum of that  
infringement.  
The infringements are applicable  
to each other  
(Chapter 3.1.2)  
The infringements mutually exclude  
each other  
(Chapter 3.1.1)  

Results in more than one infringement  
The case consists of  
Separate sanctionable  
behaviors (Chapter 3.2)  
One sanctionable behavior  
(Chapter 3.1)  
Results in one infringement  
Plurality of actions  
No concurrency  
Concurrency of laws  
Only one infringement applies to the  
behavior and the fine is calculated  
based solely on that  
infringement and subject to its  
legal maximum.
12  
Adopted  
3.1 — A sanctionable conduct  
25.  
As a first step, it is essential to determine whether there is a single sanctionable conduct ("idem") or multiple ones to identify the relevant sanctionable behavior that must be fined. Therefore, it is important to understand what circumstances are considered as one and the same conduct, rather than multiple conducts. The relevant sanctionable behavior must be evaluated and identified on a case-by-case basis. For example, in a specific case, "the same processing operations or related processing operations" may constitute one and the same conduct.  
26.  
The term "processing operation" is included in Article 4, paragraph 2, of the GDPR, where "processing" is defined as “any operation or set of operations performed on personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated means or not, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, communication by transmission, dissemination or any other form of making available, alignment, combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.”  
27.  
When evaluating "the same processing operations or related processing operations," it must be taken into account that all legally necessary obligations for the processing operations to be carried out lawfully may be considered by the supervisory authority to assess the infringements, including, for example, transparency obligations (e.g., Article 13 of the GDPR). This is also emphasized by the phrase "for the same processing operations or related processing operations," indicating that the scope of this provision includes any infringement related to the same processing operations or related to them or that may impact them.  
28.  
The term "related" refers to the principle that a unitary conduct may consist of several parts carried out by a unitary will and are contextually (in particular, with respect to identity in terms of data subjects, purpose, and nature) related spatially and temporally so closely that, from an objective point of view, they would be considered as a coherent conduct. A sufficient link should not be easily assumed for the supervisory authority to avoid violating the principles of deterrence and effective compliance with European law. Therefore, these aspects of the relationships for a sufficient link must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.  
Example 1.a — Identical or related processing operations  
A financial institution requests a credit check from a credit reporting agency (CRA). The financial institution receives this information and stores it in its system. Although the collection and storage of credit data by the financial entity are in themselves processing operations, they form a set of processing operations that are carried out by a unitary will and are contextually, spatially, and temporally related in such a way that, from an objective point of view, they would be considered as a coherent conduct. Therefore, the processing operations carried out by the financial entity must be considered "related" and constitute the same conduct.  
Example 1.b — Identical or related processing operations  
A data broker decides to implement a new processing activity as follows: it decides to collect, as a third party, the transaction history of consumers from dozens of retailers without legal basis, to conduct psychometric analyses to predict the future behavior of individuals, including voting political behavior, willingness to quit their job, and more. In the same decision, the
13  
Adopted  
If the data intermediary decides not to include this procedure in the records of processing activities, not to inform the data subjects, and to ignore any access requests from the data subjects regarding the new processing operations, the processing operations involved in this processing activity form a set of processing operations carried out by a unified will and are contextually, spatially, and temporally related. They must be considered as "linked" and forming the same conduct. This also includes the failure to record the processing activity in the records, to inform the data subjects, and to establish procedures to give effect to the right of access concerning the new processing operations. These obligations have been breached in the case of linked processing operations.  
Example 1c — Not the same processing operations or linked processing operations  
(i) A construction authority conducts a background check on a job applicant. The background check also includes political affiliation, union membership, and sexual orientation. (ii) Five days later, the construction authority demands excessive self-disclosure from its vendors (sole operators) regarding their business with other entities, regardless of any relevance to the contract or the compliance obligations of the construction authority. (iii) Another week later, the construction authority suffers a personal data security breach. The construction authority's network is hacked, despite having appropriate technical and organizational measures in place, and the hacker gains access to a system that processes personal data of citizens who had submitted applications to the construction authority. Although the data was adequately encrypted in line with applicable standards, the hacker is able to break through with military-grade decryption technology and sells the data on the dark web. The real estate authority refrains from notifying the supervisory authority, despite its obligation to do so. The affected processing operations in this case, namely, the background check, the demands for self-disclosure from the suppliers, and the failure to notify a personal data security breach, are not contextually related. Therefore, they should not be considered "linked," but rather form different conducts.  
29.  
If it is demonstrated that the circumstances of the matter constitute the same behavior and result in a single infringement, the fine may be calculated based on that infringement and its legal maximum. However, if the circumstances of the matter constitute the same behavior, but this behavior results in not only one but multiple infringements, it must be determined whether the attribution of one infringement excludes the attribution of another infringement (chapter 3.1.1) or whether they can be attributed to each other (chapter 3.1.2). When the circumstances of the case form multiple conducts, they will be considered a plurality of actions and will be treated in accordance with chapter 3.2.  
3.1.1. Concurrent Offenses  
30.  
The principle of concurrency of offenses (also referred to as "apparent concurrency" or "false concurrency") applies whenever the application of one provision prevents or subsumes the applicability of another. In other words, concurrency already occurs at the abstract level of legal provisions. This could be due to the principle of specialty, subsidiarity, or consumption, which is often applied when the provisions protect the same legal interest. In such cases, it would be illegal to sanction the offender twice for the same offense.  
31.  
In such a case of concurrent offenses, the amount of the fine should only be calculated based on the  

6 See, for example, the judgment of the Austrian Administrative Court, Ra 2018/02/0123, paragraph 9.  
7 As evaluated in case C-10/18 P, Marine Harvest/Commission.  
8 See, for example, the judgment of the Austrian Administrative Court, Ra 2018/02/0123, paragraph 7.
14  
Adopted  
selected infringement in accordance with the previous rules (overlap with the infringement)9.  
Principle of Specialty10  
32.  
The principle of specialty (specialia generalibus derogant) is a legal principle that means that a more specific provision (derived from the same legal act or from different legal acts of the same force) replaces a more general provision, even though both pursue the same objective. The more specific infringement is sometimes considered a "qualified type" of the less specific one. The qualified type of infringement could be subject to a higher fine level, a higher legal maximum, or a broader limitation period.  
33.  
However, sometimes through interpretation, specialty can also be applied when, for reasons of nature and systematics, an infringement is considered a restriction of an apparently more specific one, even though its wording alone does not explicitly mention an additional element.  
34.  
When, on the other hand, two provisions pursue autonomous objectives, it constitutes a differentiating factor that justifies the imposition of separate fines. For example, if an infringement of one provision automatically results in an infringement of the other, but the reverse is not true, these infringements pursue autonomous objectives.  
35.  
These principles of specialty can only be applied to the extent that the objectives pursued by the infringements in question are truly congruent in the specific case. Since the data protection principles of Article 5 of the GDPR are established as general concepts, there may be situations where other provisions are a specification of that principle, but without circumscribing the principle in its entirety. In other words, a provision does not always define the full scope of the principle11. Therefore, depending on the circumstances12, in some cases they overlap congruently and one infringement may replace the other, while in other cases, the overlap is only partial and, therefore, not fully congruent. To the extent that they are not congruent, there is no concurrence of offenses. Instead, they may be applied side by side when calculating the fine.  
Principle of Subsidiarity  
36.  
Another form of concurrence of offenses is often referred to as the principle of subsidiarity. It applies when an infringement is considered subsidiary to another infringement. This could be due to the law formally declaring subsidiarity or because subsidiarity arises for material reasons13. The latter may be the case  

9 As evaluated in case C-10/18 P, Marine Harvest/Commission.  
10 As evaluated in case C-10/18 P, Marine Harvest/Commission.  
11 Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB on the dispute arising from the draft decision of the Irish supervisory authority regarding WhatsApp Ireland under Article 65(1)(a) of the GDPR (hereinafter, "Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB"), paragraph 192.  
12 Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB, paragraph 193.  
13 The idea of formal subsidiarity is also indirectly included in Article 35(2) of Directive (EU) 2022/2555 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of December 14, 2022, on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity across the Union, amending Regulation (EU) No. 910/2014 and Directive (EU) 2018/1972 and repealing Directive (EU) 2016/1148 ("NIS 2 Directive"), although the conflict is resolved at the procedural and not material level. The provision regulates that "when the supervisory authorities referred to in Articles 55 or 56 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 impose an administrative fine under Article 58(2)(i) of the GDPR, the competent authorities shall not impose an administrative fine under Article 34 of the NIS 2 Directive for an infringement referred to in Article 35(1) of the NIS 2 Directive arising from the same conduct as that which was subject to the administrative fine under Article 58(2)(i) of the GDPR." To the extent that the infringement referred to in Article 35(1) of the NIS 2 Directive is considered indirectly subsidiary to a fine based on the GDPR when it concerns the same conduct.
15  
Adopted  
when the violations have the same objective, but one of them contains a lesser accusation of immorality or misconduct (for example, an administrative violation may be subsidiary to a criminal violation, etc.).  
Principle of consumption  
37.  
The principle of consumption applies in cases where the violation of one provision regularly leads to the violation of another, often because one violation is a prerequisite for the other.  
3.1.2 — Unity of action — Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR  
38.  
Similar to the situation of concurrent offenses, the principle of unity of action (also referred to as "ideal concurrency") applies in cases where a conduct is covered by several legal provisions, with the difference that one provision is neither excluded nor subsumed by the applicability of the other, because they do not fall within the scope of the principles of specialty, subsidiarity, or consumption and primarily pursue different objectives.  
39.  
The principle of unity of action was specified in the context of derived law in Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR in the form of "unit of processing." It is important to understand that Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR is limited in its application and will not apply to all cases where multiple violations have been found, but only to those cases where multiple violations of "the same processing operations or linked operations" have occurred, as explained above. In these cases, the total amount of the administrative fine shall not exceed the amount specified for the most serious violation.  
40.  
In some special cases, a unity of action may also be assumed when a single action violates the same legal provision multiple times. This could be the case, in particular, when the circumstances constitute an iterative and congeneric infringement of the same legal provision in a close spatial and temporal succession.  
Example 2 — Unity of action  
A controller sends batches of marketing emails to groups of stakeholders in different waves over the course of a day without having a legal basis and, therefore, violates Article 6, paragraph 1, of the GDPR with a unity of action several times.  
41.  
The wording of Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR does not seem to directly cover this latter case of unity of action, as "multiple provisions" are not violated. However, it would constitute unequal and unfair treatment if an offender who violated different provisions pursuing different objectives through one action were favored over an offender who violated the same provision pursuing the same objective multiple times with the same action. To avoid inconsistency in the legal principle and to respect the fundamental right to equal treatment in the Charter, in such cases, Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR will apply mutatis mutandis.  
42.  
In the case of unity of action, the total amount of the administrative fine shall not exceed the amount specified for the most serious violation. "As for the interpretation of Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR,  

14 Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB, paragraph 320.  
15 Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR states in its entirety: “If a controller or processor intentionally or negligently infringes, for the same processing operations or linked operations, various provisions of this Regulation, the total amount of the administrative fine shall not be greater than the amount provided for the most serious infringements.”
16  
Adopted  
the EDPB states that the principle of "effet utile" requires all institutions to give full force and effect to EU law.16 In this regard, Article 83(3) of the GDPR should not be interpreted in a way that "it would not matter whether an offender committed one or multiple infringements of the GDPR when assessing the fine."17  
43.  
The term "total amount" implies that all infringements committed must be taken into account when assessing the amount of the fine18, and the expression "specified amount for the most serious infringement" refers to the legal maximums of fines (for example, Articles 83(4) to (6) of the GDPR). Therefore, "although the fine itself cannot exceed the legal maximum of the highest level of fines, the offender will still be explicitly declared guilty of having infringed multiple provisions, and these infringements must be taken into account when assessing the final amount of the fine to be imposed."19 While this is understood without prejudice to the obligation of the supervisory authority imposing the fine to consider the need for the fine to be proportionate, the other infringements committed cannot be disregarded and, instead, must be taken into account when calculating the fine.  
3.2 — Multiple Sanctionable Behaviors  
44.  
The principle of plurality of actions (also referred to as "Realkonkurrenz," "factual concurrence," or "coincidental concurrence") describes all cases not covered by the principles of concurrence of offenses (Chapter 3.1.1) or Article 83(3) of the GDPR (Chapter 3.1.2).  
45.  
The only reason these infringements are addressed in a decision is that they have drawn the attention of the supervisory authority simultaneously without being the same or linked processing operations in the sense of Article 83(3) of the GDPR. Therefore, it is considered that the offender has infringed several legal provisions, and separate fines are imposed according to national procedure, either in the same fine decision or in separate fine decisions. Furthermore, since Article 83(3) of the GDPR does not apply, the total amount of the administrative fine may exceed the specified amount for the most serious infringement (argumentum e contrario). Cases of plurality of actions do not present any reason to favor the offender regarding the calculation of fines. However, this is understood without prejudice to the obligation to continue respecting the general principle of proportionality.  
Example 3 — Plurality of Actions  
After conducting a data protection inspection at the premises of a data controller, the supervisory authority considers that the data controller has not established a procedure for the continuous review and improvement of the security of its website, has not provided employees with the Article 13 information regarding HR data processing, nor has it informed the supervisory authority of a recent data security breach involving its suppliers. None of the infringements are excluded or subsumed by specialty, subsidiarity, or consumption. Furthermore, they are not considered the same processing operation or linked processing operations: they do not form a unit of action but rather a plurality of actions. Therefore, the supervisory authority will consider that the data controller has infringed different provisions of Articles 13, 32, and 33 of the GDPR through various behaviors. It will impose individual fines for each in its decision, without a single applicable legal maximum for their sum.  

16 Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB, paragraph 322.  
17 Ibid., paragraph 323.  
18 Ibid., paragraph 325.  
19 Ibid., paragraph 326.
17  
Adopted  
CHAPTER 4 — STARTING POINT FOR THE CALCULATION  
46.  
The EDPB considers that the calculation of administrative fines should begin from a harmonized starting point. This starting point constitutes the beginning of the subsequent calculation, in which all the circumstances of the case are taken into account and weighed, resulting in the final amount of the fine that must be imposed on the controller or the processor.  
47.  
The identification of harmonized starting points in these Guidelines does not prevent and should not prevent supervisory authorities from assessing each case based on its merits. The fine imposed on a controller/processor may vary from any amount up to the legal maximum of the fine, provided that such fine is effective, dissuasive, and proportionate. The existence of a starting point does not prevent the supervisory authority from reducing or increasing the fine (up to its maximum) if the circumstances of the case so require.  
48.  
The EDPB considers that three elements constitute the starting point for the subsequent calculation: the categorization of infringements according to their nature under Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR, the severity of the infringement (as explained in section 4.2), and the annual turnover of the company as a relevant factor to consider in order to impose an effective, dissuasive, and proportionate fine, in accordance with Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR. These are described in chapters 4.1, 4.2, and 4.3.  
4.1. Categorization of infringements under Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR  
49.  
Almost all obligations of controllers and processors under the Regulation are classified according to their nature in the provisions of Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR. The GDPR establishes two categories of infringements: infringements punishable under Article 83, paragraph 4, of the GDPR, on one hand, and infringements punishable under Article 83, paragraphs 5 and 6, of the GDPR, on the other. The first category of infringements is punishable by a maximum fine of 10 million euros or 2% of the annual turnover of the company, whichever is higher, while the second is punishable by a maximum fine of 20 million euros or 4% of the annual turnover of the company, whichever is higher.  
50.  
With this distinction, the legislator provided a first indication of the severity of the infringement in an abstract sense. The more severe the infringement, the more likely it is that the fine will be higher.  
4.2 — Severity of the infringement in each specific case  
51.  
The GDPR requires the supervisory authority to duly take into account the nature, severity, and duration of the infringement, considering the nature, scope, or purpose of the processing in question, as well as the number of affected data subjects and the level of harm suffered by them (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter a), of the GDPR); the intentional or negligent character of the infringement [Article 83, paragraph 2, letter b), of the GDPR]; and the categories of personal data affected by the infringement [Article 83, paragraph 2, letter g), of the GDPR]. For the purposes of these Guidelines, the EDPB refers to these factors as the severity of the infringement.  

20 As long as the Guidelines leave sufficient room to adapt an administrative fine to the circumstances of the case, the Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter, "CJEU") generally accepts that calculations begin from an abstract starting point. In particular, in the joined cases C-189/02 P, C-202/02 P, C-205/02 P to C-208/02 P and C-213/02 P, Dansk Rørindustri, but also more recently in case T-15/02, BASF AG/Commission, paragraphs 120-121; 134, case C-227/14 P, LG Display Co. Ltd/Commission, paragraph 53, and case T-26/02, Daiichi Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd/Commission, paragraph 50.  
21 See also in this regard Guidelines WP 253, p. 9.
18  
Adopted  
52.  
The supervisory authority must review these factors in light of the specific circumstances of the case and must conclude, based on this analysis, the degree of severity indicated in paragraph 60. In this regard, the supervisory authority may also consider whether the data in question was directly identifiable. Although these factors are discussed individually in these Guidelines, in reality, they are often intertwined and should be considered in relation to the facts of the case as a whole.  
4.2.1 — Nature, severity, and duration of the infringement  
53.  
Article 83, paragraph 2, letter a), of the GDPR has a broad scope and requires the supervisory authority to conduct a thorough examination of all elements constituting the infringement and that are suitable for differentiating it from other infringements of the same nature. Therefore, this assessment must take into account the following specific factors:  
a) The nature of the infringement, evaluated by the specific circumstances of the matter. In this sense, this analysis is more specific than the abstract classification in Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR. The supervisory authority may review the interest that the infringed provision aims to protect and the place of this provision within the framework of data protection. Furthermore, the supervisory authority may consider to what extent the infringement hindered the effective application of the provision and the achievement of the objective it aimed to protect.  
b) The severity of the infringement, evaluated based on specific circumstances. As indicated in Article 83, paragraph 2, letter a), of the GDPR, this refers to the nature of the processing, but also to the "scope or purpose of the processing in question, as well as the number of affected data subjects and the level of harm suffered by them," which will be indicative of the severity of the infringement.  
i. The nature of the processing, including the context in which the processing is functionally based (for example, business activity, non-profit, political party, etc.) and all characteristics of the processing. When the nature of the processing involves greater risks, for example, when the objective is to monitor, evaluate personal aspects, or make decisions or take measures with negative effects for the data subjects, depending on the context of the processing and the role of the controller or processor, the supervisory authority may consider attributing more weight to this factor. Additionally, a supervisory authority may attribute more weight to this factor when there is a clear imbalance between the data subjects and the controller (for example, when the data subjects are employees, students, or patients) or when the processing involves vulnerable data subjects, particularly children.  
ii. The scope of the processing, with reference to the local, national, or cross-border extent of the processing carried out and the relationship between this information and the actual scope of the processing in terms of resource allocation by the controller. This element highlights a real risk factor, linked to the greater difficulty for the data subject and the supervisory authority to curb unlawful conduct as the scope of the processing increases. The larger the scope of the processing, the greater the risk.  
22 For example, when analyzing the element related to the "nature of the infringement," the EDPB, in its Decision 01/2020 regarding the litigation that arose in relation to the draft Decision of the Irish supervisory authority concerning Twitter International Company under Article 65, paragraph 1, letter a), of the GDPR (hereinafter, "Binding Decision EDPB 01/2020") noted that the "affected processing" involved communications from data subjects who deliberately chose to restrict the audience of such communications, and recommended that this aspect be taken into account when assessing the nature of the processing. In this context, see also the Binding Decision of the EDPB 01/2020, paragraph 186.
19  
Adopted  
treatment, the more weight the supervisory authority may attribute to this factor.  
iii. The purpose of the treatment will lead the supervisory authority to attribute more weight to this factor. The supervisory authority may also consider whether the processing of personal data falls within the so-called core activities of the data controller. The more central the processing is to the main activities of the controller or the processor, the more serious the irregularities in this processing will be. The supervisory authority may attribute more weight to this factor under these circumstances. However, there may be circumstances in which the processing of personal data is even further removed from the core activities of the controller or the processor, but has a significant impact on the assessment (this is the case, for example, of the processing of personal data of workers when the infringement significantly affects the dignity of those workers).  
iv. The number of specific data subjects, but also potentially affected individuals. The greater the number of data subjects involved, the more weight the supervisory authority may attribute to this factor. In many cases, it may also be considered that the infringement acquires "systemic" connotations and, therefore, may affect, even at different times, additional data subjects who have not filed complaints or reports with the supervisory authority. The supervisory authority may, depending on the circumstances of the case, consider the relationship between the number of affected data subjects and the total number of data subjects in that context (for example, the number of citizens, customers, or employees) in order to assess whether the infringement is systemic in nature.  
v. The level of damage suffered and the extent to which the conduct may affect individual rights and freedoms. The reference to the "level" of damages suffered, therefore, aims to draw the attention of the supervisory authorities to the damages suffered, or that are likely to have been suffered as an additional parameter, separate from the number of data subjects involved (for example, in cases where the number of individuals affected by the unlawful processing is high, but the damage suffered by them is marginal). In accordance with Recital 75 of the GDPR, the level of damage suffered refers to physical, material, or non-material damages. The assessment of damage, in any case, is limited to what is functionally necessary to achieve an accurate assessment of the severity of the infringement, as indicated in paragraph 60, without overlapping with the activities of judicial authorities responsible for determining the different forms of individual damage.  
c) The duration of the infringement, meaning that a supervisory authority may, in general, attribute more weight to a longer infringement. The longer the duration of the infringement, the more weight the supervisory authority may attribute to this factor. Without prejudice to national legislation, if a certain conduct were also unlawful within the framework of the previous regulation, both the period after the entry into force of the GDPR and the period prior may be taken into account when quantifying the fine, considering the conditions of that framework.  
54.  
The supervisory authority may weigh the aforementioned factors based on the circumstances of the case. If they are not of particular relevance, they may also be considered neutral.  
4.2.2 — Intentional or negligent nature of the infringement  
55.  
In its previous guidelines, the EDPB stated that "in general, intent includes both knowledge and will regarding the characteristics of an offense, while 'unintentional' means that
20  
Adopted  
there was no intention to cause the infringement, although the responsible party/data controller failed to comply with the duty of care required by law. Non-intentional in this sense does not equate to involuntary.  
Example 4 — Illustrations of intention and negligence (from WP 253)  
“Circumstances indicative of intentional infringements may include illicit processing explicitly authorized by the high hierarchy of the management of the data controller, or despite the advice of the data protection officer or in violation of existing policies, for example, the obtaining and processing of data about employees of a competitor with the intention of discrediting that competitor in the market. Other examples here may include:  
-  
the modification of personal data to give a misleading (positive) impression of whether objectives have been met; we have seen this in the context of targets for hospital waiting times  
-  
the trading of personal data for commercial purposes, that is, the sale of data as “opted-in” without checking or ignoring the opinions of the data subjects on how their data should be used  
Other circumstances, such as the failure to read and comply with existing policies, human error, the lack of verification of personal data in published information, the failure to apply technical updates in a timely manner, and the failure to adopt policies (as opposed to simply their lack of enforcement) may be indicative of negligence”;  
56.  
The intentional or negligent nature of the infringement [Article 83, paragraph 2, letter b), of the GDPR] must be assessed taking into account the objective elements of conduct obtained from the facts of the case. The EDPB emphasized that it is generally accepted that intentional infringements, “demonstrating contempt for the provisions of the law, are more serious than unintentional ones.” In the case of intentional infringement, it is likely that the supervisory authority will attribute more weight to this factor. Depending on the circumstances of the case, the supervisory authority may also attribute weight to the degree of negligence. In the best-case scenario, negligence could be considered neutral.  
4.2.3 — Categories of affected personal data  
57.  
Regarding the requirement to take into account the categories of affected personal data (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter g) of the GDPR), the GDPR clearly highlights the types of data that deserve special protection and, therefore, a stricter response in terms of fines. This refers, at a minimum, to the types of data covered by Articles 9 and 10 of the GDPR, and to data outside the scope of these articles whose dissemination causes immediate harm or difficulties to the data subject (for example, location data, data on private communication, national identification numbers, or financial data, such as transaction summaries or credit card numbers). In general, the more such categories of data are involved or the more sensitive the data, the more weight the supervisory authority may attribute to this factor.  
58.  
Furthermore, the amount of data relating to each data subject is relevant, considering that the violation of the right to privacy and the protection of personal data increases with the amount of data.  

23 WP 253 Guidelines, p. 11.  
24 Examples directly cited from WP 253 Guidelines, p. 12.  
25 WP 253 Guidelines, p. 12.  
26 Ibid., p. 14.  
27 The dissemination of private communications and location data can cause immediate harm or distress to the data subject, which has been highlighted by the special protection granted by the EU legislator to private communications in Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Directive 2002/58/EC and by the CJEU for location data in certain cases, see the joined cases C-511/18, C-512/18, and C-520/18, La Quadrature du Net et al, paragraph 117 and the case law cited therein.
21  
Adopted  
relating to each interested party.  
4.2.4 — Classification of the severity of the infringement and identification of the appropriate starting amount  
59.  
The assessment of the previous factors (chapters 4.2.1–4.2.3) determines the overall severity of the infringement. This assessment is not a mathematical calculation in which the aforementioned factors are considered individually, but rather a comprehensive evaluation of the specific circumstances of the case, in which all the mentioned factors are interrelated. Therefore, when examining the severity of the infringement, the infringement must be considered as a whole.  
60.  
Based on the evaluation of the factors described above, the infringement is considered to be of (i) low, (ii) medium, or (iii) high level of severity. These categories are understood without prejudice to the question of whether or not a fine can be imposed.  
-  
When calculating the administrative fine for low-level severity infringements, the supervisory authority will determine the starting amount for subsequent calculation at a point between 0 and 10% of the applicable legal maximum.  
-  
When calculating the administrative fine for medium-level severity infringements, the supervisory authority will determine the starting amount for subsequent calculation at a point between 10 and 20% of the applicable legal maximum.  
-  
When calculating the administrative fines for high-level severity infringements, the supervisory authority will determine the starting amount for subsequent calculation at a point between 20 and 100% of the applicable legal maximum.  
61.  
As a general rule, the more severe the infringement within its own category, the higher the initial amount will be.  
62.  
The intervals within which the starting amount is determined remain subject to review by the EDPB and its members and may be adjusted as necessary.  
Example 5.a — Assessment of the severity of an infringement (high level of severity)  
After investigating numerous complaints about unsolicited calls from customers of a telecommunications company, the competent supervisory authority found that the telecommunications company was using its customers' contact data for telemarketing purposes without a valid legal basis (infringement of Article 6 of the GDPR). In particular, the telecommunications company had offered the registered names and phone numbers of its customers to third parties for marketing purposes. The telecommunications company did this despite advice against it from the data protection officer, without making any effort to curb the practice or provide customers with a way to object. In fact, the practice had been occurring since May 2018 and was still ongoing at the time of the investigation. The telecommunications company in question operated nationally and the practice affected all of its 4 million customers. The supervisory authority found that all these customers had been regularly subjected to unsolicited calls from third parties, without any effective means to stop them.  
The supervisory authority was tasked with assessing the severity of this case. As a starting point, the supervisory authority noted that an infringement of Article 6 of the GDPR falls within the infringements of Article 83, paragraph 5, of the GDPR and, therefore, is included in the upper level of Article 83 of the GDPR. Secondly, the supervisory authority evaluated the circumstances of the case. In this regard, the supervisory authority attributed significant weight to the nature of the infringement, as the provision infringed (Article 6 of the GDPR) underpins the legality of data processing as a whole. The
22  
Adopted  
non-compliance with this provision eliminates the lawfulness of the processing as a whole. Furthermore, the supervisory authority attributed significant weight to the duration of the infringement, which began on the date of entry into force of the GDPR and had not ceased at the time of the investigation. The fact that the telecommunications company operated at a national level increased the weight of the scope of the processing. The number of data subjects involved was considered very high (4 million, compared to a total population of 14 million people), while the level of harm suffered by them was considered moderate (non-material harm, in the form of inconvenience). This last assessment was made taking into account the categories of affected data (name and phone number). However, the severity of the infringement was increased by the fact that the infringement was committed against the opinion of the data protection officer and was therefore considered intentional.  
Taking all of the above into account (serious nature, long duration, high number of data subjects, national scope, intentional nature, against moderate harm), the supervisor concludes that the infringement is considered to be of a high level of severity. The supervisory authority will determine the starting amount for its subsequent calculation at a point between 20% and 100% of the maximum legal amount included in Article 83, paragraph 5, of the GDPR.  
Example 5b — Assessment of the severity of an infringement (medium level of severity)  
A supervisory authority received a notification of a security breach of personal data from a hospital. From this notification, it appeared that several staff members had been able to view parts of patients' health records that, based on their department, should not have been accessible to them. The hospital had been working on procedures to regulate access to patient records and had implemented strict measures for restricted access. This implies that staff from one department can only access the relevant medical information for that specific department. Additionally, the hospital had invested in privacy awareness among its staff members. However, it turned out that there were issues related to the control of authorizations. Officials transferred between departments were still able to access the patient records from their "old" departments, and the hospital did not have procedures to match the current position of the official with their authorization. The hospital's internal investigation showed that at least 150 staff members (out of 3,500) had inaccurate authorizations, affecting at least 20,000 of the 95,000 patient records. The hospital could demonstrate that in at least 16 cases, staff members had used their authorizations to view patient files. The supervisory authority considers that Article 32 of the GDPR has been infringed.  
In assessing the severity of the case, the supervisory authority first noted that an infringement of Article 32 of the GDPR falls among the infringements of Article 83, paragraph 4, of the GDPR and is therefore included in the lower level of Article 83 of the GDPR. Secondly, the supervisory authority evaluated the circumstances of the case. In this regard, the supervisory authority considered that, although the number of data subjects affected by the breach was only 16, it could have been 20,000 under the circumstances of the case and even 95,000, given the systemic nature of the issue. Furthermore, the supervisory authority classified the infringement as negligent, but to a low degree, which was considered a neutral factor in the circumstances of this particular case because the hospital did not adopt authorization policies when it surely should have, but otherwise had taken measures to implement strict measures to restrict access. This assessment was not affected by the fact that other data protection and security policies were successfully implemented, as required by the GDPR. Finally, the supervisory authority attributed significant weight to the fact that patient records include health data, which are special categories of data in accordance with Article 9 of the GDPR.  
Taking all of the above into account (nature of the processing and special categories of data with respect
23  
Adopted  
to the number of real and potentially affected parties), the supervisory authority concludes that the infringement is considered to be of medium severity. The supervisory authority will determine the starting amount for its subsequent calculation at a point between 10% and 20% of the legal maximum included in Article 83, paragraph 4, of the GDPR.  
Example 5c — Assessment of the severity of an infringement (low severity level)  
A supervisory authority has received numerous complaints regarding how an online store handles the access rights of its data subjects. According to the complainants, the processing of their access requests has taken between 4 and 6 months, which exceeds the time allowed by the GDPR. The supervisory authority investigates the complaints and finds that the online store responds to access requests a maximum of three months too late in 5% of the cases. In total, the store received around 1,000 access requests annually and confirmed that 950 of them were processed on time. Furthermore, the online store had policies in place to ensure that all access requests were processed correctly and completely. However, the supervisory authority concluded that the online store was in violation of Article 12, paragraph 3, of the GDPR and decided to impose a fine.  
During the calculation of the fine to be imposed, the supervisory authority was tasked with assessing the severity of the matter at hand. As a starting point, the supervisory authority noted that a violation of Article 12 of the GDPR falls among the infringements listed in Article 83, paragraph 5, of the GDPR and, therefore, is included in the upper level of Article 83 of the GDPR. Secondly, the supervisory authority evaluated the circumstances of the case. In this regard, the supervisory authority carefully analyzed the nature of the infringement. Although the timely right of access to personal data is one of the cornerstones of the rights of data subjects, the supervisory authority considered that the infringement was of limited severity in this respect, given that all requests were ultimately processed, albeit with a limited delay. Taking into account the purpose of the processing, the supervisory authority concluded that the processing of personal data was not the main activity of the online store, but it remained an important auxiliary element to fulfill its objective of selling goods online. The supervisory authority considered that this increased the severity of the infringement. On the other hand, the level of harm suffered by the data subjects was deemed minimal, as all access requests were processed within a six-month period.  
Considering all of the above (nature of the infringement, purpose of the processing, and level of harm), the supervisory authority concludes that the infringement is considered to be of low severity. The supervisory authority will determine the starting amount for its subsequent calculation at a point between 0% and 10% of the legal maximum included in Article 83, paragraph 5, of the GDPR.  
4.3 — Turnover of the company in order to impose an effective, deterrent, and proportionate fine  
63.  
The GDPR requires that each supervisory authority ensure that the imposition of administrative fines is effective, proportionate, and deterrent in each specific case (Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR). The application of these principles of European Union law can have far-reaching consequences in individual cases, as the starting points provided by the GDPR for calculating administrative fines apply to both microenterprises and multinational companies. In order to impose an effective, proportionate, and deterrent fine in all cases, it is expected that supervisory authorities will adjust administrative fines within the entire available range up to the legal maximum. This may result in significant increases or decreases in the amount of the fine, depending on the circumstances of the case.  
64.  
The EDPB considers it fair to reflect a distinction in the size of the company in the starting points that
24  
Adopted  
are indicated below and, therefore, takes into account their turnover28. The EDPB follows the requirements of Article 83 of the GDPR, the GDPR as a whole, and the established case law of the CJEU which states that the turnover of a company may constitute an indication of the size and economic power of a company29. However, this does not exempt a supervisory authority from the responsibility of conducting a review of the effectiveness, deterrence, and proportionality at the end of the calculation (see Chapter 7). The latter covers all circumstances of the case, including, for example, the accumulation of multiple violations, increases and decreases for aggravating and mitigating circumstances, as well as financial/socioeconomic circumstances. However, it is the responsibility of the supervisory authority to ensure that the same circumstances are not counted twice. In particular, under Chapter 7, supervisory authorities should not repeat increases or decreases in relation to the turnover of the company, but rather review their assessment of the appropriate starting amount.  
65.  
For the reasons stated above, the supervisory authority may consider the possibility of adjusting the starting amount corresponding to the severity of the violation in cases where such violation is committed by a company with an annual turnover not exceeding 2 million euros, an annual turnover not exceeding 10 million euros, or an annual turnover not exceeding 50 million euros30.  
-  
In the case of companies with an annual turnover ≤ 2 million EUR, supervisory authorities may consider calculating based on a sum between 0.2% and 0.4% of the identified starting amount.  
-  
In the case of companies with an annual turnover of 2 million euros up to 10 million EUR, supervisory authorities may consider calculating based on a sum between 0.3% and 2% of the identified starting amount.  
-  
In the case of companies with an annual turnover of 10 million EUR up to 50 million EUR, supervisory authorities may consider calculating based on a sum between 1.5% and 10% of the identified starting amount.  
66.  
For the same reasons, the supervisory authority may consider the possibility of adjusting the starting amount corresponding to the severity of the violation in cases where such violation is committed by a company with an annual turnover not exceeding 100 million euros, an annual turnover not exceeding 250 million euros, and an annual turnover not exceeding 500 million euros31.  
-  
In the case of companies with an annual turnover of 50 million EUR up to 100 million EUR, supervisory authorities may consider making calculations based on a sum  

28 See also the Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB, paragraphs 411 and 412: “[So far] the turnover of a company is not exclusively relevant for determining the maximum amount of the fine in accordance with Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR, but may also be considered [as a relevant element among others] for calculating the fine itself, where appropriate, to ensure that the fine is effective, proportionate, and dissuasive in accordance with Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR. The turnover of the company in question is detailed in Chapter 6.2 of these Guidelines.  
29 This has been affirmed by the General Court in case T-25/06, Alliance One International, Inc./European Commission, paragraph 211, referencing other case law, for example, in case T-9/99, HFB and others/Commission, paragraphs 528 and 529, and in case T-175/05, Akzo Nobel and others/Commission, paragraph 114.  
30 These turnover figures are inspired by the Commission Recommendation of May 6, 2003, regarding the definition of micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises. To determine the starting points, the EDPB relies solely on the annual turnover of the company (see Chapter 6 below).  
31 These figures are added to bridge the gap between the highest threshold of the previous section and the turnover threshold established in Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR.
25  
Adopted  
ranging from 8% to 20% of the identified starting amount.  
-  
In the case of companies with an annual turnover of 100 million euros up to 250 million euros, the supervisory authorities may consider making calculations based on an amount ranging from 15% to 50% of the identified starting amount.  
-  
In the case of companies with an annual turnover of 250 million euros up to 500 million euros, the supervisory authorities may consider making calculations based on an amount ranging from 40% to 100% of the identified starting amount.  
-  
In the case of companies with an annual turnover exceeding 500 million euros, the supervisory authorities may consider proceeding without an adjustment of the identified starting amount. In fact, such companies will exceed the static legal maximum, and therefore, the size of the company is already reflected in the dynamic legal maximum used to determine the starting amount for a subsequent calculation based on the assessment of the severity of the infringement.  
67.  
As a general rule, the higher the turnover of the company within its applicable level, the higher the starting amount will be. This particularly applies to the largest companies, for which the category of starting amounts is the broadest.  
68.  
Furthermore, the supervisory authority is not obliged to apply this adjustment if it is not necessary from the perspective of effectiveness, deterrence, and proportionality to adjust the starting amount of the fine.  
69.  
It should be reiterated that these figures are the starting points for subsequent calculation, and not fixed amounts (price tags) for infringements of the provisions of the GDPR. The supervisory authority has the discretionary power to use the full range of fines from any amount up to the legal maximum, ensuring that the fine is tailored to the circumstances of the case, as required by the Court of Justice in the event that an abstract starting point is used.  
Example 6.a — Identification of starting points for subsequent calculation  
A supermarket chain with a turnover of 450 million euros has infringed Article 12 of the GDPR. The supervisory authority, based on a thorough analysis of the circumstances of the case, determined that the infringement was of a low level of severity. To determine the starting point for the subsequent calculation, the supervisory authority first identifies that Article 12 of the GDPR is listed in Article 83, paragraph 5, letter b), of the GDPR and that, based on the company's turnover (450 million euros), a legal maximum of 20 million euros applies.  
Based on the level of severity determined by the supervisory authority (low), a starting amount ranging from 0 to 2 million euros (between 0 and 10% of the applicable legal maximum, see paragraph 60 above) should be considered.  
The supervisory authority considers that an adjustment up to 90% of the starting amount is justified based on the size of the company, which has a turnover of 450 million euros. This amount constitutes the basis for the subsequent calculation, which should result in a final amount not exceeding the applicable legal maximum of 20 million euros.  
Example 6.b — Identification of starting points for subsequent calculation  
It is discovered that a startup dating app with a turnover of 500,000 euros has sold confidential personal data of its clients to various data brokers for analytical purposes and, therefore, infringed Article 9 and Article 5, paragraph 1, letter a), of the GDPR. The supervisory authority,
26  
Adopted  
based on a thorough analysis of the circumstances of the case, it was decided that the infringement is of a high level of severity. To determine the starting point for the subsequent calculation, the supervisory authority first identifies that Articles 9 and 5 of the GDPR are listed in Article 83, paragraph 5, letter a), of the GDPR and that, based on the company's turnover (500,000 EUR), a legal maximum of 20,000,000 EUR applies.  
Based on the level of severity determined by the supervisory authority (high), a starting amount between 4,000,000 EUR and 20,000,000 EUR must be considered (between 20% and 100% of the applicable legal maximum, see paragraph 60 above).  
The supervisory authority considers that an adjustment up to 0.25% of the starting amount is justified based on the size of the company, which has a turnover of 500,000 EUR. This amount constitutes the basis for the subsequent calculation, which should result in a final amount not exceeding the applicable maximum of 20 million EUR.  
CHAPTER 5 — AGGRAVATING AND MITIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES  
5.1 — Identification of aggravating and mitigating factors  
70.  
Following the structure of the GDPR, after evaluating the nature, severity, and duration of the infringement, as well as its intentional or negligent character and the categories of personal data affected, the supervisory authority must take into account the remaining aggravating and mitigating factors listed in Article 83, paragraph 2, of the GDPR.  
71.  
Regarding the assessment of these elements, increases or decreases in a fine cannot be predetermined through tables or percentages. It is reiterated that the actual quantification of the fine will depend on all the elements gathered during the investigation and other considerations related also to previous experiences of fines by the supervisory authority.  
72.  
For the sake of clarity, it should be noted that each criterion of Article 83, paragraph 2, of the GDPR, whether evaluated under Chapter 4 or this chapter, should only be taken into account once as part of the overall assessment of Article 83, paragraph 2, of the GDPR.  
5.2 — Measures taken by the controller or processor to mitigate the harm suffered by the data subjects  
73.  
A first step in determining whether aggravating or mitigating circumstances have occurred is to review Article 83, paragraph 2, letter c), which refers to "any action taken by the controller or processor to mitigate the harm suffered by the data subjects."  
74.  
As recalled in Guidelines WP253, controllers and processors are already required to "implement technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk, carry out data protection impact assessments, and mitigate the risks arising from the processing of personal data for the rights and freedoms of individuals." However, in the event of an infringement, the controller or processor must "do everything they can to reduce the consequences of the infringement for the affected individual or individuals."32  
75.  
The adoption of appropriate measures to mitigate the harm suffered by the data subjects can be considered a  

32 Guidelines WP253, p. 12.
27  
Adopted  
mitigating factor, which reduces the amount of the fine.  
76.  
The measures adopted must be evaluated, in particular, in relation to the element of timeliness, that is, the moment they are applied by the controller or the processor, and their effectiveness. In this sense, it is more likely that the measures applied spontaneously before the initiation of the investigation by the supervisory authority will be recognized by the controller or processor as a mitigating factor than those measures that were applied after that moment.  
5.3 — Degree of responsibility of the controller or processor  
77.  
In accordance with Article 83, paragraph 2, letter d), the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor must be assessed, taking into account the measures applied by them in accordance with Articles 25 and 32 of the GDPR. According to Guidelines WP253, "the question that the supervisory authority must answer is to what extent the controller 'did what could be expected of them' given the nature, purposes, or size of the processing, viewed in light of the obligations imposed by the Regulation."  
78.  
In particular, with respect to this criterion, the residual risk to the freedoms and rights of the data subjects, the harm caused to the data subjects, and the damage that persists after the adoption of the measures by the controller must be evaluated, as well as the degree of robustness of the measures adopted under Articles 25 and 32 of the GDPR.  
79.  
In this regard, the supervisory authority may also consider whether the data in question was directly identifiable or available without technical protection. However, it should be noted that the existence of such protection does not necessarily constitute a mitigating factor (see paragraph 82 below). This depends on all the circumstances of the case.  
80.  
In order to adequately assess the above elements, the supervisory authority must take into account any relevant documentation provided by the controller or processor, for example, in the context of exercising their right of defense. In particular, such documentation could provide evidence of when the measures were taken and how they were applied, whether there were interactions between the controller and the processor (if applicable), or whether there has been contact with the DPO or the data subjects (if applicable).  
81.  
Given the higher level of accountability under the GDPR compared to Directive 95/46/EC, it is likely that the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor will be considered an aggravating or neutral factor. Only in exceptional circumstances, when the controller or processor has gone beyond the obligations imposed on them, will this be considered a mitigating factor.  
5.4 — Previous infringements by the controller or processor  
82.  
Previous infringements are infringements already established before the adoption of the decision. In the case of cooperation under Chapter VII of the GDPR, previous infringements are those already established before the draft decision is issued (in the sense of Article 60 of the GDPR).  
83.  
In accordance with Article 83, paragraph 2, letter e), of the GDPR, any relevant previous infringement committed by the controller or processor must be taken into account when deciding whether to impose a  
33 Ibid., p. 13.  
34 Ibid., pp. 14-15.  
35 Ibid., p. 13.
28  
Adopted  
administrative fine and decide the amount of the administrative fine. A similar wording can be found in  
recital 148 of the GDPR.  
5.4.1 — Time Frame  
84.  
First, it should be noted the moment when the previous infringement occurred, considering that the longer the time between a previous infringement and the currently investigated infringement, the less significant it will be. Therefore, the longer the infringement has been committed, the less relevance the supervisory authorities will have. This assessment is at the discretion of the supervisory authority, subject to the applicable national and European legislation and principles.  
85.  
However, since infringements committed a long time ago may still be of interest when assessing the "track record" of the controller or processor, fixed limitation periods should not be established for this purpose. However, some national laws prevent the supervisory authority from considering previous infringements after a set period. Similarly, some national laws impose an obligation to delete records after a certain period, which prevents the supervisory authorities from taking these precedents into account.  
86.  
For the same reason, it should be noted that infringements of the GDPR, being more recent, should be considered more relevant than infringements of national provisions adopted for the implementation of Directive 95/46/EC (if national legislation allows the supervisory authority to take such infringements into account).  
5.4.2 — Subject  
87.  
For the purposes of Article 83(2)(e) of the GDPR, previous infringements of the same or different subject matter as the one being investigated could be considered "relevant."  
88.  
Although all previous infringements may provide an indication of the general attitude of the controller or processor regarding compliance with the GDPR, infringements of the same subject matter should be given greater importance, as they are closer to the currently investigated infringement, especially when the controller or processor previously committed the same infringement (repeated infringements). Therefore, the same infringements of the subject matter should be considered more relevant than previous infringements related to a different subject.  
89.  
For example, the fact that the controller or processor has not responded in the past to data subjects exercising their rights in a timely manner should be considered more pertinent when the investigated infringement also relates to the lack of response to a data subject than when it relates to a personal data breach.  
90.  
However, previous infringements of a different subject matter, but committed in the same manner, should be duly taken into account, as they may indicate persistent problems within the organization of the controller or processor. For example, this would be the case for infringements arising from ignoring the advice provided by the data protection officer.  
5.4.3 — Other Considerations  
91.  
If a previous infringement of the national provisions adopted for the implementation of Directive 95/46/EC is considered, the supervisory authorities must take into account the fact that the requirements of the Directive and the GDPR may differ (if national legislation allows the supervisory authority to take such infringements into account).
29  
Adopted  
92.  
When considering the relevance of a previous infringement, the supervisory authority must take into account the situation of the procedure in which the previous infringement was established, particularly the measures adopted by the supervisory authority or by the judicial authority, in accordance with national law.  
93.  
Previous infringements may also be considered when they were detected by a different supervisory authority in relation to the same controller/processor. For example, the lead supervisory authority dealing with an infringement through the cooperation mechanism (one-stop shop) in accordance with Article 60 of the GDPR could take into account previously determined infringements in local cases by another supervisory authority, in relation to the same controller/processor. Similarly, previously determined infringements by the lead supervisory authority may be taken into account when a different authority must handle a complaint submitted to it in cases with only local repercussions under Article 56, paragraph 2, of the GDPR. When there is no lead supervisory authority (for example, in cases where the controller or processor is not established in the European Union), supervisory authorities may also take into account previously determined infringements by another supervisory authority in relation to the same controller/processor.  
94.  
The existence of previous infringements may be considered an aggravating factor in the calculation of the fine. The weight given to this factor must be determined taking into account the nature and frequency of the previous infringements. However, the absence of previous infringements cannot be considered a mitigating factor, as compliance with the GDPR is the norm. If there are no previous infringements, this factor may be considered neutral.  
5.5 — Degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement  
95.  
Article 83, paragraph 2, letter f), requires that the supervisory authority take into account the degree of cooperation of the controller or processor with the supervisory authority to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement.  
96.  
Before further evaluating the level of cooperation that the controller or processor has established with the supervisory authority, it should be reiterated that the general obligation to cooperate rests with the controller and the processor under Article 31 of the GDPR, and that a lack of cooperation may result in the application of the fine provided for in Article 83, paragraph 4, letter a), of the GDPR. Therefore, the ordinary duty of cooperation must be considered mandatory and, thus, should be regarded as neutral (and not a mitigating factor).  
97.  
However, when cooperation with the supervisory authority has had the effect of limiting or avoiding negative consequences for the rights of individuals that might otherwise have occurred, the supervisory authority may consider this a mitigating factor in the sense of Article 83, paragraph 2, letter f), of the GDPR, thereby reducing the amount of the fine. This may be the case, for example, when a controller or processor "has specifically responded to the requests of the supervisory authority during the investigation phase in that particular case, which has significantly limited the impact on the rights of individuals as a result."36  

36 Guidelines WP253, p. 14.
30  
Adopted  
5.6 — How the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement  
98.  
In accordance with Article 83, paragraph 2, letter h), the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement may be a relevant aggravating or mitigating factor. In evaluating this, particular consideration may be given to whether, and if so, whether the controller or the processor reported the infringement voluntarily, before the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, for example, through a complaint or an investigation. This circumstance is not relevant when the controller is subject to specific notification obligations (such as in the case of personal data breaches in accordance with Article 33)37. In such cases, this notification should be considered neutral38.  
99.  
When the supervisory authority becomes aware of the infringement, for example, through a complaint or an investigation, this element should also generally be considered neutral. The supervisory authority may consider it a mitigating circumstance if the controller or the processor reported the infringement voluntarily, before the supervisory authority became aware of the case.  
5.7 — Compliance with previously ordered measures related to the same issue  
100. Article 83, paragraph 2, letter i), of the GDPR states that "when the measures indicated in Article 58, paragraph 2, have been previously ordered against the controller or the processor in relation to the same matter, compliance with such measures" must be taken into account when deciding whether to impose an administrative fine and determining its amount.  
101. Unlike Article 83, paragraph 2, letter e), of the GDPR, this evaluation only refers to the measures that the supervisory authorities themselves have previously adopted against the same controller or processor regarding the same subject39.  
102. In this regard, the controller or processor may have reasonable expectations that compliance with previously issued measures against them would prevent the same infringement from occurring in the future. However, since compliance with previously ordered measures is mandatory for the controller or processor, it should not be considered a mitigating factor per se. On the contrary, a strengthened commitment by the controller or processor to comply with previous measures is required for this factor to apply as a mitigating circumstance, for example, taking additional measures beyond those ordered by the supervisory authority.  
103. Conversely, non-compliance with a previously ordered corrective measure may be considered an aggravating factor or a separate infringement in itself, in accordance with Article 83, paragraph 5, letter e), and Article 83, paragraph 6, of the GDPR. Therefore, it must be duly noted that the same non-compliant behavior cannot lead to a situation where one is punished twice.  
5.8 — Adherence to approved codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms  
104. Article 83, paragraph 2, letter j), of the GDPR states that adherence to codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with the  

37 It should be emphasized that a personal data breach does not necessarily imply a violation of the GDPR.  
38 This is emphasized in the WP 253 Guidelines, p. 15.  
39 Ibid.
31  
Adopted  
Article 42 of the GDPR may be a relevant factor.  
105. As noted in the WP253 Guidelines, adherence to codes of conduct in accordance with Article 40 of the GDPR or to approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42 of the GDPR may, under certain circumstances, constitute a mitigating factor. The approved codes of conduct will contain, in accordance with Article 40, paragraph 4, of the GDPR, "mechanisms that allow the supervisory body to carry out mandatory monitoring of compliance with its provisions." Certain forms of sanctioning non-compliant behavior may be carried out through the monitoring system, in accordance with Article 41, paragraph 4, of the GDPR, including the suspension or exclusion of the controller or processor in question from the community of codes. Although the supervisory authority may take into account previously imposed sanctions related to the self-regulation system, the powers of the supervisory body are established in Article 41, paragraph 4, of the GDPR "without prejudice to the functions and powers of the competent supervisory authority," which means that the supervisory authority is not obliged to consider the sanctions of the supervisory body.  
106. On the other hand, if the non-compliance with the codes of conduct or certification is directly relevant to the infringement, the supervisory authority may consider this an aggravating circumstance.  
5.9 — Other aggravating and mitigating circumstances  
107. Article 83, paragraph 2, letter k), of the GDPR grants the supervisory authority discretion to take into account any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case. In an individual case, there may be many elements involved that cannot all be codified or listed and that must be considered to ensure that the sanction applied is effective, proportionate, and dissuasive in each specific case.  
108. Article 83, paragraph 2, letter k), of the GDPR mentions examples of "any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case," namely financial benefits obtained, or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, from the infringement. This provision is considered fundamentally important for adjusting the amount of the fine to the specific case. In this sense, it is considered that it should be interpreted as an example of the principle of fairness and justice applied to the individual case.  
109. The scope of this provision, which is necessarily open, must include all motivated considerations related to the socioeconomic context in which the controller or processor operates, those related to the legal context, and those related to the market context.  
110. In particular, the economic benefit of the infringement could be an aggravating circumstance if the case provides information about the benefits obtained as a result of the infringement of the GDPR.  
111. Exceptional circumstances that may lead to significant changes in the socioeconomic context (for example, the onset of a serious pandemic emergency that could radically change the way personal data processing is carried out) could also be considered under Article 83, paragraph 2, letter k), of the GDPR.  
NOTE: The examples in this chapter are illustrations of the effect that circumstances may have.  

40 Ibid.  
41 The EDPB decided this matter in Binding Decision 3/2022 of the EDPB regarding the litigation presented by the Irish DPA concerning Meta Platforms Ireland Limited and its Facebook service (Article 65 of the GDPR) (hereinafter, "Binding Decision 3/2022 of the EDPB"), paragraph 368.
32  
Adopted  
aggravating and mitigating factors regarding the amount of the fine. The increases or decreases mentioned in these hypothetical cases cannot be considered precedents or indications of percentages to be used in real-life cases.  
Example 7.a — Weight of aggravating and mitigating circumstances  
A sports club used facial recognition technology cameras at the entrance of one of its locations in order to identify its customers upon entry. Since the sports club did this in violation of Article 9 of the GDPR (processing of biometric data without a valid exception), the competent supervisory authority decided to impose a fine. Taking into account all relevant circumstances of the case, the supervisory authority considered it to be a violation of a high level of severity, and given that the sports club had an annual turnover of 150 million EUR, an initial amount of 2,000,000 EUR was deemed appropriate (at the top of the category).  
However, the same sports club had been fined two years earlier for using fingerprint technology at turnstiles at another location. The supervisory authority decided to take this into account as a repeated infringement [Article 83(2)(e) of the GDPR]. In doing so, it attributed significance to the fact that it concerned almost the same subject matter and that the infringement was committed only two years prior. Due to this aggravating factor, the supervisory authority decided to increase the fine in this specific case to 2,600,000 EUR, without exceeding the applicable legal maximum of 20 million euros.  
NOTE: The examples in this chapter are illustrations of the effect that aggravating and mitigating circumstances can have on the amount of the fine. The increases or decreases mentioned in these hypothetical cases cannot be considered precedents or indications of percentages to be used in real-life cases.  
Example 7.b — Weight of aggravating and mitigating circumstances  
The operator of a short-term car rental platform suffered a data breach, which made the personal data of its customers vulnerable for a short period of time. Taking into account all relevant circumstances of the case, the supervisory authority considered that the operator's deficiencies in ensuring its platform violated Article 32 of the GDPR, a violation of a low level of severity, and given that the operator had an annual turnover of 255 million EUR, an initial amount of 260,000 EUR was deemed appropriate.  
The compromised personal data included copies of driving licenses and identity documents. For this reason, all customers affected by the data breach were required to reapply for these documents in order to limit the possibility of identity theft. When informing the affected parties of this incident, the operator offered all affected individuals assistance in reapplying for these documents from the appropriate public institutions and created a system to reimburse the fees paid for the application. The supervisor considered this as "actions to mitigate the damage suffered by the affected parties" [Article 83(2)(c) of the GDPR], which had a mitigating effect on the fine. Given the proactive attitude and effectiveness of the measures taken by the operator, the supervisory authority decided  

42 This demonstrates that the categories of initial amounts do not limit the ability of supervisory authorities to take into account aggravating and mitigating circumstances to an amount higher or lower than the categories. As reiterated in Chapter 4.3, these figures are starting points for subsequent calculation, and not fixed amounts (price tags) for violations of the provisions of the GDPR. The supervisory authority retains the discretionary power to use the full range of fines from an amount above 0 EUR to the legal maximum, ensuring that the fine is tailored to the circumstances of the case.
33  
Adopted  
to reduce the fine to EUR 225,000, once again not exceeding the legal maximum of EUR 10 million.  
The examples in this chapter illustrate the effect that aggravating and mitigating circumstances can have on the amount of the fine. The increases or decreases mentioned in these hypothetical cases cannot be considered precedents or indications of percentages to be used in real-life cases.  
Example 7c — Weight of aggravating and mitigating circumstances  
It was found that a small credit rating agency had violated several provisions that safeguarded the rights of stakeholders, particularly because it charged its clients a fee for exercising their right of access. The agency did this for all access requests, not just those mentioned in Article 12, paragraph 5, letter a), of the GDPR. Considering all the relevant circumstances of the case, the supervisory authority deemed that the violations identified were of a high level of severity, and since the agency had an annual turnover of EUR 35 million, an initial amount of EUR 100,000 was deemed appropriate.  
However, the supervisory authority considered that the fact that the agency could benefit from the violation was an aggravating circumstance [Article 83, paragraph 2, letter k), of the GDPR]. In order to counteract the benefits of the violation, while maintaining an effective, deterrent, and proportionate fine in this case, the supervisory authority decided to increase the fine to EUR 130,000, without exceeding the applicable legal maximum of EUR 20 million.  
The examples in this chapter illustrate the effect that aggravating and mitigating circumstances can have on the amount of the fine. The increases or decreases mentioned in these hypothetical cases cannot be considered precedents or indications of percentages to be used in real-life cases.  
Example 7d — Weight of aggravating and mitigating circumstances  
It was found that a company had violated the provisions of the GDPR, particularly due to the sale of its database for commercial prospecting to partners containing personal data related to individuals who had not given their consent to be prospected for commercial purposes.  
Considering all the relevant circumstances of the case, the supervisory authority deemed that the violations identified were of a medium level of severity, and since the company had an annual turnover of EUR 45 million, an initial amount of EUR 150,000 was deemed appropriate.  
Furthermore, the authority considered that this was a violation that benefited the data controller due to the failure to obtain consent from individuals for the transmission of their data for the purpose of sending targeted advertising, which increased the pool of data that could subsequently be resold. Therefore, the supervisory authority considered that the fact that the agency could benefit from the violation was an aggravating circumstance [Article 83, paragraph 2, letter k), of the GDPR]. In order to counteract the gains derived from the violation, while maintaining an effective, deterrent, and proportionate fine in this case, the supervisory authority decided to increase the fine to EUR 200,000 without exceeding the applicable legal maximum of EUR 20 million.  

43 See the previous note.
34  
Adopted  
CHAPTER 6 — LEGAL MAXIMUM AND CORPORATE LIABILITY  
6.1 — Determination of the Legal Maximum  
112. As already indicated in the WP253 Guidelines, the GDPR does not label fixed sums for specific infringements. Instead, the GDPR establishes global maximum amounts and, therefore, follows the general tradition of EU legislation on sanctions already established by other legal acts.  
113. The amounts in Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR constitute the legal maximum and prohibit supervisory authorities from imposing fines that, in their outcome, exceed the applicable maximum amounts. To determine the correct legal maximum, Article 83, paragraph 3, of the GDPR must be taken into account when applicable (see Chapter 3.1.2). Therefore, each supervisory authority must ensure that these maximum amounts are not exceeded when calculating fines based on these Guidelines. Depending on the individual case, different maximum amounts may become relevant.  
6.1.1. Static Maximum Amounts  
114. Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR establishes static amounts as the norm and differentiates between infringements of different categories of obligations under the GDPR. As explained earlier, Article 83, paragraph 4, of the GDPR provides for fines of up to 10 million EUR for violating the obligations set out therein, while Article 83, paragraphs 5 and 6, of the GDPR provides for fines of up to 20 million EUR for violating the obligations described in them.  
6.1.2 — Dynamic Maximum Amounts  
115. In the case of a company, the range of fines may shift to a maximum amount based on the highest turnover. This maximum amount based on turnover is dynamic and individualized towards the respective company in order to achieve the principles of effectiveness, proportionality, and deterrence.  
116. More specifically, Article 83, paragraph 4, of the GDPR provides for a maximum amount of 2%, and Article 83, paragraphs 5 and 6, for a maximum amount of 4% of the total annual turnover of the company from the previous financial year. The wording of the GDPR requires consideration of the static maximum amount or the dynamic maximum amount based on turnover, "whichever is higher." Therefore, these maximum amounts based on turnover only apply if they exceed the static maximum in the specific case. This is the case when the total annual turnover of the company from the previous financial year exceeds 500 million EUR.  
Example 8.a — Dynamic Maximum  
A credit reporting agency (CRA) collects and sells all data from  

44 Recital 150 of the GDPR, second sentence: "This Regulation must indicate the infringements as well as the maximum limit and the criteria for setting the corresponding administrative fines, which the competent supervisory authority must determine in each individual case taking into account all the concurrent circumstances in it, paying particular attention to the nature, gravity, and duration of the infringement and its consequences and to the measures taken to ensure compliance with the obligations imposed by this Regulation and to prevent or mitigate the consequences of the infringement."  
45 In particular, Article 23, paragraph 2, of Regulation (EC) No. 1/2003, of December 16, 2002, on the application of the rules on competition established in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty.  
46 See also Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB, paragraph 326.  
47 Regarding the term "company," see Chapter 6.2.1 of these Guidelines.  
48 Regarding the term "turnover," see Chapter 6.2.2 of these Guidelines.  
49 2% of 500 million amounts to 10 million (the maximum static amount provided in Article 83, paragraph 4, of the GDPR) and 4% of 500 million amounts to 20 million (the maximum static amount provided in Article 83, paragraph 5, of the GDPR).
35  
Adopted  
solvency of all EU citizens to advertising and retail companies without legal basis. The annual global turnover of the CRA from the previous year amounts to 3 billion euros. In this case, the CRA violated, among others, Article 6, which may be sanctioned with a fine pursuant to Article 83, paragraph 5, of the GDPR. The static maximum would amount to 20 million EUR. The dynamic maximum would amount to 120 million EUR (4% of 3 billion EUR). The fine may reach up to 120 million euros, as this dynamic maximum exceeds the static maximum of 20 million EUR. Consequently, the fine is allowed to exceed the static maximum of 20 million euros, but must not exceed the applicable legal maximum of 120 million EUR.  
Example 8b — Static Maximum  
A sunglasses retailer operates an online store that allows customers to place their orders. Through the order form, the retailer also processes personal data, including bank account details. The retailer does not provide adequate https transport encryption so that third parties can intercept personal data during the transaction. The retailer violates Article 32, paragraph 1, of the GDPR and may be fined pursuant to Article 83, paragraph 4, of the GDPR. The annual global turnover of the retailer from the previous year amounts to 450 million euros. In this case, the static maximum of 10 million EUR is higher than the dynamic maximum of 9 million EUR (= 2% of 450 million EUR), so the maximum of 10 million EUR prevails. Therefore, the fine must not exceed the legal maximum of 10 million euros.  
Example 8c — Controllers and Processors that are not Companies  
A municipality has an online system that allows its citizens to register for appointments, such as applying for a passport or a marriage license. The municipality is solely responsible for this online system. Unfortunately, the system also permanently transmits the collected data to external servers of a processor in an inadequate third country, where they are stored. No adequate safeguards are established regarding the transfer to the third country. Except for the transfer, the data is collected and processed on the basis of valid consent. The municipality violated Article 44 of the GDPR by transferring special categories of personal data to an inadequate third country without adequate safeguards. Therefore, it may be fined pursuant to Article 83, paragraph 5. Since the municipality does not meet the definition of a company, the static legal maximum applies, so the fine must not exceed 20 million euros. However, this only occurs if the Member State in which this municipality is located has not established specific rules on whether and to what extent administrative fines may be imposed on authorities and public bodies established in that Member State (Article 83, paragraph 7, of the GDPR).  
6.2 — Determination of Turnover and Corporate Responsibility of the Company  
117. To determine the correct turnover for the dynamic legal maximum, it is important to understand the concepts of company and turnover as used in Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR. In this regard, maximum attention must be paid to the recitals of the GDPR, provided by the European legislator for guidance on the interpretation of the GDPR.  
6.2.1. Determination of Companies and Social Responsibility  
118. Regarding the term "company," the European legislator provides additional explicit clarifications. Recital 150 of the GDPR states: "When administrative fines are imposed on a company, a company should be understood as a company in accordance with Articles 101 and 102 of the TFEU for these purposes."  
119. Therefore, Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR, in light of Recital 150, is based on the concept
36  
Adopted  
by companies in accordance with Articles 101 and 102 of the TFEU50, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 18, of the GDPR (which defines what a company is) and Article 4, paragraph 19, of the GDPR (which defines what a group of companies is). The first concept is primarily used in Chapter V of the GDPR, in the phrase "group of companies participating in a joint economic activity." Furthermore, the term is applied in a general sense, not as a recipient of a provision or obligation.  
120. Therefore, in cases where the data controller or processor is (part of) a company in the sense of Articles 101 and 102 of the TFEU, the combined turnover of that company as a whole may be used to determine the maximum dynamic limit of the fine (see Chapter 6.2.2) and to ensure that the resulting fine complies with the principles of effectiveness, proportionality, and deterrence (Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR)51.  
121. The CJEU has developed extensive case law on the concept of a company. The term "company" "includes all entities that engage in economic activity, regardless of the legal status of the entity and how it is financed"52. For the purposes of competition law, "companies" are therefore identified with economic units and not with legal units. Different companies belonging to the same group can constitute an economic unit and, therefore, a company in the sense of Articles 101 TFEU and 102 TFEU53.  
122. In line with the established case law of the CJEU, the term company in Articles 101 and 102 of the TFEU may refer to a single economic unit (SEU, for its acronym in English), even if that economic unit is formed by several natural or legal persons. Whether several entities form an SEU largely depends on whether the individual entity is free in its decision-making capacity or whether a principal entity, namely, the parent company, exerts decisive influence over the others54. The criteria for determining this are based on the economic, legal, and organizational links between the parent company and its subsidiary, for example, the amount of the shareholding, personnel or organizational links, instructions, and the existence of business contracts55.  
123. In accordance with the SEU doctrine, Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR follows the principle of direct corporate liability, which implies that all acts performed or neglected by individuals authorized to act on behalf of companies are attributable to those companies and are considered a  

50 As clarified in working document 253 and subsequently confirmed by the EDPS in its approval 1/2018, on May 25, 2018. See also the Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPS, paragraph 292, and the Regional Court LG Bonn, case 29 OWi 1/20, of November 11, 2020, paragraph 92.  
51 See the Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPS, paragraphs 412 and 423, and also cases C-286/13 P, Dole Food and Dole Fresh Fruit Europe/European Commission, paragraph 149 and C-189/02 P, Dansk Rørindustri and others/Commission, paragraph 258.  
52 Case C-41/90, Klaus Höfner and Fritz Elser v. Macrotron GmbH, paragraph 21. See also, for example, the joined cases C-159 and 160/91, Poucet and Pistre v. Assurances Générales de France, paragraph 17; case C-364/92, SAT Fluggesellschaft mbH v. Eurocontrol, paragraph 18; joined cases C-180 to 184/98, Pavlov and others, paragraph 74; and case C-138/11, Compass-Datenbank GmbH v. Republic of Austria, paragraph 35.  
53 Case C-516/15 P, Akzo Nobel and others/Commission, paragraph 48.  
54 To clarify, the "decision-making capacity" that must be assessed in order to determine whether a parent company exerts decisive influence over others in the group refers to the decision-making capacity regarding the conduct of the subsidiary "in the market." This is different and completely separate from the influence that a parent company may or may not have over the processing in question and, in particular, the ability to make decisions regarding "the purposes and means" of the processing. Such issues should be assessed as part of any examination of the identity of the data controller and are not relevant to the assessment of decisive influence for the purposes of establishing a single economic unit.  
55 See case C-90/09 P, General Química and others/Commission. The main criterion for establishing this is "decisive influence," which must be constructed based on factual evidence (economic, organizational, and legal links). Additionally, there is a rebuttable presumption of influence in the case of a wholly-owned subsidiary. See case C-97/08 P, Akzo Nobel and others/Commission and the joined cases C-293/13 and 294/13 P, Fresh Del Monte.
37  
Adopted  
act and an infringement committed directly by the company itself. The fact that some employees did not comply with a code of conduct is not sufficient to interrupt this attribution. Rather, it is only disturbed when the individual acts solely for their own private purposes or for the purposes of a third party, thus becoming a separate liable party (i.e., the individual has acted beyond their permitted mandate). This principle of European Union law and the scope of corporate liability take precedence and should not be undermined by limiting it to the acts of certain officials (such as senior executives) in contradiction to national law. It is not relevant which individual acted on behalf of which entity. Therefore, the supervisory authority and national courts should not be required to determine or identify an individual in investigations or in the decision to impose a fine.  
124. In the specific case where a parent company owns 100% of the shares or almost 100% of the shares of a subsidiary that has infringed Article 83 of the GDPR and, therefore, can exert decisive influence over the behavior of its subsidiary, the presumption arises that the parent company effectively exercises this decisive influence over the behavior of its subsidiary (the so-called Akzo presumption). This also applies if the parent company does not directly own the shares in the total capital but indirectly through one or more subsidiaries. For example, there may also be a chain of subsidiaries, where one entity owns 100% or almost 100% of the shares of an intermediate entity that owns 100% or almost 100% of the shares of another entity, and so on. Furthermore, a parent company may own 100% or almost 100% of the shares of two entities that each own around 50% of another entity, which provides the parent company with decisive influence over all of them. In these circumstances, it is sufficient for the supervisory authority to demonstrate that the subsidiary is wholly or almost wholly owned by the parent company to generally presume, based on practical experience, that the parent exercises decisive influence.  
125. However, the Akzo presumption is not absolute and can be rebutted by other evidence. To rebut the presumption, companies must provide evidence regarding the organizational, economic, and legal links between the subsidiary and its parent company that can demonstrate that they do not constitute a single economic unit (SEU) despite owning 100% or almost 100% of the shares. To determine whether the subsidiary itself acts autonomously, all relevant elements concerning the links connecting the subsidiary to the parent company must be considered, which may vary from case to case and therefore cannot be listed exhaustively.  
126. If, on the contrary, the parent company does not own all or almost all of the capital, the supervisory authority must demonstrate additional facts to justify the existence of an SEU. In such a case, the supervisory authority must demonstrate not only that the parent company has the capacity to exert decisive influence over the subsidiary but also that it has effectively exercised such decisive influence so that it can intervene at any time in the subsidiary's freedom of choice and determine its behavior. The nature or type of instruction is irrelevant when determining the influence of the parent company.  

56 See the joined cases C-100 to 103/80, SA Musique Diffusion française and others/Commission, paragraph 97, and case C-338/00 P, Volkswagen/Commission, paragraphs 93 to 98.  
57 Case C-501/11 P, Schindler Holding and others/Commission, paragraph 114; Therefore, it is important for companies that their compliance management system is not merely a "paper shield," but is genuinely effective in practice.  
58 See, in particular, Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of controller and processor in the GDPR (hereinafter, "BPD Guidelines 07/2020"), paragraph 19.  
59 Case C-338/00 P, Volkswagen/Commission, paragraphs 97 and 98; any contrary national legislation is not compliant with the GDPR and the principle of effectiveness and to the extent that it should not be applied.  
60 Case C-97/08 P, Akzo Nobel and others/Commission, paragraphs 59 and 60.  
61 Cases T-38/05, Agroexpansión/Commission and C-508/11 P, Eni/Commission, paragraph 48.  
62 See, among others, case C-595/18 P, The Goldman Sachs Group/Commission, ECLI: EU: C: 2021:73, paragraph 32, citing case C-611/18 P, Pirelli & C./Commission, not published, paragraph 68, and the cited case law.
38  
Adopted  
127. The fine is imposed on the (co)responsible parties/agents, and the competent supervisory authority has the option to hold the parent company jointly or separately liable for the payment of the fine.  
6.2.2 — Determination of turnover  
128. The turnover is extracted from the annual accounts of a company, which are prepared with reference to its financial year and provide an overview of the previous financial year of a company or a group of companies (consolidated accounts). Turnover is defined as the sum of all goods and services sold. Net turnover means the amount derived from the sale of products and the provision of services after deducting sales discounts and value-added tax (VAT) and other taxes directly linked to turnover.  
129. Turnover is taken from the presentation of the income statement. Net turnover includes income from the sale, rental, and financial leasing of products and income from the sale of services less deductions for sales (for example, discounts, rebates) and VAT.  
130. If the company is subject to the obligation to prepare consolidated annual financial statements, these consolidated financial statements of the parent company heading the group are relevant to reflect the combined turnover of the company. In the absence of such statements, other documents will be obtained and used to infer the global annual turnover of the company in the relevant financial year.  
131. Article 83, paragraphs 4 to 6, of the GDPR establishes that the total global annual turnover of the previous financial year will be used. Regarding the question of what event the term "previous" refers to, the jurisprudence of the CJEU in competition law must also apply to GDPR fines, so that the relevant event is the fine decision issued by the supervisory authority and not the time of the infringement or the court decision. In the case of cross-border processing, the relevant fine decision is not the draft decision, but the final decision issued by the lead supervisory authority. When the draft decision enters the co-decision process under Article 60 towards the end of the calendar year, such that it is unlikely that the final decision will be adopted within that same calendar year, the lead supervisory authority will calculate any proposed fine based on the most up-to-date financial information available on the date the draft decision is distributed to the affected supervisory authorities for them to issue their opinions. This information will be updated, as necessary, before the  

63 The decision imposing the fine is addressed and delivered to the responsible party or parties as infringers of the violation and may also be addressed and delivered to other legal entities of the SEU that are jointly or separately liable for the fine.  
64 Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB, paragraph 290.  
65 See, for example, Article 2, paragraph 5, of Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, of June 26, 2013, on annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, and related reports of certain types of companies, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (hereinafter, "Directive 2013/34/EU"), applicable to limited liability companies, or similar applicable legislation, and Article 5, paragraph 1, of Council Regulation (EC) No. 139/2004 on the control of concentrations between undertakings (hereinafter, "EC Merger Regulation").  
66 See, for example, Annexes V or VI of Article 13, paragraph 1, of Directive 2013/34/EU under the heading "net turnover," or similar applicable legislation.  
67 See, for example, Articles 21 and following of Directive 2013/34/EU, or similar applicable legislation.  
68 C-58/12 P Groupe Gascogne SA/European Commission, ECLI:EU:C:2013:770, paragraphs 54 to 55.  
69 Regional Court LG Bonn, case 29 OWi 1/20, November 11, 2020, paragraph 95, referencing case C-637/13 P, Badezimmerkartell Laufen Austria, paragraph 49, and case C-408/12 P, YKK and others, paragraph 90.  
70 Binding Decision 1/2021 of the EDPB, paragraph 298.
39  
Adopted  
completion and adoption of the final national decision by the main supervisory authority.  
CHAPTER 7 — EFFECTIVENESS, PROPORTIONALITY, AND DETERRENCE  
132. The administrative fine imposed for the infringements of the GDPR referred to in Article 83, paragraphs 4–6, must, in each specific case, be effective, proportionate, and deterrent. In other words, the amount of the fine imposed is tailored to the infringement committed in its specific context. The EDPB considers that it is the responsibility of the supervisory authorities to verify whether the amount of the fine meets these requirements, or if new adjustments to the amount are necessary.  
133. As explained in Chapter 4, the assessment carried out in this chapter encompasses the entirety of the fine imposed and all the circumstances of the case, including, for example, the accumulation of multiple infringements, increases and decreases due to aggravating and mitigating circumstances, and financial/socioeconomic circumstances. However, it is the responsibility of the supervisory authority to ensure that the same circumstances are not counted twice.  
134. In the event that these adjustments warrant an increase in the fine, such increase may, by definition, not exceed the legal maximum indicated in the previous Chapter 6.  
7.1. Effectiveness  
135. Generally speaking, a fine can be considered effective if it achieves the objectives for which it was imposed. This could consist of restoring compliance with the rules, punishing unlawful conduct, or both. Additionally, Recital 148 of the GDPR emphasizes that administrative fines must be imposed "to reinforce the enforcement of the rules of this Regulation." Therefore, the amount of the fine imposed based on these Guidelines must be sufficient to achieve these objectives.  
136. As required by Article 83, paragraph 2, of the GDPR, the supervisory authority must assess the effectiveness of the fine in each specific case. To this end, due attention must be paid to the circumstances of the case and, in particular, to the assessment carried out previously, taking into account that the fine must also be proportionate and deterrent, as indicated below.  
7.2 — Proportionality  
137. The principle of proportionality requires that the measures adopted do not exceed the limits of what is appropriate and necessary to achieve the legitimate objectives pursued by the legislation in question; when choosing between several appropriate measures, the least burdensome option should be used, and the disadvantages caused must not be disproportionate in relation to the objectives pursued.  
138. It follows that fines must not be disproportionate in relation to the objectives pursued (i.e., compliance with the rules concerning the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the rules concerning the free movement of personal data), and that the amount of the fine imposed must be proportionate to the infringement, considered as a whole, taking into account  

71 Guidelines WP 253, p. 6.  
72 As also indicated in Recital 148 of the GDPR: "the nature, gravity, and duration of the infringement, the intentionality of the infringement, the actions taken to mitigate the damage suffered, the degree of responsibility or any relevant prior infringements, the manner in which the infringement became known to the supervisory authority, compliance with the measures ordered against the controller or processor, adherence to a code of conduct, and any other aggravating or mitigating factors."  
73 Case T-704/14, Marine Harvest/Commission, paragraph 580, referring to case T-332/09, Electrabel/Commission, paragraph 279.
40  
Adopted  
taking into account, in particular, the severity of the infringement74.  
139. Therefore, the supervisory authority will verify that the amount of the fine is proportional both to the severity of the infringement and to the size of the company to which the entity that committed the infringement belongs75, and that the imposed fine will not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives pursued by the GDPR.  
140. As a particular consequence of the principle of proportionality, the supervisory authority may consider, in accordance with national law, further reducing the fine based on the principle of inability to pay. Any such reduction requires exceptional circumstances. In line with the European Commission Guidelines on the method for calculating fines76, there must be objective evidence that the imposition of the fine would irreparably jeopardize the economic viability of the affected company. Furthermore, the risks must be analyzed in a specific social and economic context.  
a) Economic viability: The company must provide detailed financial data (for the last five years, as well as projections for the current and the next two years) to allow the supervisory authority to examine the likely future evolution of key factors such as solvency, liquidity, and profitability. European courts have stated that the mere circumstance of a company being in a poor financial situation, or being so after a large fine, does not meet the requirement "since the recognition of such an obligation would amount to giving an unjustified competitive advantage to companies less adapted to market conditions"77. The assessment of the company's ability to pay the fine also considers possible restructuring plans and their state of execution, relationships with external financial partners/institutions such as banks, and relationships with shareholders78.  
b) Proof of loss of value: A reduction of the fine can only be granted if the imposition of the fine jeopardizes the economic viability of a company and causes its assets to lose all or most of their value79. A direct causal relationship must be demonstrated between the fine and the significant loss of value of the assets. There is no automatic acceptance that bankruptcy or insolvency will necessarily result in a significant loss of asset value. Furthermore, it cannot be said that the fine has threatened the economic viability of a company when it itself had decided to cease its activities and sell all its assets. The company must demonstrate that it is likely to exit the market and that its assets will be dismantled or sold at substantially discounted prices with no alternatives for the company (or its assets) to continue operations. This means that the supervisory authority must require the company to demonstrate that there are no clear indications that the company (or its assets) is being acquired by another party.  

74 Ibid.  
75 See, in this regard, case C-387/97, Commission/Greece, paragraph 90, and case C-278/01, Commission/Spain, paragraph 41, where the fine had to be "appropriate to the circumstances and proportionate both to the established infringement and to the payment capacity of the Member State in question."  
76 See, for example, the Commission Guidelines for calculating fines imposed under Article 23(2)(a) of Regulation No. 1/2003 (2006/C 210/02).  
77 See the joined cases C-189/02 P, C-202/02 P, C-205/02 P to C-208/02 P and C-213/02 P, Dansk Rørindustri and others/Commission, paragraph 327, citing the joined cases 96/82 to 102/82, 104/82, 105/82, 108/82, and 110/82, NV IAZ International Belgium and others/Commission, paragraphs 54 and 55. This was reiterated more recently in case C-308/04 P, SGL Carbon/Commission, paragraph 105, and in case T-429/10 (joined cases T-426/10, T-427/10, T-428/10, T-429/10, T-438/12, T-439/12, T-440/12, T-441/12), Global Steel Wire/Commission, paragraphs 492-493.  
78 See case T-429/10 (joined cases T-426/10, T-427/10, T-428/10, T-429/10, T-438/12, T-439/12, T-440/12, T-441/12), Global Steel Wire/Commission, paragraphs 521 to 527.  
79 See the joined cases T-236/01, T-239/01, T-244/01 to T-246/01, T-251/01 and T-252/01, Tokai Carbon and others/Commission, paragraph 372, and case T-64/02, Heubach/Commission, paragraph 163. See case T-393/10 INTP, Westfälische Drahtindustrie and others/Commission, paragraphs 293 and 294.
41  
Adopted  
company/owner and continue its operations.  
c) Specific social and economic context: The specific economic context may be considered if the sector in question is undergoing a cyclical crisis (for example, suffering from overcapacity or a drop in prices) or if companies are having difficulties accessing capital or credit as a result of prevailing economic conditions. The specific social context is likely to be present in the context of high or rising unemployment at the regional or broader level. It may also be assessed taking into account the consequences that the payment of the fine may have in terms of increased unemployment or deterioration of the economic sectors above and below.  
141. If the criteria are met, the regulatory authorities may take into account the company's inability to pay and reduce the fine accordingly.  
7.3 — Deterrence  
142. Finally, a deterrent fine is one that has a genuine deterrent effect. In this regard, a distinction can be made between general deterrence (dissuading others from committing the same infringement in the future) and specific deterrence (dissuading the recipient of the fine from reoffending). When imposing a fine, the regulatory authority takes into account both general and specific deterrence.  
143. A fine is deterrent when it prevents a person from infringing the objectives pursued and the norms established by Union Law. What is decisive in this regard is not only the nature and level of the fine but also the likelihood of it being imposed. Anyone who commits an infringement must fear that the fine will indeed be imposed. Here, there is an overlap between the criterion of deterrence and that of effectiveness.  
144. Regulatory authorities may consider increasing the fine if they do not believe the amount is sufficiently deterrent. In some circumstances, the imposition of a deterrent multiplier may be justified. This multiplier may be established at the discretion of the regulatory authority in order to reflect the deterrence objectives described above.  
CHAPTER 8 — FLEXIBILITY AND PERIODIC EVALUATION  
145. The previous chapters outline a general method for calculating fines and will facilitate greater harmonization and transparency in the fine practices of regulatory authorities. However, this general method should not be misinterpreted as a form of automatic or arithmetic calculation. The individual setting of a fine must always be based on a human assessment of all relevant circumstances of the case and must be effective, proportionate, and deterrent in relation to that specific case.  
146. It should be noted that these guidelines cannot anticipate all possible particularities of a case and, in this regard, cannot provide exhaustive guidance to regulatory authorities. Consequently, these guidelines are subject to periodic review in order to assess whether their application effectively achieves the objectives required by the GDPR. The EDPS may review these guidelines based on the new experiences of regulatory authorities in everyday practical application and may suspend, modify, limit, amend, or replace these guidelines at any time with effect for the future.  

42  
Adopted
43  
Adopted  
ANNEX — TABLE FOR THE ILLUSTRATION OF GUIDELINES 04/2022  
ON THE CALCULATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE FINES IN ACCORDANCE WITH  
THE GDPR  
Reading Guide  
-  
This table should be read together with the entirety of the Guidelines and is not intended to serve as a complete summary of the Guidelines, nor as an alternative to considering them as a whole.  
-  
This table is for illustrative purposes only and does not constitute a complete or conclusive representation of the position of the EDPB on the calculation of administrative fines.  
-  
The table consists of two steps: one that illustrates the range for the initial amount based on severity, and another that illustrates the range for the initial amount after the adjustment applied for the size of the company.  
-  
The numbers used as starting amounts correspond, on one hand, to the Commission's Recommendation for SMEs and to how the turnover figures mentioned in that Recommendation relate to the turnover derived from Article 83 of the GDPR. On the other hand, regarding the severity of the infringement, the figures are based on knowledge of current fine imposition practices and extensive internal testing with fine models over several years. The EDPB is convinced that these starting points do justice to the principles of effectiveness, proportionality, and deterrence, as prescribed in Article 83, paragraph 1, of the GDPR.  
-  
However, as always, the EDPB is aware that the calculation of an administrative fine is not a purely mathematical exercise, and that real-life cases and practices will inevitably lead to a further refinement of the starting points in this table. To this end, the Guidelines mention that the table and its numbers remain subject to close review by the EDPB and will be adjusted if necessary.  
-  
It should also be reiterated that these figures are the starting points for subsequent calculations, and not fixed amounts (price tags). The supervisory authority has the discretion to use the full range of fines from any amount up to and including the legal maximum.  
-  
In the first step, the more severe the infringement within its own category, the higher the initial amount will be.  
-  
In the second step, the percentages lead the determination of the final initial amount, while adjustments can be made to a certain percentage of the initial amount identified in step 1. This means that the percentage chosen in step 2 will be used as a multiplier of the initial amount determined in step 1. The higher the turnover of the company within its applicable level, the higher the starting amount in step 2 will be.  
-  
The amounts in the second step simply illustrate the lowest of the minimums and the highest of the maximums that can be applied in the category. The final initial amount will fall somewhere within these extremes. These ranges in the second step, therefore, serve as a sanity check for the person in charge of the case.  
-  
Note that there is no adjustment in step 2 for companies with a turnover of 500 million euros or more, as such companies will exceed the static legal maximum and, therefore, the size of the company is already reflected in the dynamic legal maximum used to determine the starting amount for subsequent calculations in step 1.  
-  
The application of the methodology, including the use of the tables, is illustrated with two examples at the end of this Annex.  
Step 1: Calculation of the starting amount based on severity  
NB. The more severe the infringement within its own category, the higher the starting amount in this first step.  

Low severity level  
Medium severity level  
High severity level  

Static range  
Dynamic range  
in the case of a  
turnover >  
500 m  
Static range  
Dynamic range  
in the case of a  
turnover >  
500 m  
Static range  
Dynamic range  
in the case of a  
turnover > 500 m  
83(4) GDPR  
0-1 m  
0-0.2% of  
annual turnover  
1 m — 2 m  
0.2% — 0.4%  
of annual turnover  
2 m — 10 m  
0.4% — 2% of  
annual turnover  
83(5)(6) GDPR  
0-2 m  
0-0.4% of  
annual turnover  
2 m — 4 m  
0.4% — 0.8%  
of annual turnover  
4 m — 20 m  
0.8% — 4% of  
annual turnover  

Step 2: Adjustment of the starting amount based on the size of the company (only  
applicable to companies to which the static legal range applies)  
NB. The higher the turnover of the company within its applicable level, the more likely the starting amount will be in this second stage.  
Article 83, paragraph 4, of the GDPR  

Low severity level  
Medium severity level  
High severity level  
Companies with a  
turnover of  
250 million euros  
up to 500 million euros  
40-100% of the initial amount  
0-1 m  
400,000-2 m  
800,000-10 m
45  
Adopted  

Low level of severity  
Medium level of severity  
High level of severity  
Companies with a turnover of  
100 million euros  
up to 250 million euros  
15-50% of the initial amount  
0-500,000  
150,000-1 million  
300,000-5 million  
Companies with a turnover of  
50 million euros  
up to 100 million euros  
8-20% of the initial amount  
0-200,000  
80,000-400,000  
160,000-2 million  
Companies with a turnover of  
10 million euros  
up to 50 million euros  
1.5-10% of the initial amount  
0-100,000  
15,000-200,000  
30,000-1 million  
Companies with a turnover of  
2 million euros up to  
10 million euros  
0.3-2% of the initial amount  
0-20,000  
3,000-40,000  
6,000-200,000  
Companies with a turnover of  
up to 2 million euros  
0.2-0.4% of the initial amount  
0-4,000  
2,000-8,000  
4,000-40,000  

46  
Adopted  
Article 83, paragraph 5, paragraph 6, of the GDPR  

Low level of severity  
Medium level of severity  
High level of severity  
Companies with a turnover of  
250 million euros  
up to 500 million euros  
40-100% of the initial amount  
0-2 million  
800,000-4 million  
1.6 million — 20 million  
Companies with a turnover of  
100 million euros  
up to 250 million euros  
15-50% of the initial amount  
0-1 million  
300,000-2 million  
600,000-10 million  
Companies with a turnover of  
50 million euros  
up to 100 million euros  
8-20% of the initial amount  
0-400,000  
160,000-800,000  
320,000-4 million  
Companies with a turnover of  
10 million euros  
up to 50 million euros  
0.5-10% of the initial amount  
0-200,000  
30,000-400,000  
60,000-2 million  
Companies with a turnover of  
2 million euros up to  
10 million euros  
0.3-2% of the initial amount  
0-40,000  
6,000-80,000  
12,000-400,000  
Companies with a turnover of  
up to 2 million euros  
0.2-0.4% of the initial amount  

Low level of severity  
Medium level of severity  
High level of severity  

47  
Adopted  

0-8,000  
4,000-16,000  
8,000-80,000  
Step-by-step approach on how to apply Chapter 4 of the Guidelines on fines,  
including the tables  
Example A  
It is discovered that a social media company with a turnover of 200 million euros has sold confidential data of its users to various data brokers. For the purposes of this example, the company has only violated Article 9 of the GDPR. The supervisory authority, after analyzing all relevant circumstances of the case under Article 83, paragraph 2, letters a), b), and g), decided that the violation is of a high level of severity.  
After this, the supervisory authority must decide the starting amount for its subsequent calculation. Article 9 is listed in Article 83, paragraph 5, letter a), of the GDPR, which states that the legal maximum is 20 million EUR or 4% of the annual turnover. In this case, the company's turnover is below 500 million EUR, which means that the maximum and static range are applicable. Therefore, a starting amount between 20% and 100% of the applicable legal maximum must be considered, i.e., 4 million EUR and 20 million EUR.  
Considering that the more severe the violation within its own category, the higher the starting amount is likely to be, the supervisory authority decides that the starting amount based on the severity of the violation, as indicated in step 1, should be 10 million EUR.  
In step 2, the initial amount identified in step 1 will be adjusted based on the size of the company. The company has an annual turnover of 200 million EUR and, therefore, falls within the range of 100 to 250 million EUR. This means that the initial amount will be adjusted to an amount between 15% and 50% of the initial amount. Considering that the higher the company's turnover within its applicable level, the higher the starting amount is likely to be, the supervisory authority decides that an adjustment up to 40% of the initial amount identified in step 1 is justified based on the size of the company. The initial amount after the adjustment will be 4 million EUR in this case.  
To ensure that this starting amount aligns with the Guidelines, this amount can be cross-checked with the ranges included in the applicable table. Considering that Article 83, paragraph 5, of the GDPR is applicable, the company has a turnover between 100 and 250 million EUR and the level of severity is high, the starting amount must be between 600,000 and 10 million EUR. The supervisory authority concludes that a starting amount of 4 million EUR is within the range of 600,000 and 10 million EUR. Therefore, the starting amount complies with the Guidelines.  
Next, the supervisory authority proceeds to calculate the fine based on the rest of the Guidelines.  
Example B  
A hotel chain with a turnover of 2 billion euros has violated Article 12 of the GDPR. The supervisory authority, after analyzing the circumstances of the case under Article 83, paragraph 2, letters a), b), and g), decided that the violation is of a medium level of severity.  
After this, the supervisory authority must decide the starting amount for its subsequent calculation. The supervisory authority first identifies that Article 12 of the GDPR is listed in Article 83, paragraph 5, letter b), of the GDPR. The company's turnover is 2 billion euros, which is more than 500 million euros, so the dynamic maximum applies. This means that the legal maximum is 4% of the annual turnover.
48  
Adopted  
by the company, which amounts to 80 million EUR. The level of severity is medium and, therefore, the starting amount must be considered between 10% and 20% of the applicable legal maximum, that is, 0.4% and 0.8% of the annual turnover, which corresponds to a starting amount between 8 million EUR and 16 million EUR.  
Considering that the more serious the infringement within its own category, the higher the starting amount will be, the supervisory authority considers that, due to the severity of the infringement, the starting amount should be 12 million EUR, that is, 15% of the applicable legal maximum and 0.6% of the annual turnover of the company.  
Since the company has an annual turnover exceeding 500 million EUR and the dynamic legal maximum applies, the size of the company is already reflected in the dynamic legal maximum used to determine the starting amount. As a result, no further adjustment is applied.  
Next, the supervisory authority proceeds to calculate the fine based on the rest of the Guidelines.