ANNUAL REPORTENSURING DATA PROTECTION RIGHTS IN A CHANGING WORLDENSURING DATA 

PROTECTION RIGHTS IN 
A CHANGING WORLD

An Executive Summary of this report, which provides an overview of 

key EDPB activities in 2020, is also available. 

Further details about the EDPB can be found on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

GLOSSARY 

FOREWORD 

9

12

ABOUT THE EUROPEAN 
DATA PROTECTION BOARD: 
MISSION, TASKS AND 
PRINCIPLES 

2.1.  MISSION  
2.2. 
2.3.  GUIDING PRINCIPLES  

TASKS AND DUTIES 

14
15
15
15

1
2
3

3.1. 

3.2. 

2020 – HIGHLIGHTS 
CONTRIBUTION OF THE 
EDPB TO THE EVALUATION 
OF THE GDPR  
ISSUES RELATING TO 
COVID-19 RESPONSES 
3.2.1.  Statement on the processing 

of personal data in the context 
of the COVID-19 outbreak 

3.2.2.  EDPB Letter concerning the 

European Commission’s draft 
Guidance 
on apps supporting the fight 
against the COVID-19 pandemic 

3.2.3.  Guidelines 03/2020 on the 

processing of data concerning 
health for the purpose of 
scientific research in the context 
of the COVID-19 outbreak 

16

16

17

17

17

18

3.2.4.  Guidelines 04/2020 on the use 

of location data and contact 
tracing tools in the context of 
the COVID-19 outbreak 

3.2.5.  Statement on restrictions on 

data 
subject rights in connection to 
the 
state of emergency in Member 
States 

3.2.6.  Statement on the processing of 
personal data in the context of 
reopening of borders following 
the COVID-19 outbreak 

3.2.7.  Statement on the data protection 

impact of the interoperability 
of contract tracing apps 

3.2.8.  EDPB response Letters on 

COVID-related matters  

INTERNATIONAL 
PERSONAL DATA FLOWS 
AFTER THE SCHREMS II 
JUDGMENT 
3.3.1.  Statement on the Court of 

Justice 
of the European Union Judgment 
in Case C-311/18 - Data 
Protection 
Commissioner v Facebook 
Ireland 
and Maximillian Schrems 

3.3. 

3.3.2.  Frequently Asked Questions on 

the judgment of the Court of 
Justice of the European Union in 
Case C-311/18 - Data Protection 
Commissioner v Facebook 
Ireland 
Ltd and Maximillian Schrems 
3.3.3.  Recommendations 01/2020 

on measures that supplement 
transfer tools to ensure 
compliance with the EU level of 
protection of personal data 

18

19

19

20

20

20

21

22

22

3

EDPB Annual Report  20203.4. 

4

4.1. 

4.2. 
4.3. 

5

3.3.4.  Recommendations 02/2020 on 

the 
European Essential Guarantees 
for surveillance measures   

FIRST ART. 65 GDPR 
BINDING DECISION 

2020 - AN OVERVIEW 
FUNCTIONING OF THE 
EDPB: REVISED RULES OF 
PROCEDURE 
THE EDPB SECRETARIAT 
COOPERATION AND 
CONSISTENCY 
4.3.1.  IT communications tool (Internal 

Market Information system)  

EUROPEAN DATA 
PROTECTION BOARD 
ACTIVITIES IN 2020 

(GUIDELINES, 
RECOMMENDATIONS, BEST 
PRACTICES) 
 
5.1.1.  Guidelines 01/2020 on 

processing 
personal data in the context 
of connected vehicles and 
mobility related applications 

5.1.  GENERAL GUIDANCE 

23

24

25

25
25

26

27

28
28

28

29

5.1.2.  Guidelines 02/2020 on Arts. 

46(2)(a) and 46(3)(b) of 
Regulation 2016/679 for 
transfers of personal data 
between EEA and non-EEA public 
authorities and bodies 

5.1.3.  Guidelines 03/2020 on the 

processing of data concerning 
health for the purpose of 
scientific research in the context 
of the COVID-19 outbreak  

5.1.4.  Guidelines 04/2020 on the use 

of location data and contact 
tracing tools in the context of 
the COVID-19 outbreak 

5.1.5.  Guidelines 05/2020 on consent 

under Regulation 2016/679 
5.1.6.  Guidelines 06/2020 on the 

interplay 
with the Second Payments 
Services Directive and the GDPR 

5.1.7.  Guidelines 07/2020 on the 
concepts of controller and 
processor in the GDPR 

5.1.8.  Guidelines 08/2020 on the 

targeting of social media users 
5.1.9.  Guidelines 09/2020 on relevant 
and reasoned objection under 
Regulation 2016/679 

5.1.10. Guidelines 10/2020 on 

restrictions 
under Art. 23 GDPR 

5.1.11. Recommendations 01/2020 on 

measures that supplement 
transfer 
tools to ensure compliance with 
the 
EU level of protection of personal 
data supplementary measures  
5.1.12. Recommendations 02/2020 on 

the 
European Essential Guarantees 
for surveillance measures   

29

30

30

30

30

31

32

32

33

34

34

4

EDPB Annual Report  20205.2. 

5.3. 
5.4. 

5.5. 

5.6. 

5.1.13. Guidelines adopted following 

public consultation   

 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS 
5.2.1.  Opinions on draft accreditation 

requirements for code of conduct 
monitoring bodies 

5.2.2.  Opinions on draft requirements 

for accreditation of a certification 
body 

34
35

36

37

5.2.3.  Opinions on draft decisions 

regarding Binding Corporate Rules   38
38
39
40

5.2.4.  Other Opinions 
BINDING DECISIONS  
CONSISTENCY PROCEDURES  
5.4.1.  EDPB document on the 

procedure 
for the approval of certification 
criteria by the EDPB resulting 
in a common certification, the 
European Data Protection Seal 

5.4.2.  EDPB document on the 

procedure 
for the development of informal 
“Codes of Conduct sessions” 
REGISTER FOR DECISIONS 
TAKEN BY SUPERVISORY 
AUTHORITIES AND COURTS 
ON ISSUES HANDLED 
IN THE CONSISTENCY 
MECHANISM  

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION  
5.6.1.  EDPB Letter concerning the 

European Commission’s draft 
Guidance on apps supporting 
the fight against the COVID-19 
pandemic  

40

41

41

45

45

5.6.2.  Statement on the ePrivacy 

Regulation and the future role of 
Supervisory Authorities and the 
EDPB  

5.7.  OTHER DOCUMENTS 

5.7.1.  Contribution of the EDPB to the 

evaluation of the GDPR  

5.7.2.  Statement on privacy 

implications of mergers 

5.7.3.  Statement on the processing of 
personal data in the context of 
the COVID-19 outbreak 

5.7.4.  Statement on restrictions on 

data subject rights in connection 
to the state of emergency in 
Member States   

5.7.5.  Statement on the processing of 
personal data in the context of 
reopening of borders following 
the COVID-19 outbreak  

5.7.6.  Statement on the data protection 

impact of the interoperability of 
contact tracing apps  

5.7.7.  Statement on the Court of 

Justice of the European Union 
Judgment in Case C-311/18 – 
Data Protection Commissioner 
v Facebook Ireland and 
Maximillian Schrems    

45
46

46

46

46

46

47

47

47

47

5.7.8.  Information note on BCRs for 

Groups of undertakings / 
enterprises 
which have ICO as BCR Lead SA 
5.7.9.  Frequently Asked Questions on 

the judgment of the Court of 
Justice of the European Union in 
Case C-311/18 – Data Protection 
Commissioner v Facebook 
Ireland Ltd and Maximillian Schrems  48

5.7.10. EDPB Document on Coordinated 

Enforcement Framework under 
Regulation 2016/679  

48

5

EDPB Annual Report  20206

6.1.	

SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
54
ACTIVITIES  
IN 2020 
54
CROSS-BORDER	COOPERATION 	 54
6.1.1.  Preliminary procedure to 

identify the Lead and Concerned 
Supervisory Authorities  

6.1.2.  Database regarding cases with a 
  

cross-border component 

6.1.3.  One-Stop-Shop mechanism   
6.1.4.  One-Stop-Shop decisions   
6.1.5.  Mutual assistance 
  
6.1.6.  Joint operations 
6.2.  NATIONAL CASES   

54

55
55
56
68
68
68

6.2.1.  Some relevant national cases 

with exercise of corrective powers   68
SURVEY – BUDGET AND STAFF   82

6.3. 

7
8

8.1. 

COORDINATED 
SUPERVISION COMMITTEE 
OF THE LARGE EU 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
AND OF EU BODIES, 
OFFICES AND AGENCIES  

83

MAIN OBJECTIVES FOR 
2021  
85
2021-2023 STRATEGY                     85

5.7.11. Statement on the protection 

of personal data processed in 
relation with the prevention of 
money laundering and terrorism 
financing  

5.7.12. EDPB Document on Terms of 

Reference of the EDPB Support 
Pool of Experts  

5.7.13. Pre-GDPR Binding Corporate 

Rules overview list  

5.7.14. Information note on data 

transfers under the GDPR to 
the United Kingdom after the 
transition period  

5.7.15. Statement on the end of the 

Brexit transition period  

PLENARY MEETINGS AND 
EXPERT SUBGROUPS  
STAKEHOLDER 
CONSULTATION AND 
TRANSPARENCY 
5.9.1.  Stakeholder events on future 

guidance  

5.9.2.  Public consultations on draft 

guidance  

5.9.3.  Stakeholder survey on adopted 

guidance  

5.9.4.  Transparency and access to 

documents  

5.8. 

5.9. 

5.10.  EXTERNAL 

REPRESENTATION OF THE 
EDPB  
  
5.10.1. Participation of Chair and Deputy 

Chairs in conferences and 
speaking engagements  

5.10.2. Participation of EDPB Staff 
in conferences and speaking 
engagements  

6

48

49

49

49

50

50

50

50

51

51

52

53

53

53

EDPB Annual Report  20209

ANNEXES 

9.1.  GENERAL GUIDANCE 

9.2. 

ADOPTED IN 2020  
CONSISTENCY OPINIONS 
ADOPTED IN 2020  
LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION  

9.3. 
9.4.  OTHER DOCUMENTS  
9.5. 

LIST OF EXPERT 
SUBGROUPS WITH SCOPE 
OF MANDATES 

CONTACT DETAILS  

87

87

88
89
89

91

96

7

EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020

Glossary

Adequacy decision

An implementing act adopted by the European Commission that decides that a non-EU 
country ensures an adequate level of protection of personal data. 

Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) 

Data protection policies adhered to by controller or processors established in the EU for 
transfers of personal data to controllers or processors outside the EU within a group of 
undertakings or enterprises or groups of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity.

Charter of Fundamental Rights of 
the EU  

A legally binding Charter that sets out the civil, political, economic, social and cultural 
rights of EU citizens and residents (including the right to the protection of personal data 
in its Art. 8). 

Concerned Supervisory 
Authorities (CSAs)

A Supervisory Authority concerned by  the  processing  of  personal  data  because:  (a)  
the  controller  or  processor  is established  on  the  territory  of  its  Member  State;  (b) 
data   subjects   residing   in   the   Member   State   are substantially affected by the 
processing; or (c) a complaint has been lodged with that Supervisory Authority.

Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU) 

The highest court in the EU judiciary system, which ensures uniform interpretation and 
application of EU law in EU Member States. It ensures those States and EU institutions 
abide by EU law. 

COVID-19 contact tracing 

Cross-border processing

A process to identify individuals who have been in contact with those infected by disease, 
such as COVID-19.

Either (a) processing of personal data that takes place in the context of the activities of 
establishments in more than one Member State of a controller or processor in the Union 
where the controller or processor is established in more than one Member State; or (b) 
processing of personal data that takes place in the context of the activities of a single 
establishment of a controller or processor in the Union, but which substantially affects or 
is likely to substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State.

9

Data controller

Data minimisation

Data processor

Data Protection Impact 
Assessment (DPIA)

EDPB Annual Report  2020

The natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body that, alone or jointly 
with  others,  determines  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing  of  personal  data; 
where the purposes and means of such processing are determined by EU or Member 
State law, the controller or the specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by 
Union or Member State law.

A principle that means that a data controller should limit the collection of personal data 
to what is directly adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary to accomplish a 
specified purpose of the processing. 

A natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which processes personal 
data on behalf of the controller.

A privacy-related impact assessment aiming to evaluate the processing of personal data, 
including notably its necessity and proportionality, an assessment of the risks for the 
rights and freedom of individuals, and the measures envisaged to address the risks. 

Data Protection Officer (DPO)

An expert on data protection law and practices, who operates independently within an 
organisation to ensure the internal application of data protection.

Data subject

The person whose personal data is  processed.

European Commission

An EU institution that shapes the EU's overall strategy, proposes new EU laws and policies, 
monitors their implementation and manages the EU budget.  

European Economic Area (EEA) 
Member States

EU Member States and Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. 

European Union (EU)

An economic and political union between 27 European countries.

General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR)

An EU Regulation that sets out rules on the rights of data subjects, the duties of data 
controllers and processors processing personal data, international data transfers and the 
powers of Supervisory Authorities.

Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA)

Main establishment 

The  Supervisory  Authority  where  the  “main  establishment”  of  a  data  controller  or 
processor is based, which has the primary responsibility for dealing with a cross-border 
data processing activity and for coordinating any cross-border investigation. 

Either (a) as regards a controller with establishments in more than one Member State, 
the place of its central administration in the Union, unless the decisions on the purposes 
and  means  of  the  processing  of  personal  data  are  taken  in  another  establishment  of 
the  controller  in  the  Union  and  the  latter  establishment  has  the  power  to  have  such 
decisions implemented, in which case the establishment having taken such decisions 
is  to  be  considered  to  be  the  main  establishment;  or  (b)  as  regards  a  processor  with 
establishments in more than one Member State, the place of its central administration in 
the Union, or, if the processor has no central administration in the Union, the establishment 
of the processor in the Union where the main processing activities in the context of the 
activities of an establishment of the processor take place to the extent that the processor 
is subject to specific obligations under the GDPR.

10

One-Stop-Shop mechanism

Personal data

Processing

EDPB Annual Report  2020

A  mechanism  whereby  the  Supervisory  Authority  with  the  “main  establishment”  of  a 
controller  or  processor  in  the  EU  serves  as  the  Lead  Supervisory  Authority  to  ensure 
cooperation between Supervisory Authorities in the case of cross-border processing.

Any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person (‘data subject’); an 
identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular 
by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an 
online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, 
mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person.

Any  operations  or  set  of  operations  which  is  performed  on  personal  data  or  sets  or 
personal  data,  whether  or  not  by  automated  means,  such  as  collection,  recording, 
organisation,  structuring,  storage,  adaptation  or  alteration,  retrieval,  consultation,  use, 
disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or 
combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.

Standard Contractual Clauses 

(SCCs)

A set of contractual clauses that provide adequate safeguards for data transfers from 
the EU or the EEA to third countries or govern the relationship between controller and 
processor.

Supervisory Authority (SA)

An independent public supervisory body that monitors the application of the GDPR and 
other national laws relating to data protection, in order to protect the rights and freedoms 
of natural persons in relation to the processing of personal data. Also known as a Data 
Protection Authority (DPA).

Third country

A country outside the EU or EEA. 

11

Foreword

Aside  from  the  pandemic  and  the  data  protection  issues 
it  raised,  there  were  several  major  developments  in  the 
EU  data  protection  legal  sphere.  The  Court  of  Justice  of 
the  European  Union’s  ruling  in  Schrems  II  had  a  significant 
impact  on  data  exporters  and  more  globally  on  any  entity 
involved in international transfers of personal data. The EDPB 
immediately  issued  an  FAQ  document,  followed  later  by  our 
Recommendations  for  Supplementary  Measures  when  using 
international  transfer  tools  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
EU level of personal data protection, which were subject to a 
public consultation. We received over 200 contributions from 
various stakeholders, showing the keen interest in the ruling 
and our related guidance.  

In  February  2020,  the  EDPB  and  national  Supervisory 
Authorities  (SAs)  contributed  to  the  European  Commission’s 
evaluation  and  review  of  the  GDPR,  as  required  by  Art.  97 
GDPR. Despite challenges, the EDPB is convinced that ongoing 
cooperation between SAs will facilitate a shared approach to 
data  protection  and  establish  consistent  practices.  We  also 
believe it is premature to revise the GDPR at this point in time. 

2020  and  the  COVID-19  pandemic  made  for  a  particularly 
challenging  year.  The  pandemic  and  resultant  lockdowns 
significantly  altered  how  we  live  and  work.  They  also  drew 
attention to the nature of our fundamental rights and interests, 
not least the rights to privacy and data protection. Given the 
increasing presence of data-driven technologies in addressing 
the pandemic and its related challenges, the awareness of data 
protection  rights  among  individuals  and  organisations  has 
never been more critical.  

It is important to note that the 2020 lockdown did not mean 
a  slowdown  of  the  EDPB’s  activities.  On  the  contrary,  the 
EDPB  Secretariat  organised  a  substantially  higher  number 
of  EDPB  meetings  in  response  to  these  circumstances.  The 
EDPB held 172 plenary and expert subgroup meetings and 96 
drafting  team  meetings  between  rapporteurs  drafting  EDPB 
documents.  We  met  more  frequently  (through  our  secured 
video platforms) and tackled a very heavy workload on top of 
what was already in our work programme for 2019 and 2020.  

The EDPB worked quickly to respond to questions of how to 
process personal data in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
We issued guidance on, amongst others, location and contact-
tracing  apps;  processing  health  data  for  scientific  research; 
restrictions on data subject rights in a state of emergency; and 
data processing in the context of reopening borders.  

1212

EDPB Annual Report  2020

Our role includes contributing  to  the  consistent  interpretation  
of  the  GDPR  by  adopting  Guidelines  and  Opinions. In 2020, 
we adopted 10 Guidelines on topics such as the concepts of 
controller and processor; and targeting of social media users, 
as  well  as  three  Guidelines  in  their  final,  post-consultation 
versions.  

to  providing  guidance,  ensuring  consistency 

Next 
in 
enforcement and cooperation between national authorities is 
a key task of the EDPB. In 2020, we issued 32 Opinions under 
the Art. 64 GDPR consistency mechanism in areas with cross-
border  implications.  Importantly,  we  successfully  concluded 
the first dispute resolution procedure on the basis of Art. 65 
GDPR. The EDPB also published its ‘One-Stop-Shop’ decision 
register online, which gives companies real case examples to 
guide their respective privacy project implementations. 

We have recently adopted a new bi-annual work programme, 
which  builds  on  the  EDPB  2021-2023  Strategy.  Some  of 

the  guidance  we  included  in  this  work  programme  for  the 
next two years is aimed at further streamlining cross-border 
enforcement of data protection law.  

All  our  work  was  made  possible  thanks  to  the  ceaseless 
efforts of everyone within the EDPB, in spite of the challenges 
that  came  with  the  COVID-19  pandemic.  We  also  welcomed 
the  increased  input  and  engagement  from  our  stakeholders 
through the seven public consultations we carried out in 2020, 
virtual events, workshops and surveys.  

Since May 2018, and even well before that, we have constantly 
been  trying  to  improve  the  implementation  of  the  GDPR  to 
ensure  that  the  law  achieves  it  intended  results,  namely  an 
equally  high  level  of  data  protection  everywhere  in  the  EEA. 
As we look forward to 2021, we will strive to contribute to a 
common data protection culture that ensures individuals enjoy 
the robust protection of their data protection rights. 

Andrea Jelinek   
Chair of the European Data Protection Board

1313

EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020

 2

About the European Data Protection Board: 

mission, tasks and principles

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is an independent European body, established 
by  the  General  Data  Protection  Regulation  (GDPR),  which  aims  to  ensure  the  consistent 

application of data protection rules across the European Economic Area (EEA).

The  SAs  of  the  EEA  countries  (Iceland,  Liechtenstein  and 
Norway) are also members of the EDPB, although they do not 
hold the right to vote. The EDPB is based in Brussels.

The EDPB has a Secretariat, which is provided by the EDPS. 
A  Memorandum  of  Understanding  determines  the  terms  of 
cooperation between the EDPB and the EDPS.

It achieves this aim by promoting cooperation between national 
Supervisory  Authorities  (SAs)  and  issuing  general,  EEA-wide 
guidance regarding the interpretation and application of data 
protection rules.

The EDPB comprises the Heads of the EU SAs and the European 
Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS). The European Commission 
and - with regard to GDPR-related matters - the European Free 
Trade  Association  Surveillance  Authority  -  have  the  right  to 
participate in the activities and meetings of the EDPB without 
voting rights. 

14

2.1.  MISSION 

The EDPB has adopted a Mission Statement, whereby it aims 
to do the following:

•  Ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  and  the 

Police  and  Criminal  Justice  Data  Protection  Directive 
across the EEA;  

•  Provide general opinions and guidance on European data 

protection laws to ensure the consistent interpretation of 
individuals’ rights and obligations; 

•  Make  binding  decisions  addressed  to  national  SAs  that 
•  Act in accordance with its Rules of Procedure and guiding 

ensure the consistent application of the GDPR;

principles.

2.2. 

TASKS AND DUTIES

The EDPB has the following tasks and duties:

general 

guidance 

protection cases;

in  cross-border  data 

(including  Guidelines, 

Recommendations and Best Practices) to clarify the law;

•  Provide 
•  Adopt  Consistency  Findings 
•  Promote  cooperation  and  the  effective  exchange  of 
•  Advise the European Commission on any issue related to 

information and Best Practices between national SAs;

the protection of personal data and proposed legislation 
in the EEA.

2.3. 

GUIDING PRINCIPLES 

The EDPB actions are based on the following guiding principles:

•  Independence  and 

is  an 
inde¬pendent body, which performs its tasks and exercises 
its powers impartially; 

impartiality.  The  EDPB 

•  Good  governance,  integrity  and  good  administrative 

behaviour.  The  EDPB  acts  in  the  public  interest  as  an 
expert,  trustworthy  and  authoritative  body  in  the  field  of 
data protection, with quality decision-making process¬es 
and sound financial management; 

•  Collegiality and inclusiveness. The EDPB acts collectively 

as a collegiate body pursuant to the GDPR and the Police 
and Criminal Justice Data Protection Directive; 

•  Cooperation. The EDPB promotes cooperation be¬tween 
•  Transparency. The EDPB operates as openly as possible to 

SAs and endeavours to operate by consensus; 

ensure efficacy and accountability to the public. The EDPB 
explains its activities in plain language that is accessible 
to all; 

•  Efficiency  and  modernisation.  The  EDPB  ensures  that 

its  practices  are  as  efficient  and  flex¬ible  as  possible 
to  achieve  the  highest  level  of  cooperation  between  its 
members.  It  achieves  this  by  using  new  technologies  to 
keep working methods up to date, to minimise formalities 
and to provide efficient ad¬ministrative support; 

•  Proactivity. The EDPB anticipates and supports innovative 

to  overcome  digital  challenges 

to  data 
solutions 
pro¬tection.  The  EDPB  encourages  close  collaboration 
with stakeholders (whether members, observers, staff or 
invited experts), so that their needs and aspira¬tions can 
be fully considered in its work. 

15

EDPB Annual Report  20203
3

2020 – Highlights

number  of  challenges  still  remain.  For  example,  insufficient 
resources for SAs are still a concern, as are inconsistencies 
in national procedures that have an impact on the cooperation 
mechanism between SAs. 

Despite these challenges, the EDPB is convinced that ongoing 
cooperation  between  SAs  will  facilitate  a  common  data 
protection culture and establish consistent practices. 

Furthermore,  the  EDPB  believes  it  is  premature  to  revise  the 
GDPR.

3.1. 

CONTRIBUTION  OF  THE  EDPB  TO 
THE EVALUATION OF THE GDPR 

In February 2020, the EDPB and national Supervisory Authorities 
(SAs)  contributed  to  the  European  Commission’s  evaluation 
and review of the GDPR, as required by Art. 97 GDPR. 

The  EDPB  considers  that  the  GDPR  has  strengthened  data 
protection  as  a  fundamental  right  and  harmonised  the 
interpretation of data protection principles. Data subject rights 
have been reinforced and data subjects are increasingly aware 
of  the  modalities  to  exercise  their  data  protection  rights. 
The  GDPR  also  contributes  to  an  increased  global  visibility 
of  the  EU  legal  framework  and  is  being  considered  a  role 
model outside of the EU. The EDPB believes that the GDPR’s 
application  have  been  successful,  but  acknowledges  that  a 

16

EDPB Annual Report  20203.2. 

ISSUES  RELATING  TO  COVID-19 
RESPONSES

During  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  EEA  Member  States  began 
taking measures to monitor, contain and mitigate the spread of 
the virus. Many of these measures involved the processing of 
personal data, such as contact-tracing apps, the use of location 
data or the processing of health data for research purposes. As 
such, the EDPB offered guidance on how to process personal 
data in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic.

which are proportional under exceptional circumstances and 
need to be subject to enhanced scrutiny to ensure the respect 
of data protection principles. The data minimisation principle 
should guide employers in the request and disclosure of health 
information  in  the  context  of  COVID-19,  meaning  the  least 
possible information should be disclosed to achieve a stated 
purpose.

Adopted: 20 March 2020

3.2.1.  Statement 

on 

of  personal  data 
of the COVID-19 outbreak

the 
processing 
in  the  context 

3.2.2.  EDPB Letter concerning the European 
Guidance 
the  fight 

Commission’s 
on  apps 
against the COVID-19 pandemic

draft 
supporting 

The  EDPB  emphasises  that  respecting  data  protection  rules 
does not hinder the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Even 
in exceptional times, controllers and processors must ensure 
the protection of personal data.

The GDPR allows controllers to rely on several legal grounds 
for  lawfulness  of  processing  and  enables  competent  public 
authorities and employers to lawfully process personal data in 
the context of a pandemic, in accordance with national law and 
the conditions set therein. 

All measures implemented to manage the emergency should 
consider  data  protection  principles, 
including  purpose 
limitation, transparency, integrity and confidentiality. 

When it comes to the use of mobile location data, the EDPB 
stresses  that  public  authorities  should  first  seek  to  process 
anonymous data, to which the GDPR does not apply. When this is 
not possible, national legislative measures safeguarding public 
security  can  be  enacted  by  Member  States,  putting  in  place 
adequate safeguards (ePrivacy Directive). The proportionality 
principle  should  also  guide  public  authorities  in  the  use  of 
mobile location data. This foregrounds anonymous solutions 
over intrusive measures, such as the “tracking” of individuals, 

In its draft Guidance on apps supporting the fight against the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the European Commission proposed the 
development  of  a  pan-European  and  coordinated  approach 
in  the  use  of  such  tools. The  EDPB  welcomes  this  initiative, 
recognising that no one-size-fits-all solution applies. SAs must 
be  consulted  during  the  elaboration  and  implementation  of 
these  measures  to  ensure  that  personal  data  is  processed 
lawfully and respects individuals’ rights.

Addressing  specifically  the  use  of  apps  for  contact-tracing 
and  warning  individuals,  the  EDPB  strongly  supports  the 
European  Commission’s  proposal  for  the  voluntary  adoption 
of  such  apps  to  foster  individual  trust.  This  does  not  mean 
that  personal  data  processing  in  this  context  must  rely  on 
an individual’s consent, since other legal bases are available 
to  public  authorities.  Contact-tracing  apps  should  be  able  to 
discover events (i.e. contacts with COVID-19-positive people) 
without requiring location tracking of individual users. Both a 
so-called centralised and a so-called decentralised approach 
could be possible, provided that adequate security measures 
are in place. 

17

EDPB Annual Report  20203.2.4.  Guidelines  04/2020  on 
and 

location  data 

of 
tracing 
the COVID-19 outbreak

tools 

in 

the  use 
contact 
the  context  of 

The  EDPB  believes  that  when  processing  personal  data  is 
necessary for implementing data-driven solutions in response 
to  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  data  protection  is  indispensable 
to  build  trust,  create  the  conditions  for  social  acceptability, 
and guarantee the effectiveness of these solutions. The EDPB 
clarifies the conditions and principles for the proportionate use 
of the following:

•  Location  data.  The  ePrivacy  Directive  contains  specific 

rules  allowing  for  the  collection  of  location  data  from 
both electronic communication providers and the terminal 
equipment.  Preference  should  be  given  to  processing 
anonymised location data;

•  Contact-tracing  apps.  The  development  of  such  tools 

should give careful consideration to the principle of data 
minimisation and data protection by design and by default, 
for example by collecting only relevant information when 
absolutely necessary. Data broadcasted by the apps must 
only include some unique and pseudonymous identifiers, 
generated by and specific to the application.

The  EDPB  provides  non-exhaustive  recommendations  and 
obligations to designers and implementers of contact-tracing 
apps  to  guarantee  the  protection  of  personal  data  from  the 
early design stage. 

Adopted: 21 April 2020

Fully automated processes should be avoided through the strict 
supervision of qualified personnel, limiting the occurrence of 
false positives and negatives, and forms of stigmatisation.

Adopted: 14 April 2020

3.2.3.  Guidelines 

03/2020 
processing  of  data 
health 
the 
scientific  research 
of the COVID-19 outbreak

on 
the 
concerning 
of 
in  the  context 

purpose 

for 

The GDPR’s provisions that allow the processing of personal 
data for the purpose of scientific research are applicable also 
in  the  context  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic.  The  Guidelines 
address  urgent  legal  questions  on  the  processing  of  health 
data  for  scientific  research  in  the  context  of  the  pandemic. 
They address the following issues: 

•  Legal basis. Researchers should be aware that if explicit 

consent  is  used  as  the  lawful  basis  for  processing,  all 
the conditions in Arts. 4(11), 6(1)(a), 7 and 9(2)(a) GDPR 
must be fulfilled. National legislators may enact specific 
laws to enable the processing of health data for scientific 
research purposes, pursuant to Arts. 6(1)(e) or (f) GDPR in 
combination with Arts. 9(2)(i) or (j) GDPR;

•  Data  protection  principles.  Considering  the  processing 

risks  in  the  context  of  the  COVID-19  outbreak,  strong 
emphasis  must  be  placed  on 
integrity  and 
confidentiality of the data, the security of the processing, 
and the appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms 
of the data subject. It should be assessed whether a Data 
Protection Impact Assessment must be carried out;

•  Data  subject  rights.  Exceptional  situations,  such  as 

the  COVID-19  outbreak,  do  not  suspend  or  restrict  the 
possibility  for  data  subjects  to  exercise  their  rights. The 
national  legislator  may  allow  restrictions  to  the  data 
subject rights only in so far as it is strictly necessary.

the 

Adopted: 21 April 2020

18

EDPB Annual Report  20203.2.5.  Statement  on  restrictions  on  data 
subject  rights  in  connection  to  the 
state of emergency in Member States

When  EEA  Member  States  enter  a  state  of  emergency,  such 
as  the  one  brought  on  by  the  COVID-19  outbreak,  the  GDPR 
remains  applicable  and  allows  for  efficient  emergency 
response while protecting fundamental rights and freedoms. 

Even  in  these  exceptional  times, the  protection  of  personal  
data   must    be  upheld in all emergency  measures,  including 
restrictions adopted at a national level. Art. 23 GDPR allows 
national  legislators  to  restrict  under  specific  circumstances 
the  scope  of  some  of  the  obligations  and  rights  provided  in 
the  GDPR,  as  long  as  the  restriction  respects  the  essence 
of fundamental rights and freedoms and is a necessary and 
proportionate measure in a democratic society to safeguard, 
inter alia, important objectives of general public interest.

Any restriction on a right must respect the essence of that right 
and thus cannot be as intrusive as to void fundamental rights 
of their basic content. 

Further, restrictions need to be introduced by way of a legislative 
measure,  as  any  limitation  on  the  exercise  of  the  rights  and 
freedoms recognised by the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights 
must be “provided for by law”. In  particular, the domestic law 
must  be  sufficiently  clear,  and  give  an  adequate  indication 
of  the  circumstances  in  and  conditions  under  which  data 
controllers are empowered to resort to any such restrictions. 

Legislative  measures  that  seek  to  restrict  the  scope  of  data 
subject  rights  must  be  foreseeable  to  the  people  subject 
to  them,  including  with  regard  to  their  duration  in  time.  The 
restrictions need to  genuinely pursue an important objective 
of general public interest of the EU or a Member State, such 
as public health. Data subject rights can be restricted, but not 
denied.  

All restrictions on data subject rights must apply only in so far 
as it is strictly necessary and proportionate to safeguard the 
general  public  interest  objective. The  restrictions  need  to  be 
limited in scope and in time, and cannot suspend or postpone 
the  application  of  data  subject  rights  and  the  obligations  of 
data controllers and processors without any clear limitation in 
time, as this would equate to a de facto blanket suspension of 
those rights.

National  authorities  contemplating  restrictions  under  Art.  23 
GDPR should consult national SAs in due time. 

Adopted: 2 June 2020

3.2.6.  Statement  on 
personal  data 
reopening  of  borders 
the COVID-19 outbreak

the  processing  of 
in  the  context  of 
following 

During  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  many  EEA  Member  States 
placed restrictions on freedom of movement within the internal 
market and Schengen area to mitigate the spread of the virus. 
On 15 June 2020, some Member States began to progressively 
lift  these  restrictions  and  re-open  borders.  In  part,  this  was 
made possible by processing personal data at border crossings 
by,  for  example,  administering  COVID-19  tests  or  requesting 
health certificates.

The  EDPB  urges  Member  States  to  adopt  a  standardised 
approach to the processing of personal data in this context, 
emphasising 
that  processing  must  be  necessary  and 
proportionate, and the measures should be based on scientific 
evidence.  The  EDPB  highlights  particular  data  protection 
principles  to  which  Member  States  should  pay  special 
attention. It stresses the importance of prior consultation with 
competent SAs when Member States process personal data in 
this context. 

Adopted: 16 June 2020

19

EDPB Annual Report  20203.2.7.  Statement  on  the  data  protection 
interoperability 

the 

impact 
of contract tracing apps

of 

The EDPB maintains that, without a common EEA approach in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic,  at least an interoperable 
framework should be put in place. The EDPB elaborates on the 
impact  on  the  right  to  data  protection  that  an  interoperable 
implementation of contract tracing applications can entail by 
focusing on seven key areas:

•  Transparency. Information on any additional personal data 

processing must be provided in clear and plain language 
to the data subject;

•  Legal  basis.  Different  legal  bases  used  by  different 

data  controllers  might  require  implementing  additional 
measures to safeguard data subject rights related to the 
legal basis;

•  Controllership. Any operations that ensure interoperability 

should  be  considered  separate  to  prior  or  subsequent 
processing for which the parties are individual controllers 
or joint controllers;

•  Data  subject  rights.  The  exercise  of  rights  should  not 
•  Data  retention  and  minimisation.  Common  levels  of 

become more cumbersome for the data subjects;

data  minimisation  and  data  retention  periods  should  be 
considered;

•  Information  security.  Providers  should  consider  the 

information  security  risk  caused  by  the 

additional 
additional processing;

•  Data accuracy. Measures should be put in place to ensure 

data accuracy is maintained in the interoperable system.

Adopted: 16 June 2020

20

3.2.8.  EDPB  response  Letters  on  COVID-

related matters 

During the COVID-19 pandemic, the EDPB responded to letters 
from  different  stakeholders  asking  for  further  clarifications 
on COVID-19-related matters. The EDPB received letters from 
the  following  parties:  public  officials  (including  Members  of 
the European Parliament Ďuriš Nicholsonová and Sophie in ‘t 
Veld,  and  the  United  States  Mission  to  the  European  Union); 
civil liberties advocacy organisations (Civil Liberties Union for 
Europe, Access Now and the Hungarian Civil Liberties Union); 
and private companies (Amazon EU Sarl). 

In  its  responses,  the  EDPB  reiterated  that  data  protection 
legislation  already  takes 
into  account  data  processing 
operations  that  are  necessary  to  contribute  to  the  fight 
against the pandemic, and that the data protection principles 
need always to be upheld. Where relevant, the EDPB referred 
to  published  or  future  Guidelines  addressing  the  matters  in 
question or encouraged consultation with national SAs.

Adopted:  24  April  2020,  19  May  2020,  3  June  2020,  17  July 
2020 

3.3. 

INTERNATIONAL  PERSONAL  DATA 
FLOWS  AFTER  THE  SCHREMS  II 
JUDGMENT

On 16 July 2020, the Court of Justice of the EU (CJEU) released 
its judgment in Case C-311/18 (Schrems II). The CJEU examined 
two mechanisms that allow personal data transfers from the 
EEA to non-EEA countries (third countries), namely, the EU-U.S. 
Privacy Shield and Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs). The 
CJEU  invalidated  the  adequacy  decision  underlying  the  EU-
U.S.  Privacy  Shield,  thereby  rendering  it  invalid  as  a  transfer 
mechanism.  It  also  ruled  that  the  European  Commission’s 
Decision 2010/87 on SCCs for the transfer of personal data to 
third country processors is valid, so SCCs may still be used to 

EDPB Annual Report  2020The  judgment  recalls  and  the  EDPB  underlines  that  the 
exporter and the importer need to comply with their obligations 
included  in  the  SCCs.  If  they  do  not  or  cannot  comply  with 
these obligations, the exporter must suspend the transfer or 
terminate the agreement. 

The EDPB notes that competent SAs have the duty to suspend 
or prohibit a personal data transfer to a third country pursuant 
to SCCs if they are not or cannot be complied with in that third 
country, and the protection of the data transferred cannot be 
ensured  by  other  means,  in  particular  where  the  exporter  or 
importer has not already itself suspended or put an end to the 
transfer. 

The  EDPB  recalls  its  position  on  the  use  of  the  derogations 
under Art. 49 GDPR, as set out in its Guidelines 02/2018, which 
must be applied on a case-by-case basis. 

The EDPB will keep assessing the judgment and will continue 
providing  guidance  on    its  consequences  for  personal  data 
transfers to countries outside the EEA. . 

Adopted: 17 July 2020

enable international data transfers. This is upon the condition 
that  the  exporter  (if  needed,  with  the  help  of  the  importer), 
assesses, prior to the transfer, the level of protection afforded 
in the context of such transfers, taking into consideration both 
the SCCs and the relevant aspects of the legal system of the 
importer’s country, as regards any access to the data by that 
third country’s public authorities. The factors to be considered 
for  this  assessment  are  those  set  out,  in  a  non-exhaustive 
manner, in Art. 45(2) GDPR.

The  judgment  has  wide-ranging  implications  for  EEA-based 
entities that use these mechanisms to enable personal data 
transfers to the U.S. and other third countries.

3.3.1.  Statement  on  the  Court  of  Justice 
of  the  European  Union  Judgment 
in  Case  C-311/18  -  Data  Protection 
Commissioner  v  Facebook  Ireland 
and Maximillian Schrems

The EDPB believes that the CJEU’s judgment in Case C-311/18 
(Schrems II) highlights the importance of the fundamental right 
to privacy in the context of the transfer of personal data to third 
countries  and  the  risk  for  data  subjects  caused  by  possible 
indiscriminate access by a third country’s public authorities to 
the  personal  data  transferred.  Standard  Contractual  Clauses 
(SCCs) must maintain a level of protection in the third country 
that is essentially equivalent to that in the EEA. 

The  EDPB  notes  that  the  judgment  emphasises  that  the 
assessment  of  whether  the  SCCs  can  ensure  in  practice  for 
the data transferred to a third country an essentially equivalent 
level of protection is primarily the responsibility of exporters 
and importers. If the SCCs by themselves cannot guarantee an 
essentially equivalent level of protection in the third country, the 
exporter will need to consider putting in place supplementary 
measures that fill the protection gap.  

21

EDPB Annual Report  2020judgment  of 

3.3.2.  Frequently  Asked  Questions  on 
the 
the  Court  of 
Justice  of  the  European  Union  in 
Case  C-311/18  -  Data  Protection 
Commissioner  v  Facebook  Ireland 
Ltd and Maximillian Schrems

Following  the  CJEU’s  judgment  in  Case  C-311/18  (Schrems 
II),  the  EDPB  provided  clarifications  on  the  judgment  in  a 
document addressing 12 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs). 

These answers stipulated that: 

•  There is no grace period for EEA organisations relying on 
•  As a consequence, any personal data transfers from the 

the Privacy Shield to transfer personal data to the U.S.;

EEA to the U.S. are illegal if they are based on the Privacy 
Shield;

•  The  threshold  set  by  the  CJEU  for  transfers  to  the  U.S. 
•  Therefore, the CJEU’s approach applies to any international 

applies for any third country;

data  transfers  relying  on  SCCs  and,  by  extension,  those 
relying on Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) or on other Art. 
46 GDPR transfer mechanisms;

•  Whether or not personal data may be transferred to a third 

country on the basis of an Art. 46 GDPR transfer mechanism 
depends  on  the  outcome  of  the  prior  assessment  to  be 
carried out by the exporter, taking into account the specific 
circumstances  of  the  transfers,  and  the  supplementary 
measures  possibly  identified.  The  transfer  mechanism 
used  and  the  supplementary  measures  would  have  to 
ensure that the laws of the third country of destination do 
not impinge on the adequate level of protection guaranteed 
by such mechanisms and supplementary measures;

•  It is still possible to transfer personal data from the EEA to 

the U.S. on the basis of derogations under Art. 49 GDPR, 
provided the conditions set forth in this provision apply. On 
this provision, the EDPB refers to its Guidelines 02/2018.

22

SAs will cooperate within the EDPB to ensure consistency, in 
particular if transfers to third countries must be prohibited. 

Adopted: 23 July 2020

3.3.3.  Recommendations 

that 

on  measures 
transfer 
compliance  with  the  EU 
protection of personal data

tools 

to 

01/2020 
supplement 
ensure 
level  of 

The CJEU mentioned in its judgment in Case C-311/18 (Schrems 
II)  the  possibility  for  exporters  of  adopting  supplementary 
measures  to  bring  the  level  of  protection  of  personal  data 
transferred  to  countries  outside  the  EEA  up  to  the  standard 
of  essential  equivalence  with  the  EU  level,  where  Art.  46 
GDPR  transfer  tools  cannot  guarantee  it  by  themselves. The 
EDPB  issued  Recommendations  that  provide  data  exporters 
with  a  series  of  six  steps  to  follow  to  apply  the  principle 
of  accountability  to  data  transfers,  and  some  examples  of 
supplementary measures.

These steps addressed to data exporters are as follows:

•  Step 1: Data exporters should know their transfers in order 

to be fully aware of the destination of the personal data 
processing  and  verify  that  personal  data  is  adequate, 
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the 
purpose for which it is transferred.

•  Step  2:  Data  exporters  should 

identify  the  transfer 
tools  under  Chapter  V  GDPR,  which  they    are  relying 
on.  Relying  on  some  tools,  such  as  a  valid  adequacy 
decision  covering  the  third  country,  will  be  enough  to 
proceed with the transfer without taking any further steps, 
other  than  monitoring  that  the  decision  remains  valid. 
 
 

EDPB Annual Report  2020•  Step  3:  Data  exporters  should  assess  the  laws  and/or 

practices of the third country to determine if these could 
impinge on the effectiveness of the safeguards contained 
in the transfer tools the data exporter is relying on. This 
assessment should be primarily focused on third country 
legislation  relevant  to  the  transfer  and  the  transfer  tool 
relied on that could undermine its level of protection and 
other  objective  factors.  The  EDPB  Recommendations 
02/2020  on  the  European  Essential  Guarantees  will  be 
relevant  in  this  context  to  evaluate  the  third  country 
legislation on public authorities’ access for the purpose of 
surveillance.

•  Step  4:  Data  exporters  should 

identify  and  adopt 
supplementary  measures,  such  as  various  technical, 
contractual and organisational measures to bring the level 
of protection of the data transferred up to the EU standard 
of  essential  equivalence.    The  EDPB  Recommendations 
01/2020  contain  in  their  Annex  a  non-exhaustive  list  of 
examples  of  supplementary  measures  with  some  of 
the  conditions  they  would  require  to  be  effective.  Data 
exporters  must  avoid,  suspend  or  terminate  the  transfer 
to  avoid  compromising  the  level  of  protection  of  the 
personal data in those cases where they find no suitable 
supplementary  measures.  Data  exporters  should  also 
conduct the assessment with due diligence and document 
it. 

•  Step 5: Where required, data exporters should take formal 
•  Step  6:  Data  exporters  should  re-evaluate  the  level  of 

procedural steps, such as consulting competent SAs.

protection  afforded  to  personal  data  at  appropriate 
intervals, in accordance with the principle of accountability.

Adopted: 10 November 2020

3.3.4.  Recommendations  02/2020  on  the 
Guarantees 

Essential 

European 
for surveillance measures  

In  light  of  the  CJEU’s  judgment  in  Case  C-311/18  (Schrems 
II), the EDPB updated the Recommendations on the European 
Essential Guarantees (EEG) for surveillance measures. 

The Recommendations are based on the jurisprudence of the 
CJEU and the European Court of Human Rights. The case law 
from  these  Courts  reasserts  that  public  authorities’  access, 
retention and further use of personal data through surveillance 
measures  must  be  limited  to  what  is  strictly  necessary  and 
proportionate in a democratic society.

The Recommendations describe four EEG. The EEG are the core 
elements to be found when assessing the level of interference 
with the fundamental rights to privacy and data protection of 
the surveillance measures conducted by public authorities in 
third countries. The EEG are also part of the assessment that 
data exporters need to conduct to determine if a third country 
provides  a  level  of  protection  essentially  equivalent  to  that 
guaranteed within the EEA. 

The EEG as updated by the Recommendations are as follows:

accessible rules;

•  Processing  should  be  based  on  clear,  precise  and 
•  Necessity and proportionality with regard to the legitimate 
•  An independent oversight mechanism should exist;
•  Effective remedies need to be available to the individual. 

objectives pursued need to be demonstrated;

These include providing data subjects with the possibility 
of  bringing  legal  action  before  an  independent  and 
impartial court or body to have access to their personal 
data or to obtain the rectification or erasure of such data; 

•  A  notification  to  the  individual  whose  personal  data  has 

been collected or analysed must occur only to the extent 
that and as soon as it no longer jeopardises the tasks of 
public authorities.

23

EDPB Annual Report  2020The EEG should be assessed on an overall basis, as they are 
closely interlinked. These guarantees require a certain degree 
of interpretation, especially since the third country legislation 
does not have to be identical to the EU legal framework.

The assessment of third country surveillance measures may 
lead to one of two conclusions: 

•  The third country legislation at issue does not ensure the 

EEG  requirements  and  thus  does  not  provide  a  level  of 
protection essentially equivalent to that guaranteed within 
the EEA; or 

•  The third country legislation at issue satisfies the EEGs.

Adopted: 10 November 2020

3.4. 

FIRST  ART.  65  GDPR  BINDING 
DECISION

The EDPB adopted its first dispute resolution decision on the 
basis  of  Art.  65  GDPR.  The  binding  decision  addressed  the 
dispute that arose after the Irish SA, acting as Lead SA, issued 
a draft decision regarding Twitter International Company and 
the  subsequent  relevant  and  reasoned  objections  expressed 
by  a  number  of  Concerned  SAs.  Section  5.3  of  this  Report 
further elaborates upon this decision.

Adopted: 9 November 2020

24

EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020

4
4

2020 - An overview

4.1. 

FUNCTIONING  OF  THE  EDPB: 
REVISED RULES OF PROCEDURE

4.2. 

THE EDPB SECRETARIAT

During  its  first  plenary  meeting  on  25  May  2018,  the  EDPB 
adopted its Rules of Procedure (RoP), which outline the EDPB’s 
primary operational rules, including: 

•  The EDPB’s guiding principles; 
•  The EDPB’s organisational framework; 
•  The cooperation between EDPB Members; 
•  The election of the Chair and Deputy Chair of the EDPB; 
•  The EDPB’s working methods. 

In  January  2020,  the  EDPB  adopted  revisions  to  Arts.  10(1), 
10(2)  and  10(5)  RoP  and  in  October  2020,  it  adopted  an 
amendment to Art. 11(2) RoP.

The EDPB Secretariat, which is provided by the European Data 
Protection Supervisor (EDPS), offers analytical, administrative 
and logistical support to the EDPB. The EDPB Secretariat is in 
charge of drafting EDPB documents, providing IT solutions to 
ensure transparent communications between all the European 
national Supervisory Authorities (SAs), handling EDPB media 
relations, as well as organising all EDPB meetings.  

Although  staff  at  the  EDPB  Secretariat  are  employed  by  the 
EDPS,  staff  members  only  work  under  the  instructions  of 
the  Chair  of  the  EDPB.  A  Memorandum  of  Understanding 
establishes the terms of cooperation between the EDPB and 
the EDPS.

25

In 2020, due to limitations brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the EDPB Secretariat implemented novel measures to improve 
working  conditions  amidst  unprecedented  circumstances. 
These measures included: employing new videoconferencing 
tools; holding more frequent meetings; and implementing new 
initiatives to keep the EDPB Members connected, for example 
the addition of extra Jabber accounts and a new Wiki platform. 

In light of these circumstances, the EDPB Secretariat organised 
a substantially increased number of EDPB meetings in 2020. 
The  EDPB  held  172  meetings,  including  plenary  meetings 
and  expert  subgroup  meetings,  where  ordinarily  they  would 
hold about 100 meetings. Notably, the EDPB held 27 plenary 
meetings, compared to 11 in previous years. 

The  EDPB  Secretariat  also  led  the  drafting  of  over  60%  of 
the  Guidelines,  Opinions,  Recommendations  and  Statements 
adopted by the EDPB in 2020.

The  EDPB  designated  a  DPO  in  accordance  with  Art.  43 
Regulation  2018/1725.  The  DPO’s  position  and  tasks  are 
defined in Arts. 44 and 45 of said Regulation, and are further 
detailed in the EDPB DPO Implementing Rules.

4.3. 

COOPERATION AND CONSISTENCY

As  stated  in  the  GDPR,  the  SAs  of  EEA  Member  States 
cooperate closely to ensure that people’s data protection rights 
are  protected  consistently  across  the  EEA. They  assist  each 
other  and  coordinate  their  decision-making  in  cross-border 
data protection cases.

Through  the  so-called  consistency  mechanism,  the  EDPB 
issues  Consistency  Findings,  comprising  Opinions  and 
Decisions  (outlined  in  Chapter  5  of  this  Report),  to  clarify 
fundamental provisions of the GDPR and to ensure consistency 
in its application among SAs. 

In 2020, the EDPB issued 32 Opinions under Art. 64 GDPR. Most 
of  these  Opinions  concern  draft  accreditation  requirements 
for a code of conduct monitoring body or a certification body, 
as  well  as  Controller  Binding  Corporate  Rules  for  various 
companies. 

In November 2020, the EDPB adopted its first dispute resolution 
decision  on  the  basis  of  Art.  65  GDPR  to  address  a  dispute 
that arose after the Irish SA, acting as Lead SA, issued a draft 
decision  regarding  Twitter  International  Company  and  the 
subsequent relevant and reasoned objections expressed by a 
number of Concerned SAs.

The  EDPB  also  published  a  register  of  decisions  taken  by 
national  SAs  in  line  with  the  One-Stop-Shop  cooperation 
procedure (Art. 60 GDPR) on its website.

In  November  2020,  the  EDPB  adopted  a  document  on  the 
procedure for the development of informal “Codes of Conduct 
sessions”, in which it proposes a format for the Codes sessions. 
The document further elaborates on the role of SAs, and their 
interaction with both the competent SAs and the Code owners, 
as well as on the role of the EDPB Secretariat.

increasing  attention  placed  on 

the  cooperation 
With 
mechanism outlined in the GDPR, the EDPB in October 2020 
issued Guidelines to establish a common understanding of the 
notion of a “relevant and reasoned” objection and to address 
any unfamiliarity surrounding its interpretation. 

In  October  2020,  the  EDPB  released  a  document  on  the 
Coordinated Enforcement Framework (CEF), which provides a 
structure  for  coordinating  recurring  annual  activities  by  SAs. 
The main objective of the CEF is to facilitate joint actions in a 
flexible but coordinated manner, ranging from joint awareness 
raising and information gathering to enforcement sweeps and 
joint investigations. 

26

EDPB Annual Report  2020As part of its 2021-2023 Strategy, the EDPB decided to establish 
a Support Pool of Experts (SPE) on the basis of a pilot project. 
The  goal  is  to  provide  material  support  to  EDPB  Members 
in the form of expertise that is useful for investigations and 
enforcement  activities,  and  to  enhance  cooperation  and 
solidarity between EDPB Members by sharing, reinforcing and 
complementing strengths and addressing operational needs. 
In December 2020, the EDPB adopted a document on the terms 
of reference of the SPE.

In  July  2020,  the  EDPB  adopted  an  information  note  with 
regard  to  arrangements  to  be  made  by  BCR  holders  with 
the  United  Kingdom  SA  (UK  SA)  as  the  competent  SA  (BCR 
Lead SAs). In light of Brexit, BCR Lead SAs need to make all 
organisational arrangements to establish a new BCR Lead in 
the EEA. In December 2020, the EDPB issued a statement on 
the end of the Brexit transition period in which it describes the 
main implications of the end of this period for data controllers 
and processors. In particular, the EDPB underlines the issue of 
data transfers to a third country as well as the consequences 
in  the  area  of  regulatory  oversight  and  the  One-Stop-Shop 
mechanism. The Brexit transition period, during which the UK 
SA was still involved in the EDPB’s administrative cooperation, 
expired at the end of 2020. Additionally, the EDPB adopted an 
information note on data transfers under the GDPR after the 
Brexit transition period ends.

4.3.1. 

IT  communications 
tool 
Market Information system) 

(Internal 

The EDPB promotes the cooperation between SAs by providing 
a robust IT system. Since 25 May 2018, SAs have been using 
the  Internal  Market  Information  (IMI)  system  to  exchange 
information  necessary  for 
the  GDPR  cooperation  and 
consistency mechanism in a standardised and secured way. 

The  European  Commission’s  Directorate  General  for  Internal 
Market,  Industry,  Entrepreneurship  and  SMEs  (DG  GROW) 
developed the IMI system. In the context of the EDPB, it was 
adapted in close cooperation with the EDPB Secretariat and SAs 
to cater to the needs of the GDPR. Since its implementation, the 
IMI system has proven to be an asset for SAs, which continue 
to use and access the system daily. 

In 2020, SAs registered 628 cases in the IMI system.1 They also 
initiated a number of procedures in the same period, described 
below: 

procedures;

•  Identification  of  the  Lead  SA  and  Concerned  SAs:  742 
•  Mutual  Assistance  Procedures:  246  formal  procedures 
•  One-Stop-Shop  mechanism  –  draft  decisions  and  final 

and 2,258 informal procedures;

decisions: 203 draft decisions, from which 93 resulted in 
final decisions. 

1. A case entry refers to an entry in the IMI system that allows 
the  management  of  cooperation  or  consistency  procedures 
from  beginning  to  end.  It  is  a  central  point  where  SAs  can 
share and find information on a specific issue to facilitate the 
retrieval of information and the consistent application of the 
GDPR. 

A  case  entry  may  consist  of  the  management  of  multiple 
procedures (e.g. an Art. 60 GDPR procedure or an Art. 65 GDPR 
procedure in case of disagreement) or just a single one related 
to  a  case  register  entry.  Multiple  complaints  on  the  same 
subject relating to the same processing can be bundled in one 
single case entry.

27

EDPB Annual Report  20205

European Data Protection Board

Activities in 2020

To ensure the consistent application of the GDPR across the 
EEA,  the  EDPB  issues  general  guidance  to  clarify  European 
data protection laws. 

5.1. 

GENERAL GUIDANCE (GUIDELINES, 
RECOMMENDATIONS, BEST 
PRACTICES) 

This  guidance  provides  the  public  and  stakeholders  with  a 
consistent  interpretation  of  their  rights  and  obligations,  and 
ensures  that  national  Supervisory  Authorities  (SAs)  have  a 
benchmark for applying and enforcing the GDPR. 

The  EDPB  is  also  empowered  to  issue  Opinions  or  Binding 
Decisions to guarantee the consistent application of the GDPR 
by SAs. Throughout 2020, the EDPB issued multiple guidance 
and consistency documents, as summarised below. 

the  EDPB  adopted  several  Guidelines  and 
In  2020, 
Recommendations  on  the  data  protection  requirements 
pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic (see Section 3.2 of this 
Report),  new  technologies,  personal  data  transfers  and  the 
meaning of specific terms in the GDPR. 

These  Guidelines  and  Recommendations  are  summarised 
below.

28

EDPB Annual Report  20205.1.1.  Guidelines  01/2020  on  processing 
context 
and 

personal  data 
of 
connected 
mobility related applications

vehicles 

the 

in 

As they move into the mainstream, connected vehicles have 
become a significant subject for regulators, particularly as they 
require personal data processing within a complex ecosystem. 

The EDPB Guidelines aim to clarify the key privacy and data 
protection  risks,  including  the  security  of  personal  data, 
ensuring full control over processing, and the appropriate legal 
basis for further processing and how GDPR-compliant consent 
should be collected in cases of multiple processing.  

In  order  to  mitigate  the  risks  to  data  subjects,  the  EDPB 
identifies three categories  of  personal data requiring  special 
attention:

•  Location  data,  which,  due  to  its  sensitive  nature,  should 

not be collected except if doing so is absolutely necessary 
for the purpose of processing;

encrypted form; 

•  Biometric  data,  which  should  be  stored  locally  and  in 
•  Data revealing criminal offences and other infractions, the 

processing of which is subject to the safeguards contained 
in Art. 10 GDPR. 

The EDPB also highlights the interplay between the GDPR and 
the ePrivacy Directive, noting that the connected vehicle and 
any  device  connected  to  it  should  be  considered  “terminal 
equipment” for the purposes of Art. 5(3) ePrivacy Directive. 

Adopted: 28 January 2020

5.1.2.  Guidelines 02/2020 on Arts. 46(2)(a) 
and 46(3)(b) of Regulation 2016/679 
for 
transfers  of  personal  data 
between  EEA  and  non-EEA  public 
authorities and bodies

In its Guidelines, the EDPB provides guidance on the transfers 
of personal data from EEA public bodies to public bodies in third 
countries, or to international organisations, for the purpose of 
various administrative cooperation endeavours that fall within 
the scope of the GDPR. 

The  EDPB  outlines  general  recommendations  for  additional 
appropriate safeguards to be adopted by public bodies for the 
transfer of personal data and notes the core data protection 
principles that are to be ensured by the parties to a transfer. 
Public  bodies  may  implement  appropriate  safeguards  either 
through  a  legally  binding  and  enforceable  instrument  under 
Art. 46(2)(a) GDPR, or through provisions to be inserted into 
administrative arrangements under Art. 46(3)(b) GDPR. 

The EDPB notes that any international agreement concluded 
between  EEA  and  non-EEA  public  authorities  should  also 
safeguard  data  subject  rights  and  provide  for  a  redress 
mechanism that enables data subjects to exercise their rights 
in practice. 

Adopted: 15 December 2020 

29

EDPB Annual Report  20205.1.3.  Guidelines 

03/2020 
processing  of  data 
health 
the 
scientific  research 
of the COVID-19 outbreak 

on 
the 
concerning 
of 
in  the  context 

purpose 

for 

See Section 3.2.3 for a full summary.

The  GDPR’s  provisions  on  personal  data  processing  for 
scientific  research  are  also  applicable  in  the  context  of  the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 

The EDPB Guidelines address key questions on the processing 
of  health  data  for  scientific  research  in  the  context  of  the 
pandemic.

5.1.4.  Guidelines  04/2020  on 
and 

location  data 

of 
tracing 
the COVID-19 outbreak

tools 

in 

the  use 
contact 
the  context  of 

See Section 3.2.4 for a full summary.

When processing personal data is necessary for implementing 
data-driven solutions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
data  protection  is  key  to  ensuring  effective  solutions,  which 
are socially accepted. The EDPB clarifies the conditions and 
principles  for  the  proportionate  use  of  location  data  and 
contact-tracing apps.

30

5.1.5.  Guidelines  05/2020  on  consent 

under Regulation 2016/679

Over  the  last  decade,  the  Article  29  Working  Party  and  the 
EDPB  have  issued  guidance  on  consent  as  a  legal  basis  for 
personal  data  processing.  Past  guidance  has  focused  on 
defining valid consent as “freely given”, “specific”, “informed” 
and “unambiguous”. 

The EDPB updated the Article 29 Working Party guidance to 
avoid  misinterpretation and  to  further  clarify  the meaning  of 
consent with regard to personal data processing in the areas of 
cookie walls and user actions, such as scrolling or swiping. In 
this context, data controllers must ensure the following:

•  Cookie walls must give users clear and equal options to 
•  Cookie walls must allow users to access content without 

accept or reject cookies;

clicking  “Accept  Cookies”.  If  content  is  inaccessible 
without  making  a  choice  about  cookies,  the  user  is  not 
given a genuine choice and consent is therefore not “freely 
given”;

•  Actions such as scrolling or swiping through a webpage 

do not constitute a clear and affirmative action needed for 
lawful consent; 

•  Consent must be as easy to withdraw as it is to provide. 

Adopted: 4 May 2020

5.1.6.  Guidelines  06/2020  on  the  interplay 
Payments 

with 
Services Directive and the GDPR

Second 

the 

The  second  Payments  Services  Directive  (PSD2)  repeals 
Directive  2007/64/EC  and  provides  legal  clarity  for  entities 
involved in the provision of payment services within the EEA. 

The Guidelines are a more detailed and considered response, 
requested  to  support  an  initial  letter,  concerning  regulatory 

EDPB Annual Report  2020interplay  between  the  GDPR  and  the  PSD2.  The  Guidelines 
provide  clarification  on  aspects  related  to  the  collection 
and  processing  of  personal  data  by  entities  involved  in  the 
payments services sector. More specifically, the PSD2 provides 
clarity  to  those  data  controllers  that  have  legal  obligations 
associated with the PSD2. The EDPB confirms that controllers 
in  the  payment  services  sector  should  always  ensure 
compliance with the requirements of the GDPR and stresses 
this  importance.  The  EDPB,  however,  is  appreciative  of  the 
regulatory  uncertainty  given  the  complexity  of  the  interplay 
between the GDPR and the PSD2.

The Guidelines focus on a number of components critical to 
the interplay between the two legal frameworks. In summary, 
they provide guidance and clarity on the following subjects:

•  Lawful grounds and further processing;
•  Explicit consent;
•  The processing of silent party data;
•  The  processing  of  special  categories  of  data  under  the 
•  Data  minimisation,  security,  transparency,  accountability 

PSD2;

and profiling.

Adopted: 17 July 2020

5.1.7.  Guidelines 
concepts 
processor in the GDPR

07/2020 
of 

on 
controller 

the 
and 

This  updated  EDPB  guidance  builds  upon  and  replaces  the 
Article  29  Working  Party  Opinion  01/2010  (WP169)  on  the 
concepts  of  “controller”  and  “processor”,  providing  more 
developed and specific clarifications of these concepts in light 
of the changes brought by the GDPR. 

The  Guidelines  offer  a  focus  on  definitions  and  pragmatic 
consequences attached to the different data protection roles, 
clarifying the following concepts: 

•  The concepts of controller, joint controller and processor 

are  functional  and    autonomous  concepts:  they  allocate 
responsibilities according to the actual roles of the parties 
and  they  should  be  interpreted  mainly  according  to  EU 
data protection law. 

•  The  data  controller  may  be  defined  by  law  or  may  be 

established on the basis of an assessment of the factual 
circumstances  surrounding  the  processing.  Controllers 
are the ones that determine both purposes and “means” of 
the processing, i.e. the “why” and the “how”;

•  The  data  processor  processes  personal  data  on  behalf 

of  the  controller  and  must  not  process  the  data  other 
than  according  to  the  controller’s  instructions,  but  the 
processor may be left a certain degree of discretion and 
may determine more practical aspects of the processing, 
including 
“non-essential  means”.  Data  processing 
agreements  between  controllers  and  processors  should 
include  specific  and  concrete  information  on  how  the 
requirements set out by Art. 28 GDPR will be met;

•  Joint  controllers  are  two  or  more  entities  that  jointly 

determine  the  purposes  and  means  of  the  processing 
through  “common  decisions”  or  “converging  decisions”, 
in  such  a  manner  that  the  processing  by  each  party  is 
inseparable. The distribution and allocation of obligations 
among joint controllers can have a degree of flexibility, as 
each controller shall ensure its processing is carried out in 
compliance  with  data  protection  requirements.  Although 
the legal form of the arrangement among joint controllers 
is not specified by the GDPR, the EDPB recommends that it 
should be made in the form of a binding document.

Adopted: 2 September 2020

31

EDPB Annual Report  20205.1.8.  Guidelines 

on 
targeting of social media users

08/2020 

the 

5.1.9.  Guidelines  09/2020  on 

reasoned 

and 
Regulation 2016/679

objection 

relevant 
under 

As  mechanisms  used  to  target  social  media  users  become 
more sophisticated and an increasingly large number of data 
sources  are  combined  and  analysed  for  targeting  purposes, 
the topic has gained increased public interest and regulatory 
scrutiny. 

Within this environment, the EDPB identifies three key actors: 

•  Users: individuals who make use of social media; 
•  Social media providers: providers of an online service that 
•  Targeters: natural or legal persons that use social media 

enables the development of networks of users; 

services to direct specific messages to users.

Referring to relevant case law of the Court of Justice of the 
EU,  such  as  the  judgments  in  Case  C-40/17  (Fashion  ID), 
Case  C-25/17  (Jehovah’s  Witnesses)  and  Case  C-210/16 
(Wirtschaftsakademie), the EDPB provides specific examples 
to  clarify  the  roles  of  targeters  and  social  media  providers 
within different targeting mechanisms. Social media providers 
and  targeters  are  often  identified  as  joint  controllers  for  the 
purposes of Art. 26 GDPR. 

The  EDPB  also  identifies  the  risks  posed  to  the  rights  and 
freedoms of individuals as they result from processing personal 
data, including the possibility of discrimination and exclusion, 
and  the  potential  for  manipulating  and  influencing  users.  In 
this  context,  the  EDPB  highlights  the  relevant  transparency 
requirements,  the  right  of  access  and  the  joint  controllers’ 
duty to conduct a Data Protection Impact Assessment if the 
processing operations are “likely to result in a high risk” to the 
rights and freedoms of data subjects. 

Adopted: 2 September 2020 

32

With increasing attention placed on the cooperation mechanism 
for SAs outlined in the GDPR, the EDPB guidance establishes 
a  common  understanding  of  the  notion  of  a  “relevant  and 
reasoned” objection, on the basis of the definition enshrined in 
Art. 4(24) GDPR, and addresses its interpretation. 

Under the cooperation mechanism, and specifically under Art. 
60(3)  GDPR,  a  Lead  Supervisory  Authority  (LSA)  is  required 
to  submit  a  draft  decision  to  the  Concerned  Supervisory 
Authorities  (CSAs),  who  may  then  raise  a  “relevant  and 
reasoned objective” within the set timeframe. 

In this context, the EDPB further clarifies the meaning of each of 
the elements of the definition in Art. 4(24) GDPR, which requires 
a relevant and reasoned objection to determine whether there 
is  an  infringement  of  the  GDPR  or  whether  the  envisaged 
action in relation to the controller or processor complies with 
the GDPR, and to clearly demonstrate the significance of the 
risks posed by the draft decision as regards the fundamental 
rights  and  freedoms  of  data  subjects  and,  where  applicable, 
the free flow of personal data within the EU. 

The  EDPB  notes  that  for  an  objection  to  be  “relevant”,  there 
should  be  a  direct  connection  between  the  draft  decision  at 
hand and the objection, since the objection, if followed, would 
entail  a  change  to  the  draft  decision  leading  to  a  different 
conclusion as to whether there is an infringement of the GDPR, 
or  whether  the  envisaged  action  towards  the  controller  or 
processor complies with the GDPR. 

The  objection  will  be  “reasoned”  when  it  is  clear,  precise, 
coherent and detailed in explaining the reasons for objection, 
through  legal  or  factual  arguments. The  EDPB  also  provides 
clarifications  on  the  obligation  for  the  CSAs  to  clearly 
demonstrate  in  their  objection  the  significance  of  the  risks 

EDPB Annual Report  2020circumstances in which controllers are empowered to resort 
to restrictions.  

Restrictions under Art. 23 GDPR need to pass a necessity and 
proportionality test, typically implying the assessment of risks 
to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  data  subjects.  The  necessity 
test is based on the objective of general interest pursued. Only 
where the necessity test is satisfied, the proportionality of the 
measure is assessed. 

The  Guidelines  also  provide 
information  concerning  the 
specific requirements set out in Art. 23(2) GDPR, whereby the 
legislative measures setting out the restrictions need to contain 
specific provisions concerning a list of elements, including the 
purposes of processing, the scope of the restrictions, and the 
risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects. 

The controller should document the application of restrictions 
to concrete cases in line with the accountability principle and 
should lift the restrictions as soon as the circumstances that 
justify them no longer apply.  Once restrictions are lifted, data 
subjects must be allowed to exercise all their rights in relation 
to the data controller.

SAs should be consulted before the adoption of the legislative 
measures  setting  the  restrictions  and  have  the  powers  to 
enforce compliance with the GDPR.

Adopted: 15 December 2020

posed  by  the  draft  decision  for  the  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms of data subjects and, where applicable, the free flow 
of personal data.

Adopted: 8 October 2020 

5.1.10.  Guidelines  10/2020  on  restrictions 

under Art. 23 GDPR

The  GDPR  allows  for  data  subject  rights  to  be  restricted  in 
exceptional  circumstances.  The  EDPB  issued  guidance  on 
restrictions  of  data  subject  rights  under  Art.  23  GDPR.  The 
Guidelines recall the conditions surrounding the use of such 
restrictions in light of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights 
and the GDPR. They provide a thorough analysis of the criteria 
to apply restrictions, the assessments that must be observed, 
how data subjects can exercise their rights after the restrictions 
are lifted, and the consequences of infringing Art. 23 GDPR.

Under specific conditions, Art. 23 GDPR allows a national or 
EEA legislator to restrict, by way of a legislative measure, the 
scope  of  the  rights  and  obligations  enshrined  in  Chapter  III 
GDPR  (data  subject  rights)  and  corresponding  provisions  of 
Art.  5  GDPR,  as  well  as  Art.  34  GDPR,  only  if  this  restriction 
respects the essence of the relevant fundamental rights and 
freedoms,  and  is  a  necessary  and  proportionate  measure  in 
a democratic society to safeguard, amongst others, national 
security  or  important  objectives  of  general  public  interest. 
The legislator issuing the legislative measures that set out the 
restrictions and the data controllers applying them should be 
aware of the exceptional nature of these restrictions.

The  Guidelines  provide  details  on  the  interpretation  of  each 
of these requirements, also highlighting how the requirement 
for a legislative measure can be met and the fact that such a 
measure needs to be adapted to the objective pursued. It also 
needs to meet the foreseeability criterion by being sufficiently 
clear so as to give individuals an adequate indication of the 

33

EDPB Annual Report  20205.1.11.  Recommendations 

01/2020 

on 
measures  that  supplement  transfer 
tools  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
EU  level  of  protection  of  personal 
data supplementary measures 

See Section 3.3.3 for the full summary.

With  these  Recommendations,  the  EDPB  seeks  to  help  data 
exporters comply with EU law governing international transfers, 
as clarified by the Court of Justice of the EU in its judgment in 
Case  C-311/18  (Schrems  II).  The  Recommendations  provide 
data  exporters  with  six  steps  to  follow  to  ensure  that  the 
personal  data  transferred  is  afforded  a  level  of  protection 
essentially  equivalent  to  that  guaranteed  within  the  EU. 
The  Recommendations  also  describe  several  examples  of 
supplementary  measures  that  could  in  certain  situations 
contribute to ensuring the protection of personal data required 
under EU law. 

5.1.12.  Recommendations  02/2020  on  the 
Guarantees 

Essential 

European 
for surveillance measures  

See Section 3.3.4 for the full summary.

These  Recommendations  update  the  content  of  a  working 
document  issued  by  the  Article  29  Working  Party  with  the 
clarifications  that  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the  EU  and  the 
European Court of Human Rights provided since the publication 
of this working document. The European Essential Guarantees 
describe four guarantees to be found when assessing the level 
of interference with the fundamental rights to privacy and data 
protection of surveillance measures in third countries.

34

5.1.13.  Guidelines  adopted  following  public 

consultation 

5.1.13.1.  Guidelines  03/2019  on  processing 
video 

through 

personal  data 
devices

The proliferation of video devices in many spheres of individuals’ 
daily  lives  has  considerable  implications  for  data  protection 
and privacy. The use of facial recognition and analysis software 
could  threaten  to  reinforce  society’s  problematic  prejudices, 
and systematic video surveillance could lead to an acceptance 
of the lack of privacy as the default. 

In  its  Guidelines,  the  EDPB  notes  that  the  most  likely  legal 
bases  for  processing  video  surveillance  data  are  legitimate 
interest under Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR and consent under Art. 6(1)(e) 
GDPR. When relying on legitimate interest as the legal basis, 
the  necessity  of  deploying  video  surveillance  needs  to  be 
proven, and a balancing test needs to be carried out on a case-
by-case basis. When relying on consent, the EDPB recalls that 
it shall be “freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous”. 

The Guidelines highlight the need to pay particular attention to 
the processing of special categories of personal data, including 
biometric data. These could be identified when conducting a 
Data  Protection  Impact  Assessment  under  Art.  35(1)  GDPR, 
the results of which can inform the data protection measures 
that data controllers should implement. 

The  EDPB  notes  that  the  principle  of  transparency  and  the 
obligation  to  inform  data  subjects  of  video  surveillance 
operations  are  crucial.  The  Guidelines  elaborate  on  how 
controllers  can  fulfil  these  obligations  and  ensure  that  data 
subject rights can be exercised in practice. 

Adopted: 29 January 2020 

EDPB Annual Report  20205.1.13.2.  Guidelines  05/2019  on  the  criteria 
the  Right 
to  be  Forgotten 
the  search  engines  cases 

of 
in 
under the GDPR (part 1)

The EDPB adopted the final version of its guidance with regards 
to the personal data processed by search engine providers and 
data subject requests for delisting. 

The Guidelines provide insight into the six grounds on which 
to  request  delisting  pursuant  to  Art.  17(1)  GDPR,  including 
when the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to 
its  purposes,  the  data  subject  withdraws  their  consent,  the 
personal data is otherwise unlawfully processed, or when the 
data subject exercises the right to object. 

The EDPB also provided clarifications as to the exceptions to 
the right to request delisting as found in Art. 17(3) GDPR. 

Adopted: 7 July 2020 

5.1.13.3.  Guidelines  04/2019  on  Art.  25 
GDPR  Data  Protection  by  Design 
and by Default Version 2.0

Art.  25  GDPR  enshrines  the  principles  of  Data  Protection  by 
Design and by Default (DPbDD), which form a crucial part of 
personal data protection legislation and act as key obligations 
for data controllers. Whilst the Guidelines mainly address data 
controllers, other actors such as processors and designers of 
products and services will also benefit from them. 

The  EDPB  notes  that  controllers  have  to  implement  DPbDD 
through  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures 
early  on,  and 
into  the 
processing  throughout  its  lifecycle.  These  measures  ensure 
that data subject rights and freedoms are protected, and that 
data protection principles are effectively implemented.

integrate  necessary  safeguards 

  

The  Guidelines  also  provide  a  number  of  recommendations 
for  how  controllers,  processors  and  third  parties  in  the 
ecosystem  may  cooperate  to  achieve  DPbDD.  In  particular, 
they  may  engage  Data  Protection  Officers  from  the  outset, 
train employees on basic “cyber hygiene” and rely on codes of 
conduct to demonstrate compliance. 

Adopted: 20 October 2020

5.2. 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS

The  EDPB  aims  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  the 
GDPR across the EEA. To enable this, SAs from EEA countries 
must request an Opinion from the EDPB before adopting any 
decision in areas specified by the GDPR as having cross-border 
implications. This applies when an SA does the following: 

•  Intends  to  adopt  a  list  of  the  processing  operations 

subject  to  the  requirement  for  a  Data  Protection  Impact 
Assessment;

processing activities; 

•  Intends  to  adopt  a  draft  code  of  conduct  relating  to 
•  Aims 
•  Aims to adopt Standard Contractual Clauses; 
•  Aims to approve Binding Corporate Rules.

to  approve 
certification bodies; 

the  criteria  for  accreditation  of  

The competent SA must take utmost account of the Opinion. 
The  EDPB’s  Opinions  pertaining  to  specific  SAs  and  their 
implementation efforts are outlined below. 

See Section 5.5.

35

EDPB Annual Report  20205.2.1.  Opinions  on  draft  accreditation 
requirements  for  code  of  conduct 
monitoring bodies

issued  11  Opinions  on  draft  accreditation 
The  EDPB 
requirements  for  code  of  conduct  monitoring  bodies,  as 
submitted  by  individual  SAs.  The  SAs  submitted  their  draft 
accreditation  requirements  and  each  requested  an  Opinion 
under Art. 64(1)(c) GDPR. 

The aim of such EDPB Opinions is to ensure consistency and 
the correct application of the requirements among EEA SAs. In 
order to do so, the EDPB made several recommendations and 
encouragements to the various SAs on the amendments to be 
made to the draft accreditation requirements. 

All  SAs  amended  their  drafts  in  accordance  with  Art.  64(7) 
GDPR, taking utmost account of the Opinions of the EDPB.

The various Opinions are listed below:

•  Opinion  01/2020  on 

the  Spanish  data  protection 
Supervisory  Authority  draft  accreditation  requirements 
for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 
GDPR Adopted: 28 January 2020  

•  Opinion  02/2020  on 

the  Belgium  data  protection 
Supervisory  Authority  draft  accreditation  requirements 
for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 
GDPR  Adopted: 28 January 2020 

•  Opinion 03/2020 on the France data protection Supervisory 

Authority  draft  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code 
of  conduct  monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR  
Adopted: 28 January 2020 

•  Opinion 10/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authorities of Germany regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  Adopted: 25 
May 2020  

•  Opinion 11/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Ireland regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR  Adopted:  25 
May 2020 

•  Opinion 12/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Finland regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR  Adopted:  25 
May 2020 

•  Opinion 13/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  Italy  regarding  the  approval  of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR  Adopted:  25 
May 2020 

•  Opinion 18/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  the  Netherlands  regarding  the 
approval of the requirements for accreditation of a code 
of  conduct  monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR 
Adopted: 23 July 2020 

•  Opinion 19/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Denmark regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR  Adopted:  23 
July 2020  

•  Opinion 20/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Greece regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR  Adopted:  23 
July 2020  

•  Opinion 31/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Poland regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring  body  pursuant  to  Art.  41  GDPR  Adopted:  7 
December 2020

36

EDPB Annual Report  2020•  Opinion 15/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authorities of Germany regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted: 25 May 2020

•  Opinion 16/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  the  Czech  Republic  regarding 
the  approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification  body  pursuant  to  Art.  43(3)  GDPR  Adopted: 
25 May 2020

•  Opinion 21/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  the  Netherlands  regarding 
the  approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification  body  pursuant  to  Art.  43(3)  GDPR  Adopted: 
23 July 2020

•  Opinion 22/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Greece regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted: 23 July 2020

•  Opinion 23/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  Italy  regarding  the  approval  of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted: 23 July 2020

•  Opinion 26/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Denmark regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43.3 (GDPR) Adopted: 7 December 
2020

•  Opinion 30/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Austria regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43.3 (GDPR) Adopted: 7 December 2020

5.2.2.  Opinions  on  draft  requirements  for 

accreditation of a certification body

Ten  SAs  individually  submitted  their  draft  decisions  on 
accreditation requirements for certification bodies under Art. 
43(1)(b) GDPR to the EDPB, requesting an Opinion under Art. 
64(1)(c)  GDPR.  The  accreditation  requirements  allow  the 
relevant  national  accreditation  body  to  accredit  certification 
bodies  responsible  for  issuing  and  renewing  certification  in 
accordance with Art. 42 GDPR.

These Opinions aim to establish a consistent and harmonised 
approach  regarding  the  requirements  that  SAs  and  national 
accreditation  bodies  apply  when  accrediting  certification 
bodies  under  the  GDPR.  In  order  to  do  so,  the  EDPB  made 
several recommendations and encouragements to the relevant 
SAs on the amendments to be made to the draft accreditation 
requirements. 

The  SAs  then  amended  their  drafts  in  accordance  with  Art. 
64(7)  GDPR,  taking  utmost  account  of  the  Opinions  of  the 
EDPB.

The various Opinions are listed below:

•  Opinion 04/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  the  United  Kingdom  regarding 
the  approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification body pursuant to Art. 43.3 GDPR Adopted: 29 
January 2020

•  Opinion 05/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  Luxembourg  regarding  the 
approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification  body  pursuant  to  Art.  43(3)  GDPR  Adopted: 
29 January 2020

•  Opinion 14/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Ireland regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR Adopted: 25 May 2020

37

EDPB Annual Report  20205.2.3.  Opinions on draft decisions regarding 

Binding Corporate Rules 

SAs may approve Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) within the 
meaning of Art. 47 GDPR. BCRs are data protection policies 
implemented  and  adhered  to  within  a  group  of  enterprises 
established in the EEA for transfers of personal data outside 
the EEA within the same group. 

In 2020, several SAs submitted their draft decisions regarding 
the Controller or Processor BCRs of various companies to the 
EDPB,  requesting  an  Opinion  under  Art.  64(1)(f)  GDPR.  The 
EDPB issued nine Opinions on BCRs. In all instances, the EDPB 
concluded that the draft BCRs contained all required elements, 
and guaranteed appropriate safeguards to ensure that the level 
of  protection  in  the  GDPR  is  not  undermined  when  personal 
data  is  transferred  to  and  processed  by  the  group  members 
based  in  third  countries.  They  could  therefore  be  adopted 
without changes. 

•  Opinion  25/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Swedish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Tetra Pak Adopted: 31 July 2020  

•  Opinion  27/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Danish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Coloplast Group Adopted: 8 December 
2020

•  Opinion  28/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Iberdrola Group Adopted: 8 December 
2020

•  Opinion 29/2020 on the draft decision of the Lower Saxony 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  Novelis  Group  Adopted:  8  December 
2020

•  Opinion  32/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Dutch 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Equinix Adopted: 15 December 2020

The relevant SAs then went on to approve the BCRs.

5.2.4.  Other Opinions

The various Opinions are listed below:

•  Opinion  06/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Fujikura Automotive Europe Group (FAE 
Group) Adopted: 29 January 2020  

•  Opinion  08/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Irish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  Reinsurance  Group  of  America 
Adopted: 14 April 2020

•  Opinion  09/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Irish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate  Rules  of  Reinsurance  Group  of  America 
Adopted: 14 April 2020 

•  Opinion 24/2020 on the draft decision of the Norwegian 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Jotun Adopted: 31 July 2020  

Opinion 07/2020 on the draft list of the competent Supervisory 
Authority  of  France  regarding  the  processing  operations 
exempt  from  the  requirement  of  a  Data  Protection  Impact 
Assessment (Art. 35(5) GDPR) Adopted: 22 April 2020

Under  Arts.  35(6)  and  64(2)  GDPR,  the  EDPB  issues  an 
Opinion where an SA intends to adopt a list of data processing 
operations  not  subject  to  the  requirement  for  a  Data 
Protection Impact Assessment pursuant to Art. 35(5) GDPR.  
The French Supervisory Authority (FR SA) submitted an update 
of its draft list of exempt processing activities to the EDPB for 
its consideration.

The EDPB clarified that 12 of the items included had already 
been considered in its Opinion on the previous version of the 
list submitted by the FR SA.

38

EDPB Annual Report  20205.3. 

BINDING DECISIONS 

Decision 01/2020 on the dispute arisen on the draft decision of 
the Irish Supervisory Authority regarding Twitter International 
Company under Article 65(1)(a) GDPR 

The EDPB adopted its first dispute resolution decision on the 
basis  of  Art.  65  GDPR.  The  binding  decision  addressed  the 
dispute that arose after the Irish SA, acting as Lead Supervisory 
Authority  (LSA),  issued  a  draft  decision  regarding  Twitter 
International  Company  (TIC)  and  the  subsequent  relevant 
and  reasoned  objections  (RROs)  expressed  by  a  number  of 
Concerned Supervisory Authorities (CSAs). 

The LSA issued the draft decision based on its own investigation 
into TIC, after the company notified the LSA of a personal data 
breach on 8 January 2019. 

In May 2020, the LSA shared its draft decision with the CSAs 
in accordance with Art. 60(3) GDPR. The CSAs then had four 
weeks  to  submit  any  RROs.  Among  others,  the  CSAs  issued 
RROs on the infringements of the GDPR identified by the LSA, 
the role of TIC as the (sole) data controller and the calculation 
of the proposed fine. As the LSA rejected the objections and/
or considered they were not “relevant and reasoned”, it referred 
the matter to the EDPB per Art. 60(4) GDPR, thereby initiating 
the dispute resolution procedure for the first time. The EDPB 
officially launched this procedure on 8 September 2020.  

Similarly,  for  the  thirteenth  item,  the  EDPB  referred  to  its 
previous  Opinion,  which  addressed  this  kind  of  processing 
operation. For the remaining item, it was concluded that the 
draft list could lead to an inconsistent application of Art. 35 
GDPR,  so  the  EDPB  recommended  changes.  Specifically, 
regarding the management of commercial activities, the FR SA 
was advised to restrict the scope of this item by covering only 
business-to-customers relations, and by excluding processing 
sensitive  data  or  data  of  a  highly  personal  nature  from  this 
item.

Opinion  17/2020  on  the  draft  Standard  Contractual  Clauses 
submitted by  the SI  SA  (Art. 28(8) GDPR)   Adopted:  19 May 
2020   

The  contract  or  other  legal  act  to  govern  the  relationship 
between the controller and the processor in accordance with 
Art. 28(3) GDPR may be based, in whole or in part, on Standard 
Contractual  Clauses  (SCCs).  An  SA  may  adopt  SCCs  in 
accordance with the consistency mechanism. 

Therefore, the EDPB reviews draft SCCs submitted by SAs to 
contribute to the consistent application of the GDPR throughout 
the EU.    

In February 2020, the Slovenian SA (SI SA) submitted its draft 
SCCs to the EDPB, requesting an Opinion under Art. 64(1)(d) 
GDPR.  The  EDPB  made  a  number  of  recommendations  on 
how to amend the draft SCCs. The EDPB also recalled that the 
possibility to use SCCs adopted by an SA does not prevent the 
parties  from  adding  other  clauses  or  additional  safeguards, 
provided that they do not contradict, directly or indirectly, the 
adopted SCCs or prejudice the fundamental rights or freedoms 
of the data subjects. 

The  SI  SA  amended  its  draft  in  accordance  with  Art.  64(7) 
GDPR, taking utmost account of the Opinion of the EDPB.

39

EDPB Annual Report  2020The EDPB’s decision assessed whether each of the objections 
raised met the requirements set by Art. 4(24) GDPR. As a result, 
the main focus of the EDPB’s decision was the compliance of 
the draft decision of the Irish SA with Art. 83 GDPR. Several 
SAs  raised  RROs  that  the  proposed  fine  was  insufficiently 
dissuasive. 

Certification  under  the  GDPR  shall  be  issued  by  accredited 
certification bodies or by the competent SAs, on the basis of 
criteria approved by that competent SA or by the EDPB. In this 
regard, Art. 43(5) GDPR refers to the approval of certification 
criteria  with  an  EU-wide  reach,  namely,  the  European  Data 
Protection Seal.  

With a view to the consistent application of the GDPR, the EDPB 
decided that the LSA was required to reassess the elements it 
relied upon to calculate the amount of the fine. 

The LSA amended its draft decision by increasing the level of 
the fine to ensure it fulfilled its purpose as a corrective measure 
and  met  the  requirements  of  effectiveness,  dissuasiveness 
and proportionality established by Art. 83(1) GDPR, and taking 
into account the criteria of Art. 83(2) GDPR. 

For  further  information  see:  Art.  65  GDPR  Frequently  Asked 
Questions 

Adopted: 9 November 2020 

5.4. 

CONSISTENCY PROCEDURES 

The EDPB may produce documents to enable the consistent 
application of the GDPR across the EEA, as outlined here. 

5.4.1.  EDPB  document  on  the  procedure 
the  approval  of  certification 
resulting 
the 

for 
criteria  by 
in  a  common  certification, 
European Data Protection Seal

the  EDPB 

Arts.  42  and  43  GDPR  introduce  certification  as  a  new 
accountability  tool  for  data  controllers  and  processors. 
Certification  under  Arts.  42  and  43  GDPR  can  be  issued  for 
processing operations by controllers and processors.  

40

The EDPB document develops the procedure for the approval 
of a European Data Protection Seal, focusing on harmonisation 
and  consistency.  The  approval  procedure  consists  of  two 
phases: an informal cooperation phase and the formal approval 
phase. 

The informal cooperation phase involves all SAs and includes a 
review of the technical issues linked to the certification criteria, 
and  a  national  legislation  compatibility  check.  If  substantial 
issues are identified, they can be brought to the relevant EDPB 
expert subgroup for discussion.

The  procedure  also  foresees  the  possibility  for  the  scheme 
owner to ask for clarifications and respond to comments made 
during the informal phase.   

The  formal  approval  phase  is  based  on  the  procedure  for 
requesting  an  Art.  64(2)  GDPR  Opinion.  Therefore,  the  SA 
submitting  the  criteria  for  an  Opinion  of  the  EDPB  has  to 
provide written reasoning for the request. In this context, the 
document notes that the SA has to ask for an Opinion under 
Art. 64(2) GDPR regarding a matter producing effects in more 
than one Member State. The EDPB Secretariat will then be in 
charge of drafting the Opinions and, upon decision of the Chair, 
together with a rapporteur and expert subgroup members. 

The  EDPB’s  approval  process  is  completed  by  the  adoption 
of  an  Opinion  approving  or  rejecting  the  EU  Data  Protection 
Seal request for the submitted criteria. The EDPB’s Opinion is 
applicable in all Member States. 

Adopted: 28 January 2020 

EDPB Annual Report  20205.4.2.  EDPB  document  on  the  procedure 
informal 

for  the  development  of 
“Codes of Conduct sessions”

5.5. 

The EDPB document develops the procedure for the approval 
of transnational codes of conduct, focusing on harmonisation 
and  consistency.  The  approval  procedure  consists  of  two 
phases: an informal cooperation phase and the formal approval 
phase. The procedures build on Guidelines 01/2019 on Codes 
of Conduct and, in particular, its Section 8. 

The informal cooperation phase involves all SAs and the “Code 
sessions” are presented as a forum for informal discussions 
on  transnational  Codes  of  Conduct  that  have  not  yet  been 
formally  submitted  to  the  EDPB,  with  the  aim  of  finding  a 
consensus  on  the  standards  and  expectations  for  Codes  of 
Conduct and making these clear to the code owners. If there 
is a need for agreements regarding substantial elements of the 
Codes of Conduct, they can be brought to the relevant EDPB 
expert subgroup for discussion. 

The  document  further  clarifies  the  nature  and  format  of  the 
Code  sessions  and  elaborates  on  the  role  of  SAs,  and  their 
interaction with both the Competent SAs and the Code owners, 
as well as on the role of the EDPB Secretariat and the different 
phases of the approval process. 

The  formal  approval  phase  is  based  on  the  procedure  for 
requesting an Art. 64(1) GDPR Opinion. The EDPB Secretariat, 
together with two co-rapporteurs, is in charge of drafting the 
Opinions. 

REGISTER  FOR  DECISIONS  TAKEN 
BY  SUPERVISORY  AUTHORITIES 
AND 
ISSUES 
HANDLED  IN  THE  CONSISTENCY 
MECHANISM 

COURTS 

ON 

One of the roles of the EDPB is to maintain a publicly accessible 
electronic  register  of  decisions  taken  by  SAs  and  courts  on 
issues handled in the consistency mechanism per Art. 70(1)
(y) GDPR. This section outlines key decisions taken by various 
SAs, particularly in response to EDPB Opinions on the topic of 
their actions. 

See Section 5.2.

5.5.1.  Approval of Binding Corporate Rules 
of Fujikura Automotive Europe Group 
(FAE Group)  

As the BCR Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) in this case, the 
Spanish SA communicated a draft decision on the Controller 
BCRs of Fujikura Automotive Europe Group (FAE Group) to the 
EDPB in accordance with Art. 64(1)(f) GDPR. 

The  EDPB  provided  its  Opinion  6/2020  (January  2020)  on 
the  SA’s  draft  decision. The  SA  took  utmost  account  of  that 
Opinion and adopted its final decision approving the Controller 
BCRs of FAE Group in accordance with Art. 47(1) GDPR, finding 
that the BCRs provide appropriate safeguards for the transfer 
of personal data to members of the FAE Group established in 
third countries. 

Adopted: 10 November 2020  

Adopted: 11 March 2020  

41

EDPB Annual Report  2020In  its  review  of  the  Processor  BCRs,  the  SA  concluded  that 
they comply with the requirements set out by Arts. 47(1) and 
47(2) GDPR and contain clear responsibilities with regards to 
personal data processing.  

Adopted: 1 May 2020  

5.5.4.  Decision 

of 

the 

Slovakian 
Supervisory  Authority  authorising 
the  Administrative  Arrangement 
for  the  transfer  of  personal  data 
between  EEA  Financial  Supervisory 
Authorities  and  non-EEA  Financial 
Supervisory Authorities

Following  the  EDPB’s  Opinion  04/2019,  the  Slovakian  SA 
authorised the Administrative Arrangement for the transfer of 
personal data between EEA Financial Supervisory Authorities 
and non-EEA Financial Supervisory Authorities.  

In its decision, the SA noted that the provisions contained in the 
Administrative  Arrangement  provide  appropriate  safeguards 
for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  between  EEA  Financial 
Supervisory  Authorities  and  non-EEA  Financial  Supervisory 
Authorities, in accordance with Art. 46(3)(b) GDPR. 

The  SA  will  monitor  the  practical  application  of  the 
Administrative  Arrangement,  particularly  in  relation  to  data 
subject  rights,  onward  transfers,  redress  and  oversight 
mechanisms.  

Adopted: 4 May 2020  

5.5.2.  Decision  of  the  Irish  Supervisory 
Authority  approving  the  Controller 
Rules 
Corporate 
Binding 
of 
RGA 
International 
Reinsurance 
Company DAC (RGAI)

As  the  BCR  LSA  in  this  case,  the  Irish  SA  communicated  a 
draft  decision  on  the  Controller  BCRs  of  RGA  International 
Reinsurance Company DAC (RGAI) to the EDPB in accordance 
with Art. 64(1)(f) GDPR. 

The  EDPB  provided  its  Opinion  08/2020  (April  2020)  on 
the  SA’s  draft  decision. The  SA  took  utmost  account  of  that 
Opinion and adopted its final decision approving the Controller 
BCRs of RGAI in accordance with Art. 47(1) GDPR, finding that 
the  BCRs  provide  appropriate  safeguards  for  the  transfer  of 
personal data to members of the RGAI Group established in 
third countries.  

Adopted: 1 May 2020 

5.5.3.  Decision  of  the  Irish  Supervisory 
Authority  approving  the  Processor 
Rules 
Binding 
of 
Corporate 
RGA 
Reinsurance 
International 
Company DAC (RGAI)

As  the  BCR  LSA  in  this  case,  the  Irish  SA  communicated  a 
draft  decision  on  the  Processor  BCRs  of  RGA  International 
Reinsurance Group DAC (RGAI) to the EDPB in accordance with 
Art. 64(1)(f) GDPR. 

The  EDPB  provided  its  Opinion  09/2020  (April  2020)  on 
the  SA’s  draft  decision. The  SA  took  utmost  account  of  that 
Opinion and adopted its final decision approving the Processor 
BCRs  of  RGAI  in  accordance  with  Art.  47(1)  GDPR,  finding 
that  they  provide  appropriate  safeguards  for  the  transfer  of 
personal data to members of the RGAI Group established in 
third countries.  

42

EDPB Annual Report  20205.5.5. 

Supervisory 

Authority’s 
Irish 
additional 
accreditation 
requirements for certification bodies 

The Irish SA adopted the additional accreditation requirements 
for  certification  bodies  with  respect  to  ISO/IEC  17065/2012 
(ISO  17065)  and  per  Arts.  43(1)  and  43(3)  GDPR.  The 
document  contains  the  requirements  necessary  to  assess 
the  competence,  consistent  operation  and  impartiality  of 
certification bodies that intend to issue certifications pursuant 
to Arts. 42 and 43 GDPR.  

As underlined in the requirements, certification under the GDPR 
is only applicable to processing operations of controllers and 
processors. In order to issue GDPR certifications, certification 
bodies must be accredited in accordance with the requirements 
adopted by the competent SA.  

The approval of the additional accreditation requirements by 
the Irish SA will allow certification bodies that want to issue 
GDPR certification to apply for accreditation.  

Adopted: 1 June 2020 

5.5.6.  Decision of the Swedish Supervisory 
the  Binding 

Authority  approving 
Corporate Rules of Tetra Pak Group

As the BCR LSA in this case, the Swedish SA adopted a decision 
to approve the Controller BCRs of Tetra Pak Group  following 
the EDPB’s Opinion 25/2020 (July 2020) on its draft decision. 

The SA took utmost account of that Opinion and adopted its 
final decision approving the Controller BCRs of Tetra Pak Group 
in accordance with Art. 47(1) GDPR, finding that they provide 
appropriate  safeguards  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  to 
members of Tetra Pak Group established in third countries.  

Adopted: 17 August 2020  

5.5.7.  Decision 

of 

the 

Supervisory  Authority 
the 
Binding 
Rules of Jotun Group

Norwegian 
approving 
Corporate 

As  the  BCR  LSA  in  this  case,  the  Norwegian  SA  adopted  a 
decision to approve the Controller BCRs of Jotun to the EDPB 
following the EDPB’s Opinion 24/2020 (July 2020) on its draft 
decision. 

The  SA  took  utmost  account  of  that  Opinion  and  adopted 
its  final  decision  approving  the  Controller  BCRs  of  Jotun  in 
accordance  with  Art.  47(1)  GDPR,  finding  that  they  provide 
appropriate  safeguards  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  to 
members of the Jotun Group established in third countries.  

Adopted: 18 August 2020 

5.5.8.  German  Supervisory  Authorities’ 
requirements 
accreditation 
of  a  certification  body  pursuant 
to Art. 43(3) GDPR 

for 

The German SAs amended their requirements for accreditation 
of a certification body based on Art. 43(3) GDPR in connection 
with Art. 57(1)(p) GDPR. 

43

EDPB Annual Report  2020The revised requirements are a response to the EDPB’s Opinion 
15/2020 on the German SAs’ draft decision. 

The document contains the requirements necessary to assess 
the  competence,  consistent  operation  and  impartiality  of 
certification bodies that intend to issue certifications pursuant 
to Arts. 42 and 43 GDPR. The bodies that want to issue GDPR 
certification may then apply for accreditation. 

As  the  requirements  state,  certification  under  the  GDPR 
is  only  applicable  to  processing  operations  of  controllers 
and  processors.  Certification  bodies  must  be  accredited  in 
accordance with the requirements adopted by the competent 
SA in order to issue GDPR certifications. 

Adopted: 8 October 2020 

5.5.9.  German  Supervisory  Authorities’ 
accreditation 
for  a 
GDPR  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to Art. 41(3) GDPR

requirements 

The  German  SAs  amended  the  requirements  applicable  in 
Germany  for  the  accreditation  of  a  GDPR  code  of  conduct 
monitoring  body  in  response  to  EDPB  Opinion  10/2020  on 
their draft decision. The SAs outlined the administrative and 
substantive requirements to be fulfilled by the code of conduct 
monitoring body to receive accreditation.  

Approval  of  the  accreditation  requirements  by  the  German 
SAs  will  allow  monitoring  bodies  to  apply  for  the  necessary 
accreditation in relation to specific GDPR codes of conduct.   

Adopted: 8 October 2020 

44

5.5.10.  Irish 

Supervisory 

Authority’s 
accreditation 
for  a 
GDPR  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to Art. 41(3) GDPR 

requirements 

The Irish SA adopted the accreditation requirements of a code 
of  conduct  monitoring  body  following  the  EDPB’s  Opinion 
11/2020  on  its  draft.  In  its  decision,  the  SA  outlined  the 
administrative and substantive requirements to be fulfilled by 
the monitoring body to receive accreditation. The requirements 
include  explanatory  notes  and  examples  in  order  to  further 
elaborate  on  specific  requirements  or  list  some  elements 
that  may  be  provided  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  the 
requirements.    

As established in the GDPR, and underlined in the requirements, 
the monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct is carried 
out  by  accredited  monitoring  bodies.  As  such,  monitoring 
bodies are accredited to monitor a specific code of conduct 
and,  therefore,  the  compliance  with  the  requirements  for 
accreditation has to be demonstrated in relation to a specific 
code of conduct.  

The  approval  of  the  accreditation  requirements  by  the  Irish 
SA  will  allow  monitoring  bodies  to  apply  for  the  necessary 
accreditation in relation to specific codes of conduct.   

Adopted: 9 October 2020 

5.5.11.  Danish 

Supervisory 

Authority’s 
for  a 
accreditation 
GDPR  code  of  conduct  monitoring 
body pursuant to Art. 41(3) GDPR 

requirements 

The  Danish  SA  adopted  the  requirements  applicable 
in 
Denmark for the accreditation of code of conduct monitoring 
bodies following EDPB Opinion 19/2020 on its draft decision. 

EDPB Annual Report  2020In 
its  decision,  the  SA  outlined  the  administrative  and 
substantive requirements to be fulfilled by the monitoring body 
to receive accreditation.  

Monitoring bodies are accredited to monitor a specific code of 
conduct and, therefore, the compliance with the requirements 
for  accreditation  has  to  be  demonstrated  in  relation  to  a 
specific code of conduct.  

The approval of the accreditation requirements by the Danish 
SA  will  allow  monitoring  bodies  to  apply  for  the  necessary 
accreditation in relation to specific codes of conduct.   

Adopted: 12 November 2020 

5.5.12.  Decision  under  S.111  of 

the 
Irish  Data  Protection  Act  2018 
and  for  the  purposes  of  Art.  60 
GDPR 
the  matter  of  Twitter 
International Company

in 

The  Irish  SA  submitted  the  case  of  Twitter  International 
Company  (TIC)  to  the  consistency  mechanism  referred  to  in 
Art. 63 GDPR as a result of objections raised by other SAs in 
respect to the Irish SA’s draft decision in the case at hand.  

The Irish SA began an inquiry on 22 January 2019 to examine 
whether TIC complied with its obligations to notify the SA of 
a personal data breach per Art. 33(1) GDPR, and whether TIC 
adequately  documented  the  breach  as  per  Art.  33(5)  GDPR.    
The final decision was issued on 9 December 2020, in line with 
Art.  65(6)  GDPR,  which  requires  the  addressee  of  an  EDPB 
decision taken on the basis of Art. 65 GDPR to adopt its final 
decision  within  one  month  of  the  notification  of  the  EDPB 
decision.  

•  The  Irish  SA  found  that  TIC  did  not  comply  with  its 

obligations in Arts. 33(1) and 33(5) GDPR and elaborated 
upon  the  reasons  for  this  conclusion.  In  assessing  the 
administrative  fine  to  be  imposed  as  a  result,  the  SA 

referred to EDPB Decision 01/2020, which requested that 
the  SA  reassess  the  elements  upon  which  the  fine  is  to 
be determined, and considers the criteria outlined by Art. 
83(2) GDPR.  

In the matter of TIC’s compliance with the requirements found 
in Arts. 33(1) and 33(5) GDPR, the Irish SA decided to impose 
an administrative fine of USD 500,000 (EUR 450,000).  

Adopted: 9 December 2020                                                                 

5.6. 

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION 

5.6.1.  EDPB Letter concerning the European 
Commission’s  draft  Guidance  on 
apps supporting the fight against the 
COVID-19 pandemic 

See Section 3.2.2 for a full summary. 

In its draft Guidance on apps supporting the fight against the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the European Commission proposed the 
development of a pan-European and coordinated approach in 
the use of such tools. The EDPB welcomes this initiative and 
addresses specifically the use of apps for contact-tracing and 
warning individuals. 

5.6.2.  Statement on the ePrivacy Regulation 
and  the  future  role  of  Supervisory 
Authorities and the EDPB 

The  EDPB  adopted  its  Statement  with  regards  to  the  role  of 
SAs  and  the  EDPB  in  the  context  of  the  ePrivacy  Regulation 
currently  being  negotiated.  The  EDPB  highlights 
the 
importance  of  avoiding  the  fragmentation  of  supervision, 
procedural  complexity  and  diverging  interpretations  through 
the enforcement of the future ePrivacy Regulation.

45

EDPB Annual Report  2020In this context, the EDPB underlines that many of the provisions 
of  the  future  ePrivacy  Regulation  relate  to  the  processing 
of  personal  data  and  are  intertwined  with  provisions  of  the 
GDPR.  Thereby  the  oversight  of  the  ePrivacy  Regulation 
should  be  entrusted  to  the  same  national  authorities,  which 
are  responsible  for  enforcement  of  the  GDPR.   Further,  the 
EDPB  notes  that  the  existing  cooperation  and  consistency 
mechanism for the supervision and enforcement of the GDPR 
should  also  be  adopted  for  the  supervision  of  the  ePrivacy 
Regulation  in  the  context  of  personal  data  processing  and 
would lead to more harmonisation and consistency. The same 
framework would also benefit data controllers through a single 
point of contact and guarantee a level playing field on the EU 
Digital Single Market.  

Adopted: 19 November 2020 

5.7. 

OTHER DOCUMENTS

5.7.1.  Contribution  of  the  EDPB  to  the 

evaluation of the GDPR 

See Section 3.1 for a full summary. 

The  EDPB  and  national  SAs  contributed  to  the  European 
Commission’s evaluation and review of the GDPR, as required 
by  Art.  97  GDPR.  The  EDPB  considers  that  the  GDPR  has 
strengthened  data  protection  as  a  fundamental  right  and 
harmonised  the  interpretation  of  data  protection  principles, 
and believes it is premature to revise it at this point in time.

5.7.2.  Statement on privacy implications of 

mergers

The  EDPB  adopted  a  statement  on  privacy  implications  of 
mergers having noted the intention of Google LLC to acquire 
Fitbit,  Inc.  The  EDPB  expressed  concerns  regarding  the 

46

potentially high level of risk to the fundamental rights to privacy 
and personal data entailed by the possible further combination 
and accumulation of sensitive personal data by a major tech 
company.  The EDPB reminded the parties of their obligations 
under the GDPR and of the need to conduct in a transparent 
way a full assessment of the data protection requirements and 
privacy  implications  of  the  merger.  The  EDPB  expressed  its 
readiness to contribute further advice on the proposed merger 
to the European Commission if so requested.  

Adopted: 19 February 2020 

5.7.3.  Statement  on 

the  processing  of 
personal  data  in  the  context  of  the 
COVID-19 outbreak

See Section 3.2.1 for a full summary. 

The  EDPB  emphasises  that  respecting  data  protection  rules 
does not hinder the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Even 
in  exceptional  times,  data  controllers  and  processors  must 
ensure the protection of personal data. 

Adopted: 19 March 2020

5.7.4.  Statement  on  restrictions  on  data 
subject  rights  in  connection  to  the 
state of emergency in Member States  

See Section 3.2.5 for a full summary. 

The EDPB emphasises that when EEA Member States enter a 
state of emergency, such as that brought on by the COVID-19 
outbreak, the GDPR remains applicable and allows for efficient 
emergency response while protecting fundamental rights and 
freedoms.  

Adopted: 2 June 2020 

EDPB Annual Report  20205.7.5.  Statement  on 
the  processing  of 
personal  data 
in  the  context  of 
reopening  of  borders  following  the 
COVID-19 outbreak 

See Section 3.2.6 for a full summary. 

The EDPB urges EEA Member States to adopt a standardised 
approach  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the  context 
of  reopening  borders  during  the  COVID-19  pandemic  and 
emphasises  that  data  processing  must  be  necessary  and 
proportionate. 

Adopted: 16 June 2020 

5.7.6.  Statement  on  the  data  protection 
interoperability  of 

impact  of  the 
contact tracing apps 

See Section 3.2.7 for a full summary. 

The  EDPB  maintains  that,  without  a  common  EEA  approach 
in  response  to  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  an  interoperable 
framework  should  be  put  in  place  regarding  contact  tracing 
apps and then outlines seven key focus areas. 

Adopted: 16 June 2020

5.7.7.  Statement  on  the  Court  of  Justice 
of  the  European  Union  Judgment  in 
Case  C-311/18  –  Data  Protection 
Commissioner  v  Facebook  Ireland 
and Maximillian Schrems   

See Section 3.3.1 for a full summary. 

The EDPB believes that the CJEU’s judgment in Case C-311/18 
(Schrems II) highlights the importance of the fundamental right 
to privacy in the context of the transfer of personal data to third 
countries,  and  the  risk  for  data  subjects  caused  by  possible 

indiscriminate access by a third country’s public authorities to 
the  personal  data  transferred.  Standard  Contractual  Clauses 
that enable data transfers must maintain a level of protection 
in the third country that is essentially equivalent to that in the 
EEA.  

Adopted: 17 July 2020 

5.7.8. 

Information  note  on  BCRs 
for 
Groups of undertakings / enterprises 
which have ICO as BCR Lead SA

issued  an 

The  EDPB 
information  note  with  regards  to 
arrangements for enterprises that have BCRs where the UK SA 
is the competent SA. In light of Brexit, such BCR holders need 
to  make  all  organisational  arrangements  to  establish  a  new 
BCR Lead SA in the EEA. 

The  EDPB  notes  that  any  current  BCR  applications  before 
the UK SA are also encouraged to put in place organisational 
arrangements on the basis of which a new BCR Lead SA in the 
EEA can be established. This should be completed before the 
end of the Brexit transition period.  

With the aim of providing clarification to BCR holders, the EDPB 
has a practical checklist of elements that must be amended  
to  ensure  their  BCRs  remain  a  valid  transfer  mechanism  for 
transfers of data outside the EEA after the transition period. 
The same checklist informs applicants with BCRs undergoing 
review  by  the  UK  SA  as  to  which  changes  need  to  become 
effective (at the latest) at the end of the transition period.  

Adopted: 22 July 2020  

47

EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020

5.7.9.  Frequently  Asked  Questions  on  the 
judgment  of  the  Court  of  Justice  of 
the European Union in Case C-311/18 
–  Data  Protection  Commissioner  v 
Facebook Ireland Ltd and Maximillian 
Schrems 

In this Document, the EDPB provides an illustrative overview of 
the structure of the CEF and outlines its lifecycle, stipulates its 
legal basis and the division of competences between the EDPB 
and the SAs, as well as indicating the relationship between the 
CEF and the cooperation and consistency mechanism under 
the GDPR.  

See Section 3.3.1 for a full summary. 

Adopted: 20 October 2020 

Following  the  CJEU’s  judgment  in  Case  C-311/18  (Schrems 
II),  the  EDPB  provided  clarifications  on  the  judgment  in  a 
document addressing 12 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 
about  personal  data  transfers  from  the  EEA  to  the  U.S.  and 
other third countries. 

Adopted: 23 July 2020 

5.7.10.  EDPB  Document  on  Coordinated 
under 

Framework 

Enforcement 
Regulation 2016/679 

In  this  Document,  the  EDPB  introduces  the  Coordinated 
Enforcement  Framework  (CEF),  which  builds  upon  and 
supports mechanisms for cooperation as outlined in the GDPR.  

information  gathering  and 

In  this  context,  the  CEF  provides  a  structure  for  annual 
coordinated  actions  by  EDPB  SAs.  The  objective  of  the  CEF 
is  to  facilitate  joint  actions,  such  as  joint  awareness-raising 
activities, 
investigations. 
Coordinated  actions  thus  contribute  to  GDPR  compliance, 
the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, and to 
reducing the risks of new technologies to the right of personal 
data protection.  

joint 

48

5.7.11.  Statement  on 

the  protection  of 
personal  data  processed  in  relation 
with 
the  prevention  of  money 
laundering and terrorism financing 

its  Statement  following  the 

The  EDPB  adopted 
launch 
of  the  public  consultation  in  May  2020  on  the  European 
Commission’s Action Plan for a comprehensive Union policy 
for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing 
for a comprehensive Union policy for the prevention of money 
laundering and terrorist financing. In its Statement, the EDPB 
reaffirms  the  existing  interplay  between  the  protection  of 
privacy,  personal  data  and  anti-money  laundering  measures, 
and  stresses  the  need  to  address  this  relationship  in  the 
updated legislation.  

Specifically, the relevance and accuracy of the data collected 
plays a paramount role, as well as the need to specify a clear 
legal basis, and define the limits and purposes of personal data 
processing. The  EDPB  notes  that  this  is  especially  pertinent 
in the context of international data transfers and information 
sharing, as has also been noted by the EDPS in his Opinion on 
the same Action Plan.  

The EDPB highlights the importance of the compatibility of the 
anti-money laundering measures with the rights to privacy and 
data protection, as enshrined in the EU Charter of Fundamental 
Rights, and the principles of necessity and proportionality.  

Adopted: 15 December 2020   

EDPB Annual Report  2020

5.7.12.  EDPB  Document  on  Terms  of 
Reference of the EDPB Support Pool 
of Experts 

cooperation  procedure.  Inclusion  in  the  list  does  not  imply 
endorsement by the EDPB of these BCRs. 

Adopted: 21 December 2020 (updated on 26 January 2021)  

Within its mission of ensuring a high and consistent level of 
protection of personal data throughout the EEA Member States, 
and as part of its investigatory and enforcement activities, the 
EDPB adopted the Terms of Reference of its Support Pool of 
Experts (SPE), which aims to provide material support to EDPB 
Members and to enhance cooperation and solidarity between 
all  EDPB  Members.  The  SPE  comprises  both  EDPB  experts 
and  external  experts,  and  is  deployed  to  assist  the  carrying 
out  of  support  investigations  and  enforcement  activities  of 
significant common interest.   

The  EDPB  Document  outlines  the  different  types  of  support 
activities  that  the  SPE  may  provide,  including  analytical 
support, the preparation of investigative reports and assisting 
in the performance of findings of a forensic nature. The EDPB 
notes the legal bases for  the creation of  the SPE,  which  are 
outlined in the GDPR, and elaborates on the key principles of 
SPE  involvement,  including  the  principles  of  voluntariness, 
confidentiality  and  coordination.  In  its  Document,  the  EDPB 
also outlines the composition of the SPE, the role of the EDPB 
and external experts involved therein, as well as the process of 
reporting and evaluation.  

Adopted: 15 December 2020  

5.7.13.  Pre-GDPR  Binding  Corporate  Rules 

overview list 

The EDPB published a list of pre-GDPR BCRs on its website. 
This list provides information on BCRs that were submitted to 
SAs  in  accordance  with  the  rules  applicable  under  Directive 
95/46  and  for  which  the  procedure  for  approval  ended  prior 
to  25  May  2018,  when  the  GDPR  started  applying.  The  list 
notes which SA took charge of coordinating the informal EU 

5.7.14.  Information  note  on  data  transfers 
the  United 

under 
Kingdom after the transition period 

the  GDPR 

to 

The first version of the note, adopted on 15 December 2020, 
described  the  situation  in  which  transfers  of  personal  data 
to  the  UK  constitute  transfers  to  a  third  country.  However, 
the document was updated taking into consideration that on 
24 December 2020, an agreement was reached between the 
EU and the UK. The agreement provides that for a maximum 
period of six months from its entry into force – i.e., until 30 
June 2021 at the latest - and upon the condition that the UK’s 
current  data  protection  regime  stays  in  place,  all  flows  of 
personal data between stakeholders subject to the GDPR and 
UK organisations will not be considered as such international 
transfers.  

Until 30 June 2021, at the latest, organisations subject to the 
GDPR will be able to carry on transferring personal data to UK 
organisations without the need to either put in place a transfer 
tool under Art. 46 GDPR or rely on an Art. 49 GDPR derogation. 
If  no  adequacy  decision  applicable  to  the  UK  as  per  Art.  45 
GDPR is adopted by 30 June 2021 at the latest, all transfers of 
personal data between stakeholders subject to the GDPR and 
UK entities will then constitute a transfer of personal data to a 
third country. 

The EDPB recalls the specific information note it has previously 
issued on the topic, as well as the specific guidance on possible 
supplementary measures in its Recommendations 01/2020. 

Adopted: 15 December 2020 (updated on 13 January 2021) 

49

EDPB Annual Report  2020

5.7.15.  Statement  on  the  end  of  the  Brexit 

5.8. 

transition period 

PLENARY MEETINGS AND EXPERT 
SUBGROUPS 

The first version of the Statement, adopted on 15 December 
2020,  was  updated  taking  into  consideration  that  on  24 
December 2020, an agreement on future relations was reached 
between the EU and the UK. The EDPB reminds all stakeholders 
that  the  agreement  provides  that,  for  a  specified  period  and 
upon  the  condition  that  the  UK’s  current  data  protection 
regime stays in place, all transfers of personal data between 
stakeholders  subject  to  the  GDPR  and  UK  entities  will  not 
be  considered  as  transfers  to  a  third  country  subject  to  the 
provisions of Chapter V GDPR . This interim provision applies 
for a maximum period of six months (i.e., until 30 June 2021 
at the latest).  

The EDPB specifies that, as of 1 January 2021, the One-Stop-
Shop (OSS) mechanism is no longer applicable to the UK, so 
the UK Information Commissioner’s Office is no longer part of 
it. 

The EDPB wishes to emphasise that the decision to benefit from 
the unified dialogue enabled by the OSS mechanism in cross-
border processing cases is up to the individual controllers and 
processors, who to that end may decide whether to set up a 
new  main  establishment  in  the  EEA  under  the  terms  of  Art. 
4(16) GDPR.

The  EDPB  recalls  that  controllers  and  processors  not 
established  in  the  EEA,  but  whose  processing  activities  are 
subject to the application of the GDPR under Art. 3(2) GDPR, 
are  required  to  designate  a  representative  in  the  Union  in 
accordance with Art. 27 GDPR. 

Adopted: 15 December 2020 (updated on 13 January 2021) 

Between  1  January  and  31  December  2020,  the  EDPB  held 
27  plenary  meetings.  The  agendas  and  minutes  of  the 
plenary sessions are published on the EDPB website. During 
these  meetings,  the  EDPB  adopted  Guidelines,  Opinions  and 
other  documents  such  as  statements  or  information  notes 
to advise the European Commission, national SAs and other 
stakeholders  on  GDPR  matters,  as  outlined  earlier  in  this 
chapter.  In  addition,  there  were  145  expert  group  meetings. 
In total, 268 meetings were held, including plenary meetings, 
expert subgroup meetings and drafting team meetings. 

The different expert subgroups focus on specific areas of data 
protection and assist the EDPB in performing its tasks. Chapter 
9 outlines the list of the expert subgroups and their respective 
mandates. 

5.9. 

STAKEHOLDER 
AND TRANSPARENCY

CONSULTATION 

5.9.1.  Stakeholder 

guidance 

events 

on 

future 

The  EDPB  organises  stakeholder  events  to  gather  input  and 
views  on  specific  issues  in  the  interest  of  developing  future 
guidance.  In  2020,  the  EDPB  organised  one  such  event  on 
legitimate interest. This event was held entirely online due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Participants gave examples of how 
they  had  been  using  legitimate  interest  as  a  legal  basis  for 
data processing, and highlighted areas that needed clarifying 
or explaining. The EDPB will use this stakeholder input in the 
context of drafting future guidance on legitimate interest. 

50

5.9.2.  Public 

consultations 

on 

draft 

guidance 

Following  the  preliminary  adoption  of  Guidelines,  the  EDPB 
organises  public  consultations  to  give  stakeholders  and 
citizens the opportunity to provide additional input. The EDPB 
Members  in  charge  of  drafting  the  Guidelines  consider  this 
input in the subsequent drafting process. The Guidelines are 
then adopted in their final version. 

To  further  enhance  transparency,  the  EDPB  publishes  on  its 
website stakeholders’ contributions to public consultations. In 
2020, the EDPB launched several such consultations: 

•  In  February,  the  EDPB  opened  public  consultations  on 

both Guidelines 01/2020 on processing personal data in 
the  context  of  connected  vehicles  and  mobility  related 
applications and Guidelines 02/2020 on Arts. 46(2)(a) and 
46(3)(b) of Regulation 2016/679 for transfers of personal 
data  between  EEA  and  non-EEA  public  authorities  and 
bodies.  It  received  62  contributions  to  the  Guidelines 
01/2020  on  connected  vehicles,  including  input  from 
U.S.-based  business  organisations.  Guidelines  02/2020 
received contributions from 12 entities, mainly comprising 
public authorities. 

•  In July, Guidelines 06/2020 on the interplay of the Second 

Payment Services Directive and the GDPR were opened for 
public consultation. The EDPB received 39 contributions. 

•  The EDPB published Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts 

of  controller  and  processor  in  the  GDPR  and  Guidelines 
08/2020  on  the  targeting  of  social  media  users  for 
consultation  in  September.  109  entities  gave  input  on 
Guidelines  07/2020  on  controllers  and  processors,  and 
33 gave input on Guidelines 08/2020 on targeting social 
media users. 

•  In October, Guidelines 09/2020 on relevant and reasoned 

objection  under  Regulation  2016/679  were  opened  for 
public  consultation  and  received  three  contributions.   
 

EDPB Annual Report  2020

•  In December, the EDPB launched public consultations on 

Guidelines  10/2020  on  restrictions  under  Art.  23  GDPR, 
which received 11 contributions. 

•  Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement 

transfer  tools  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  EU  level  of 
protection  of  personal  data  were  open  for  public  input 
in  November.  193  entities,  comprising  mainly  business 
associations, submitted responses. 

5.9.3.  Stakeholder  survey  on  adopted 

guidance 

For the third year in a row, the EDPB conducted a survey as part 
of the annual review of the EDPB’s activities under Art. 71(2) 
GDPR.  Questions centred on the EDPB’s work and output in 
2020, with a focus on its Guidelines and Recommendations, all 
with a view to understanding the extent to which stakeholders 
find  the  EDPB’s  guidance  helpful  in  interpreting  the  GDPR’s 
provisions,  and  in  order  to  identify  future  paths  to  better 
support organisations as they approach data protection. 

5.9.3.1.  Participants 

Multiple  entities,  including  individual  companies  and  Non-
Governmental Organisations, representing different countries, 
sectors  and  business  sizes,  participated 
in  the  survey. 
Businesses  and  other  private  organisations  were  most 
represented.  

5.9.3.2.  Findings 

In line with the results of the 2019 survey, most stakeholders 
participating  in  the  2020  survey  found  the  Guidelines  and 
Recommendations to be helpful in interpreting the GDPR and/
or to provide actionable guidance for their activities. The most 
positive  feedback  applied  to  Guidelines  01/2020,  02/2020, 

51

EDPB Annual Report  2020

03/2020, 09/2020, 10/2020 and the Recommendation 02/2020. 
The  second  most  mentioned  comment  was  that,  although 
the  Guidelines  contained  useful  and  actionable  information, 
they did not answer all the questions of the respondent. This 
applied in particular to Guidelines 02/2020 and 08/2020. The 
EDPB’s guidance on the concepts of controller and processor, 
measures  to  supplement  data  transfer  tools,  and  consent 
were  notably  popular.  However,  stakeholders  considered  the 
Recommendations 02/2020 as not helpful or clear enough. The 
results  showed  that  participants  had  consulted,  on  average, 
five Guidelines and Recommendations.  

Stakeholders  were  satisfied  with  the  examples  used  in  the 
EDPB  Guidelines  and  some  expressed  a  desire  for  further 
examples, for example with regard to the targeting of social 
media users. The addition of an executive summary to more 
Guidelines  was  well  received  and  respondents  would  like  to 
see  it  as  a  standard  section  of  guidance  documents.  More 
often than not, the EDPB guidance triggered a change in the 
broader strategy of the respondent organisations. 

A  majority  of  respondents  had  participated  in  at  least  one 
EDPB workshop and most who had done so found the overall 
experience  positive.  Participants  appreciated  the  useful  and 
insightful information shared by the EDPB during the workshops, 
especially as they created room for interaction. Similarly, most 
respondents had participated in the consultation process for 
certain Guidelines and found the experience positive. Having 
the  possibility  to  raise  concerns  created  a  welcome  form  of 
dialogue.  Some  respondents  expressed  a  desire  for  more 
meetings with the relevant stakeholders to enable more input. 

Stakeholders  mostly  found  the  relevant  Guidelines  and 
Recommendations directly on the EDPB website. 

5.9.3.3.  Conclusions 

The  EDPB  highly  appreciated  the  stakeholders’  participation 
and useful contribution to the EDPB’s work. Feedback on the 
guidance’s operational value and alignment with other EU laws 
was  equally  appreciated  as  it  gave  actionable  insights  into 
stakeholder  needs.  The  EDPB  also  welcomed  stakeholders’ 
value  of  transparency  and  interest  in  participating  in  the 
adoption process. In 2021, the EDPB is committed to continuing 
its cooperation and outreach to inform the development and 
effectiveness of future guidance. 

5.9.4.  Transparency 

and 

access 

to 

documents 

Transparency is a core principle of the EDPB. As an EU body, 
the EDPB is subject to Art. 15 of the Treaty of the Functioning 
of the European Union and to Regulation 1049/2001 on public 
access to documents. Art. 76(2) GDPR and Art. 32 of the EDPB’s 
Rules of Procedure reinforce this requirement. Upholding the 
principle of transparency means that any citizen of the EU, and 
any  natural  or  legal  person  residing  or  having  its  registered 
office  in  a  Member  State,  has  the  right  of  access  to  EDPB 
documents.  This  right  applies  to  all  documents  held  by  the 
EDPB, concerning any matter relating to its responsibilities. In 
exceptional cases, the EDPB may refuse to disclose all or part 
of a document. The reasons for refusal and other procedural 
rules are outlined in Regulation 1049/2001 on public access 
to documents. 

In 2020, there were 42 public access requests registered for 
documents held by the EDPB.

52

5.10.  EXTERNAL  REPRESENTATION  OF 

THE EDPB   

Public  awareness  and  cooperation  are  vital  to  upholding 
data  protection  rights  in  the  EEA  and  beyond,  which  is  why 
the  EDPB  values  stakeholder  and  citizen  engagement.  The 
EDPB  Secretariat  supports  the  Chair  and  Deputy  Chairs  in 
engagements with other EU institutions or bodies, and when 
they represent the EDPB at conferences and multi-stakeholder 
platforms. Staff members from the EDPB Secretariat also take 
part in several events to present the activities of the EDPB.

5.10.1.  Participation  of  Chair  and  Deputy 
Chairs  in  conferences  and  speaking 
engagements 

In  2020,  the  Chair  of  the  EDPB,  Andrea  Jelinek,  had  over  20 
speaking engagements, despite many events being cancelled or 
postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She gave almost all 
presentations remotely. The speaking engagements included 
press briefings, presentations and panel debates for a range 
of institutes, academic forums and policy agencies. The Chair 
also  met  with  European  Commissioners  and  representatives 
from, amongst others, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice 
and Home Affairs Committee of the European Parliament. The 
Chair  engaged  with  stakeholders  beyond  the  EU.  The  EDPB 
Deputy  Chair  Ventsislav  Karadjov  took  part  in  four  speaking 
engagements, including speeches and panel presentations. 

EDPB Annual Report  2020

5.10.2.  Participation 

of 
conferences 

in 
engagements 

EDPB 

Staff 
speaking 

and 

EDPB  staff  represented  the  EDPB  at  a  number  of events, both 
in-person and remotely. The events were hosted by, amongst 
others, universities and trade associations. EU representatives 
discussed timely issues, such as data protection in the age of 
the COVID-19 pandemic as well as international data transfers 
after the Schrems II decision.

53

6

Supervisory Authority activities 

in 2020

Under the GDPR, national Supervisory Authorities (SAs) have a 
duty to cooperate to ensure the consistent application of data 
protection law. In cases that have a cross-border component, 
the SAs of the European Economic Area (EEA), i.e. the 27 EU 
Member States plus Iceland, Norway and  Liechtenstein,  have  
a  range  of  tools  at  their  disposal to facilitate harmonisation.  

These tools are:  

•  Mutual assistance; 
•  Joint operations; 
•  The One-Stop-Shop cooperation mechanism.

6.1. 

CROSS-BORDER COOPERATION 

The  GDPR requires the EEA SAs to cooperate closely to ensure 
the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  and  protection  of 
individuals’ data protection rights across the EEA. 

One of their tasks is to coordinate decision-making in cross-
border data processing cases. 

6.1.1.  Preliminary procedure to 

identify the Lead and Concerned 
Supervisory Authorities 

Before starting a One-Stop-Shop (OSS) procedure for a cross-
border  case,  it  is  necessary  to  identify  the  Lead  Supervisory 
the  other  Concerned  Supervisory 
Authority  (LSA)  and 

54

EDPB Annual Report  2020Authorities (CSAs). The LSA leads the investigation and drafts 
the  decision,  while  the  CSAs  have  the  opportunity  to  raise 
objections.  

The  LSA  is  identified  as  the  SA  of  the  EEA  country  where 
the  data  controller  or  processor  under  investigation  has  its 
main  establishment.  To  identify  a  controller’s  or  processor’s 
main  establishment,  one  key  criteria  is  the  place  of  central 
administration. Further information on this subject is available 
in  the  Article  29  Working  Party  Guidelines  for  identifying  a 
controller’s  or  processor’s  LSA,  endorsed  by  the  EDPB  at  its 
first plenary meeting on 25 May 2018.  

The EDPB created workflows in the Internal Market Information 
System  (IMI)  to  enable  SAs  to  identify  their  respective 
roles.  This  IT  platform  is  used  to  support  cooperation  and 
consistency procedures under the GDPR. The main purpose of 
this procedure is to define roles at an early stage.  

In case of conflicting views regarding which SA should act as 
LSA, the EDPB acts as a dispute resolution body and issues 
a  binding  decision.  From  1  January  2020  to  31  December 
2020, there were 742 instances in which LSAs and CSAs were 
identified. In 2020, all decisions were made in consensus and 
no dispute under Article 65.1.b GDPR was brought to the EDPB.   

6.1.2.  Database regarding cases with 

a cross-border component 

 

A case with a cross-border component is registered in a central 
database via the IMI and may occur in several situations:  

in more than one Member State;  

•  When the data controller or processor has an establishment 
•  When  the  data  processing  activity  substantially  affects 
•  When SAs are simply exchanging information, i.e. providing 

individuals in more than one Member State; and/or  

each other with mutual assistance. 

Between  1  January  and  31  December  2020,  there  were 
628 cross-border  cases  out  of  which  461  originated  from  a 
complaint, while 167 had other origins, such as investigations, 
legal obligations and or media reports.  

6.1.3.  One-Stop-Shop mechanism  

The OSS mechanism demands cooperation between the LSA 
and the CSAs. The LSA leads the investigation and plays a key 
role in the process of reaching consensus between the CSAs, 
in addition to working towards reaching a coordinated decision 
about the data controller or processor.  

The  LSA  must  first  investigate  the  case  while  taking  into 
account national procedural rules, ensuring that the affected 
individuals are able to exercise their rights. During this phase, 
the  LSA  can  gather  information  from  another  SA  via  mutual 
assistance or by conducting a joint investigation. The IMI also 
gives the LSA the opportunity to informally communicate with 
all CSAs to collect relevant information. 

Once  the  LSA  has  completed  its  investigation,  it  prepares  a 
draft decision, which it then communicates to the CSAs. They 
have  the  right  to  object.  This  either  leads  to  a  revised  draft 
decision or, if no consensus can be found, the EDPB acts as 
a dispute resolution body and issues a binding decision. The 
LSA must adopt its final decision on the basis of the EDPB’s 
decision. If the CSAs do not object to either the initial draft or 
the revised decision, they are deemed to agree with the draft 
decision. 

55

EDPB Annual Report  2020Between 1 January 2020 and 31 December 2020, there were 
203 draft decisions, from which resulted 93 final decisions.  

The IMI offers different procedures that can be followed when 
handling OSS cases:  

•  Informal consultation procedures;  
•  Draft decisions or revised decisions submitted by the LSA 
•  Final OSS decisions submitted to the CSAs and the EDPB. 

to the CSAs; and/or 

The EDPB has published a new public register of the decisions 
taken  by  LSAs  pursuant  to  the  OSS  as  a  valuable  resource 
to showcase how SAs work together to enforce the GDPR in 
practice. The relevant LSAs have validated the information in 
this  register  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  provided  by 
their national legislation. 

6.1.4.  One-Stop-Shop decisions  

According to Art. 60(7) GDPR, the Lead Supervisory Authority 
(LSA)  shall  inform  the  EDPB  of  the  final  decision  taken 
concerning  cross-border  cases  in  the  context  of  the  OSS 
mechanism. According to the GDPR, there is no obligation to 
make these final decisions public.  

Nonetheless, during the 28th Plenary meeting of the EDPB on 
19 May 2020, the Members of the EDPB decided to publish a 
register on the EDPB website relating to these decisions and 
containing  the  maximum  amount  of  information  possible 
taking into consideration national limitations. 

The  register  offers  an  exceptional  opportunity  to  read  final 
decisions taken by, and involving, different SAs in a cross-border 
context. These decisions often contain interesting guidance on 
how to comply with the GDPR in practice. The register contains 
both final decisions and its summaries prepared by the EDPB 
Secretariat and duly approved by LSAs. 

56

This  section  contains  a  selection  of  examples  of  Art.  60 
GDPR  final  decisions  taken  from  the  EDPB’s  public  register. 
The first section contains some cases where SAs handed out 
administrative  fines  in  accordance  with  Art.  83  GDPR  when 
data  controllers  did  not  comply  with  the  GDPR.  The  second 
section  provides  summaries  of  some  other  final  decisions 
in  cases  where  SAs  did  not  issue  administrative  fines,  but 
provided guidance on the interpretation of specific provisions 
of the GDPR.  

As the register was made public in 2020, this Annual Report 
makes  reference  to  final  decisions  from  the  entry  into 
application of the GDPR in 2018 until the end of 2020, during 
which 168 final decisions were adopted. 

6.1.4.1.  Selection of cases involving 

administrative fines 

Consistent enforcement of data protection rules is central to a 
harmonised data protection regime. Once an infringement of 
the GDPR has been established based on the assessment of 
the facts of the case, the competent SA must identify the most 
appropriate  corrective  measure  to  address  the  infringement. 
Administrative fines are one of the most powerful enforcement 
measures the SAs can adopt, together with the other measures 
in Art. 58 GDPR. 

Lawfulness  of  processing  /  Personal  data 
breach / Security of processing / Administrative 
fines  

LSA: Lithuanian SA  

Year of decision: 2019 

This  case  concerned  the  taking  of  screenshots  by  the  data 
controller  when  a  user  made  an  online  payment  using 
its  service.  The  user,  however,  was  not  notified  about  the 

EDPB Annual Report  2020screenshots being taken. The screenshots recorded personal 
data of the payer, such as their name and surname, numbers, 
recent  transactions,  loans,  amounts,  mortgages  and  so  on. 
Moreover, the data controller had provided access to personal 
data to individuals who were not authorised and did not report 
the relevant data breach. 

Regarding  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  screenshots, 
the  LSA  considered  that  this  processing  by  the  controller 
went beyond what was necessary for the performance of the 
payment service and was also stored for a longer period than 
necessary.  The  controller  failed  to  demonstrate  the  need  to 
collect such an amount of personal data. Moreover, users were 
not informed of the processing. Therefore, the LSA considered 
that the processing of personal data was unlawful and that it 
violated the data minimisation and storage limitation principles. 

Regarding the unauthorised access to the personal data, due 
to  a  security  breach,  unauthorised  individuals  had  access 
to  the  data  concerned,  since  access  could  be  gained  on 
the  controller’s  website  merely  by  using  the  identity  of  the 
transaction number. The LSA found that the controller failed 
to  implement  the  appropriate  technical  or  organisational 
measures to ensure data security. The LSA found that the data 
controller  failed  to  notify  the  SA  of  the  relevant  data  breach 
as  required  by  Art.  33  GDPR  without  providing  sufficient 
explanation of that failure to notify. 

The LSA decided to impose a fine of EUR 61,500 (2.5% of the 
controller’s total annual worldwide turnover). 

Lawfulness of processing 

LSA: Maltese SA  

Year of decision: 2019 

The complainant lodged a complaint with the CSA alleging that 
the controller kept sending marketing communications to the 

complainant  even  though  he  had  previously  objected  to  the 
processing of his data for marketing purposes. The controller 
as  internal  procedure  accepted  requests  from  data  subjects 
only  when  the  requests  were  made  using  the  same  email 
address the users had used to open their accounts. 

Through its investigations, the LSA found out that the controller 
could not find the first email sent by the complainant to object 
to the processing of his data for marketing purposes even if 
this email was sent from the email address used by the user to 
open his account.  The data controller admitted that there was 
a possibility that the email had not been received or had not 
been dealt with properly.  

the  receipt  of  further  unsolicited  marketing 
Following 
communication, the complainant objected several more times. 
These emails were sent from email addresses different from 
the one used to open his account. Even if the controller was thus 
not able to comply with the data subject’s request as it could not 
identify him, the controller decided to block the complainant’s 
account  from  receiving  marketing  communications.  From 
the investigation, it appeared that the controller did not have 
any internal procedures for handling data subject requests. In 
addition, the controller did not cooperate with the LSA, which 
had to wait months to receive the requested submissions. 

The LSA found that the controller infringed Art. 21 GDPR by 
not having adequate procedures put in place to deal with the 
complainant’s request to exercise his right to object. The LSA 
decided that the controller also infringed Art. 31 GDPR by not 
cooperating  with  the  LSA.  Consequently,  the  LSA  imposed 
an administrative fine of EUR 15,000 on the controller. A EUR 
2,000 administrative fine was also imposed on the controller 
for having breached several provisions of national law relating 
to unsolicited communications.  

57

EDPB Annual Report  2020Transparency and information / Administrative 
fines 

training  purposes  and  stored  such  data  in  clear  text  in  its 
database for 15 days.  

LSA: Latvian SA 

Year of decision: 2019 

The  complainant  alleged  that  he  did  not  receive  information 
on the identity of the controller before submitting his order on 
an online retail platform. Moreover, the complainant contended 
that  the  privacy  policy  available  on  the  website  was  not  in 
conformity with the GDPR. 

During its investigation, the LSA found that the controller was 
a  Latvian  company  performing  retail  sales  through  several 
websites, including the one used by the complainant to order 
his goods. After establishing the identity of the controller, the 
LSA found that the privacy policy on the website did not provide 
information on the identity of the controller, the legal basis of 
the data processing, its purposes and the way data subjects’ 
consent was collected.  

The  LSA  found  that  the  controller  did  not  comply  with  its 
obligations under the GDPR and imposed a fine of EUR 150,000.

 
Principles  relating  to  processing  of  personal 
data  /  Transparency  and 
information  / 
Administrative fines 

LSA: French SA  

Year of decision: 2019 

The controller conducted a full and permanent recording of all 
phone calls from its customer service employees without their 
ability to object. The controller did not prove that it had limited 
this  processing  to  what  was  necessary  for  the  purposes  of 
assessing  and  training  its  employees.  The  controller  also 
recorded  the  bank  details  of  customers  placing  orders  by 
telephone  when  recording  its  employees’  conversations  for 

The  controller  collected  copies  of  Italian  health  cards  and 
valid identity cards for anti-fraud purposes. The controller also 
stored  a  significant  amount  of  personal  data  of  customers 
who had not connected to their account in over 10 years and 
of individuals who had never placed an order on the company’s 
website. After the expiry of the storage period for customers’ 
data,  the  company  kept  some  of  their  data  such  as  their 
email  address  and  password  in  a  pseudonymised  form  for 
the  alleged  purpose  of  enabling  customers  to  reconnect  to 
their  accounts.  The  controller  did  not  inform  its  customers 
that their data was transferred to Madagascar. The controller 
only cited in its privacy policy one legal basis for processing - 
consent - whereas it conducted several processing operations 
on  different  legal  bases.  The  controller  did  not  inform  its 
employees  individually  of  the  recording  of  their  telephone 
calls.  The  controller  accepted  user  account  passwords  with 
eight  characters  and  only  one  category  of  characters.  It 
also requested its customers to provide it with a scan of the 
bank  cards  used  for  ordering  for  anti-fraud  purposes. These 
were  subsequently  stored  by  the  company  in  clear-text  and 
containing all of the credit card numbers for six months.  

The  LSA  considered  that  the  controller’s  recording  of  all 
phone  calls  from  its  customer  service  employees,  including 
the  bank  details  of  customers  placing  orders  by  telephone, 
and the collection of Italian health cards, which contain more 
information than the identity card, were not relevant to combat 
fraud  and  was  excessive.  It  concluded  that  it  was  a  breach 
of  the  data  minimisation  principle  of  Art.  5(1)(c)  GDPR. The 
LSA  concluded  that  the  company’s  storage  of  a  significant 
amount of personal data of former customers and prospects 
over long periods that exceeded the purposes for which data 
were processed violated the storage limitation principle of Art. 
5(1)(e) GDPR. The LSA considered that the controller had not 
informed customers up to a specific date of the transfers of 

58

EDPB Annual Report  2020data to Madagascar nor of the respective legal basis for each 
processing operation. The LSA also decided that the controller 
did  not  adequately  inform  its  employees  of  the  recording  of 
their telephone calls.  

All  these  failings  constituted  a  breach  of  Art.  13  GDPR 
(information provided to data subjects). The LSA considered 
that the type of password authorised by the company did not 
take sufficient security measures to ensure the security of its 
customers’ bank data, which violated Art. 32 GDPR (security 
of processing). The LSA provided a detailed indication on how 
passwords can meet the threshold for “strong passwords”. The 
LSA decided to impose a compliance order on the controller 
to remedy its breaches of the principles of data minimisation, 
data  storage  limitation,  requirement  to  inform  data  subjects 
and to ensure data security. It associated the compliance order 
with a periodic penalty payment of EUR 250 per day of delay on 
expiry of a period of three months following the notification of 
this decision.   

The LSA also imposed on the controller an administrative fine 
of EUR 250,000. The LSA further decided to make its decision 
public on its website, identifying the company by name, for a 
period of two years.  

Lawfulness of processing / Transparency and 
information / Right to erasure / Administrative 
fines 

LSA: Spanish SA 

Year of decision: 2020 

phone through a hidden number via the controller’s application. 
The  audio  of  the  conversation  was  recorded  and  made 
available to the user. The user was able to share the recording 
on social media. The third party was not asked for consent for 
processing of his/her personal data.  

The  LSA  considered  that  the  controller  carried  out  the 
processing without first informing data subjects, namely, the 
people receiving the prank call. As such, the data subjects were 
not aware of the controller’s processing of their personal data. 
The controller claimed that it processed personal data based 
on the legitimate interest as per Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR. However, 
the  controller  did  not  inform  data  subjects  of  its  use  of  the 
legitimate  interests  of  the  controller  or  of  a  third  party  as  a 
legal basis for processing.  

The LSA decided that the controller’s processing of data was 
not necessary for the purposes of the protection of its legitimate 
interests,  nor  did  these  interests  outweigh  the  fundamental 
rights and freedoms of the data subject to the protection of 
his/her personal data. The LSA concluded that the legitimate 
interest referred to in Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR could be used as a legal 
basis for the processing of personal data in this case. Consent 
also could not serve as a legal basis in this data processing 
act. The conditions it requires, such as being informed, were 
not met.  The LSA concluded that the processing carried out by 
the controller could not, under any circumstances, be regarded 
as lawful and violated Art. 6 GDPR.  

For  the  infringement  of  Arts.  13  and  14  GDPR  and  the 
infringement  of  Art.  6  GDPR, 
two 
administrative fines, each of EUR 20,000.  

the  LSA 

imposed 

The  LSA  received  two  separate  complaints  related  to  the 
processing  of  personal  data  through  the  controller’s  mobile 
app for Android, from complainants who received prank calls 
via the controller’s application. This app allowed its users to 
carry out telephone pranks on third parties. The user selected 
a prank, and a third party (a “victim”) was then contacted by 

The LSA also required the controller to ensure compliance with 
the rules on personal data protection relating to its processing 
operations  within  three  months,  including  the  information  it 
provides to its clients and the procedure by which they must 
give  their  consent  to  the  collection  and  processing  of  their 
personal data.  

59

EDPB Annual Report  2020Personal data breach / Administrative fines 

LSA: United Kingdom SA 

Year of decision: 2020 

On  22  June  2018,  an  unidentified  attacker  gained  access  to 
the  data  controller’s  IT  systems  via  CAG  (a  tool  that  allows 
users  to  remotely  access  a  network)  and  maintained  this 
ability  to  access  without  being  detected  until  5  September 
2018. After gaining access to the wider network, the attacker 
traversed  across  the  network. This  culminated  in  the  editing 
of a JavaScript file on the controller’s website. The edits made 
by  the  attacker  were  designed  to  enable  the  exfiltration  of 
cardholder  data  from  that  website  to  an  external  third-party 
domain,  which  the  attacker  controlled.  The  controller  was 
alerted by a third party about the exfiltration of personal data 
from the controller’s website and then notified the LSA about 
the attack on 6 September 2018.  

The  controller  estimated  that  429,612  data  subjects  were 
affected.  The  affected  categories  of  personal  data  were 
username  and  passwords  of  contractors;  employees 
and  members  of  an  executive  club;  customer  names  and 
addresses; and unencrypted payment card data including card 
numbers, CVV numbers and expiry dates. The controller took 
immediate  measures  to  mitigate  and  minimise  any  damage 
suffered  by  the  data  subjects  by  implementing  remedial 
measures,  including  notifying  banks  and  payment  schemes, 
the data subjects and data protection regulators; cooperating 
with  regulatory  and  governmental  bodies;  and  offering 
reimbursement  to  all  customers  who  had  suffered  financial 
losses as a direct result of the theft of their card details. The 
controller  also  implemented  a  number  of  remedial  technical 
measures to reduce the risk of a similar attack in the future.  

The LSA found that the controller failed to process the personal 

60

data  of  its  customers  in  a  manner  that  ensured  appropriate 
security of the data, including protection against unauthorised 
or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction 
or  damage,  using  appropriate  technical  and  organisational 
measures, as required by Art. 5(1)(f) and Art. 32 GDPR. The LSA 
concluded  that  there  are  a  number  of  appropriate  measures 
that the controller could have considered to mitigate the risk 
of an attacker being able to access the controller’s network. 
The LSA considered that each step of the attack could have 
been  prevented,  or  its  impact  mitigated,  by  the  controller’s 
implementing  one  or  more  of  those  appropriate  measures 
that  were  open  to  the  controller.  The  LSA  also  considered 
that,  had  the  controller  performed  more  rigorous  testing  or 
internal  penetration  tests,  it  would  have  likely  detected  and 
appropriately addressed many of the data security problems 
identified. 

The LSA concluded that the infringements constituted a serious 
failure to comply with the GDPR. The LSA decided to impose an 
administrative fine of GBP 20,000,000 on the controller after 
having taken into account a range of mitigating factors and the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.  

Personal data breach / Administrative fines 

LSA: United Kingdom SA 

Year of decision: 2020 

The personal data breach in this instance related to exposed 
personal  details,  such  as  names,  payment  card  numbers, 
expiration  dates  and  CVV  numbers.  9,400,000  EEA  data 
subjects, of whom 1,500,000 were in the UK, were notified as 
having been potentially affected by the personal data breach. 
The  personal  data  breach  related  to  compromised  bankcard 
details  and  transaction  fraud  on  bank  accounts.  One  bank 
suggested  that  around  60,000  individuals’  card  details  had 
been compromised, while another bank suggested that around 

EDPB Annual Report  20206,000 payment cards had needed to be replaced as result of the 
controller’s transaction fraud. The controller received around 
997 complaints from individuals claiming economic loss and/
or emotional distress. The controller was not able to provide a 
detailed analysis of the individuals affected to the SA. 

The  LSA  found  that  the  controller  had  failed  to  process 
personal data in a manner that ensured appropriate security of 
the personal data, including protection against unauthorised or 
unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction 
or  damage,  using  appropriate  technical  and  organisational 
measures  as  required  by  Art.  5(1)(f)  and  Art.  32  GDPR.  In 
addition,  the  LSA  found  that  the  controller  failed  to  detect 
and  remediate  the  breach  in  a  timely  manner  or  provide  a 
fully  detailed  analysis  of  the  individuals  affected  to  the  LSA 
within 72 hours of having detected the personal data breach. 
Furthermore, the LSA considered mitigation factors, such as 
the fact that the controller forced password resets across all 
its  domains  and  created  a  website  where  customers  could 
access information about the personal data breach. 

In view of the above, the LSA imposed an administrative fine of 
GBP 1,250,000 on the controller. 

Personal data breach / Security of processing 
/ Administrative fines 

LSA: United Kingdom SA 

Year of decision: 2020 

The controller for the data processing activity at stake acquired 
a company whose IT systems were infiltrated by an attacker 
before  the  acquisition.  The  controller  was  not  aware  of  the 
infiltration during the acquisition, nor did it become aware of 
this afterwards. The controller realised the infiltration once the 
attacker triggered an alert in relation to, amongst others, a table 
containing  cardholder  data.  The  attacker  appeared  to  have 
obtained personal data in both an encrypted and unencrypted 

form.  The  unencrypted  personal  data  contained  data  from 
the guest profile, including reservation and consumption data 
of  customers,  while  the  encrypted  information  contained 
18,500,000  encrypted  passport  numbers  and  9,100,000 
encrypted  payment  cards.  Subsequently, 
the  controller 
informed  the  data  subjects  and  took  steps  to  mitigate  the 
effects of the attack. Finally, the controller notified the LSA of 
the personal data breach. 

The LSA investigated the case and found that the controller did 
not ensure appropriate technical and organisational measures 
to ensure an appropriate level of security as required by Art. 
5(1)(f) and Art. 32 GDPR. In particular, the LSA found that the 
controller did not sufficiently monitor the privileged accounts 
and the databases. In addition, the LSA found that the controller 
failed  to  ensure  that  the  actions  taken  on  its  systems  were 
monitored appropriately and that the controller did not apply 
encryption to all the passport numbers, as it should have.  

The LSA, considering the relevant mitigating factors, imposed 
an administrative fine of GBP 18,400,000 on the controller. 

61

EDPB Annual Report  2020Request to erasure / Identity authentication 

LSA: French SA 

Year of decision: 2019 

The  complainant  stated  that  the  right  to  erasure  had  been 
refused  by  the  controller.  The  controller  requested  a  scan 
of  the  complainant’s  identity  document  and  their  signature, 
although  neither  of  the  two  were  required  upon  creating  the 
relevant account. 

The  LSA  found  that  the  controller  systematically  requested 
that  individuals  provide  a  copy  of  an  identity  document  for 
exercising their rights, regardless of their country of residence 
and without providing a basis for reasonable doubts as to the 
identity of the complainant according to Art. 12(6) GDPR. As 
such, the LSA found that the controller required disproportionate 
information for the purpose of verifying the identity of the data 
subject. The SA stated that it is disproportionate to require a 
copy  of  an  identity  document  where  the  claimant  has  made 
their request where they are already authenticated. An identity 
document may be requested if there is a suspicion of identity 
theft or account piracy, for instance. 

In  addition,  the  LSA  underlined  that  a  controller  may  only 
store information needed for the exercise of individuals’ rights 
until the end of the applicable legal limitation periods. During 
this  period,  the  data  have  to  be  subject  to  an  “intermediary” 
archiving on a support base separate from the active base with 
restricted access to authorised persons.  

The LSA issued a reprimand against the controller. 

6.1.4.2.  Other cases on the interpretation 

of GDPR provisions  

Lawfulness of the processing 

LSA: North Rhine-Westphalia SA 

Year of decision: 2018 

The complainant stated they received postal advertising and 
tried to exercise their right of access and right to erasure. The 
complainant  contacted  their  local  SA  as  they  deemed  that 
the controller was wrongfully processing their personal data. 
The data used by the controller was collected from a publicly 
accessible register. 

The LSA underlined that recital 47 and Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR provide 
for  the  possibility  for  data  controllers  to  rely  on  legitimate 
interest  for  the  processing  of  personal  data  for  marketing 
purposes.  As  the  data  were  already  publicly  accessible, 
the  LSA  argued  that  the  data  subject  did  not  present  any 
prevailing fundamental rights and freedoms, and neither were 
prevailing  rights  and  freedoms  apparent.  The  LSA  decided 
that  the  processing  of  publicly  available  personal  data  for 
direct  marketing  purposes  may  constitute  lawful  processing 
according to Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR.  

Regarding the data subject requests, the original access and 
erasure requests were filed before 25 May 2018 and Arts. 13 
and 14 GDPR were thus not yet applicable. The LSA underlined 
that  these  articles  require  data  controllers  to  inform  data 
subjects of which source the personal data originate. The LSA 
requested that the controller provide this information for future 
advertising mail. 

The LSA concluded that there was no GDPR infringement. 

62

EDPB Annual Report  2020Interpretation of Art. 24 GDPR 

Request for access / Identity authentication 

LSA: Czech SA  

Year of decision: 2019 

LSA: Brandenburg SA 

Year of decision: 2019 

A complaint was filed with a CSA concerning the processing 
of personal data of the users of antivirus software provided by 
the controller, and specifically the protection granted to users 
of the free version of the software compared to that granted to 
the paying users. 

In its inspection report, the LSA concluded that the inspected 
party  failed  to  comply  with  Art.  5(2)  and  Art.  24(1)  GDPR. 
This  was  interpreted  as  the  obligation  to  take  into  account 
all  relevant  circumstances  surrounding  the  processing  and 
to  adopt  a  set  of  measures  to  ensure  that  all  personal  data 
processing 
is  carried  out  exclusively  under  pre-defined 
conditions  that  the  controller  is  able  to  regularly  check  and 
enforce. This stemmed from the conclusion – based on Court 
of Justice of the EU jurisprudence - that the inspected party, 
despite its assertions to the contrary, was indeed processing 
personal data (such as IP addresses) and was acting as a data 
controller.  

The controller filed several objections to the inspection report, 
arguing,  amongst  others,  that  no  processing  of  personal 
data was involved, that it was not a data controller, and that 
sufficient  information  to  properly  show  compliance  with  Art. 
5(2) and Art. 24(1) GDPR was provided. The last objection was 
partially  accommodated  by  the  LSA,  which  concluded  that 
only an infringement of Art. 24(1) GDPR had been ascertained, 
whereas no specific breach of Art. 5(2) GDPR followed from 
the documentation. 

The controller was found to have violated Art. 24(1) GDPR. 

The  complainant  requested  access  to  his  personal  data 
processed  by  the  controller.  The  controller  verified  the  data 
subject’s identity, and subsequently informed the complainant 
that  his  account  had  been  suspended  due  to  a  discrepancy 
between  the  information  concerning  the  age  on  his  account 
and the information he had provided for the verification of his 
identity for the request. Since he was 15 years old at the time 
and thus a minor, he was also asked to send parental consent, 
a copy of his identity card and a birth certificate to access his 
personal data. The complainant filed a complaint to the CSA 
on  the  understanding  that  the  information  he  had  provided 
for the verification process was wrongly used to suspend his 
account instead of being used for the process of giving access 
to personal information. 

The controller underlined that at the time of the request there 
was no standardised process in place within the company for 
requests by minors, since the contractual relationship between 
the  controller  and  the  data  subjects  depends  on  the  fact 
that the data subjects are adults. Shortly after the controller 
requested additional documentation for parental consent, this 
request was set aside and access to personal data was given 
to the complainant. Finally, further measures were taken by the 
controller to improve the data access process. 

63

EDPB Annual Report  2020The LSA decided that the request for information was answered 
in due time and the controller’s verification process had been 
modified in a suitable manner. The LSA therefore found that 
there was no infringement of the GDPR. 

Lawfulness of publication - legitimate interest 

LSA: Czech SA  

 

Year of decision: 2019 

The data subject filed a complaint with one of the CSAs alleging 
that  the  controller  published  his  personal  data  on  its  social 
media  page  without  a  legal  basis.  The  controller  published 
information  concerning  the  complainants  and  other  data 
subjects, referring to debts that the controller was in charge of 
collecting, on its social media page. The abbreviated first name 
and  the  entire  surname  of  the  data  subjects,  as  well  as  the 
status of debtor and the amount owed by them were specified.  

The controller argued it did this on the basis of its legitimate 
interest.  The  LSA  provided  a  detailed  assessment  of  the 
conditions  for  legitimate  interest  to  be  a  lawful  legal  basis. 
According to the LSA, the controller’s legitimate interests must 
first of all be lawful, i.e., in compliance with legal regulations, 
and  clearly  formulated  (not  speculative).  These  legitimate 
interests  also  include  economic  interests,  i.e.,  interest  in 
securing  the  economic  side  of  its  business  operations.  The 
processing  must  also  be  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the 
legitimate interests of the respective controller or third party, 
i.e., it is not possible to achieve the same result by processing 
a  narrower  scope  of  personal  data  or  infringing  the  data 
subjects’ rights to a lesser degree. Finally, the interests or rights 
and freedoms of the data subjects should not take precedence 
over the alleged legitimate interests. The LSA explained that in 
this assessment it is also necessary to take into account the 
nature and importance of the controller’s legitimate interests, 
the impact of the respective processing on the data subjects, 

including the data subjects’ reasonable expectations and any 
other protective measures applied by the controller.  

The  LSA  decided  that  the  controller  had  other  less  intrusive 
means to fulfil its interests. In addition, the interests and rights 
of  the  data  subject  prevailed  over  those  interests,  given  the 
significant risk of adverse impact arising from the publication 
of  negative  information  about  the  data  subjects’  financial 
situation. Such information could lead to the social exclusion 
of such persons and their family members, loss of employment 
and other negative implications. Moreover, data subjects had 
reasonable expectations of data not being disclosed.  

As  a  result,  the  LSA  considered  that  the  interests  of  the 
controller  or  any  third  parties  were  outweighed  by  the  data 
subject’s  interests  and  basic  rights  and  freedoms  requiring 
protection of personal data. The LSA ordered the controller to 
cease  processing  of  the  complainant’s  personal  data  and  to 
remove the published personal data within 10 business days 
of the decision. The LSA also ordered the controller to submit 
a report to the LSA on the implementation of the order within 
five business days of its completion. 

Data subject rights 

LSA: Hessen SA  

Year of decision: 2019 

The  complainant  filed  a  complaint  with  the  CSA  contending 
that  the  controller  did  not  comply  with  his  access  request 
within the one-month period, as established in Art. 12(3) GDPR.  

When  contacted  by  the  LSA,  the  controller  explained  that 
the  number  and  complexity  of  the  data-related  customer 
queries  at  the  time  of  the  request  justified  an  extension  of 
the  one-month  period.  Additionally,  by  mistake,  no  notice  of 
the  extension  had  been  sent  to  the  complainant  within  the 
deadline. However, shortly after the deadline, the controller did 

64

EDPB Annual Report  2020send the complainant a notice of the extension. The access 
request was complied with within the extended timeframe.   

The LSA found that there was an infringement of Art. 15 GDPR 
since  the  controller  did  not  comply  with  the  complainant’s 
access  request  in  the  established  timeframe  and  issued  a 
reprimand  to  the  controller.  However,  the  LSA  considered 
that  the  controller  had  cooperated  with  the  LSA  during  the 
investigation  and  notified  the  complainant  of  the  justified 
need  for  an  extended  timeframe  shortly  after  the  due  date 
and  answered  the  request  within  the  extended  timeframe. 
Therefore, the LSA decided not to take any further measures 
against the controller.  

Interpretation of Art. 12(6) GDPR concerning 
identity authentication 

LSA: Danish SA  

Year of decision: 2019 

The complainant requested to have his personal data deleted 
from  the  controller’s  database.  The  controller  replied  that, 
before processing his erasure request, a proof of identification 
was  necessary  to  confirm  his  identity.  As  the  complainant 
refused to comply with the controller’s demand, his data was 
not deleted. 

The  LSA  found  that  the  controller’s  procedure  under  which 
identification validation was required without exception when 
processing  a  data  subject’s  request  was  not  in  conformity 
with Art. 12(6) and Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR. The LSA also found that, 
under the controller’s procedure, data subjects had to provide 
more information than initially collected in order to have their 
request  processed.  Consequently,  the  controller’s  procedure 
for  identification  validation  went  beyond  what  was  required 
and  made  it  burdensome  for  data  subjects  to  exercise  their 
rights. 

The  LSA  decided  that  the  processing  was  not  done  in 
accordance with Art. 12(6) and Art. 5(1)(c) GDPR. It ordered the 
controller to decide within two weeks whether the conditions 
for  erasure  present  in  Art.  17  GDPR  were  met  and,  if  so,  to 
delete the complainant’s data. 

Adequately 
securing their data 

informing  data  subjects  and 

LSA: French SA  

Year of decision: 2019 

The LSA conducted two on-site investigations at the controller’s 
premises to audit the controller’s compliance with the GDPR 
and tested the procedure set up by the controller to create an 
account. 

The controller is a company offering subscriptions to educational 
magazines  for  children.  On  the  basis  of  the  investigation, 
the  LSA  found  several  GDPR  infringements.  First,  several 
breaches of the obligation to inform data subjects, enshrined 
in  Art.  12  and  Art.  13  GDPR,  were  identified.  No  information 
relating to data protection nor a link to the controller’s Terms 
and Conditions was given to data subjects upon registration 
or when placing an order. As a consequence, the information 
was considered to be not accessible enough. The Terms and 
Conditions did not include any information on the legal basis 
for processing, the retention period and the individual rights to 
restriction of processing, data portability, or to submit a claim 
to an SA. Although the target audience was French-speaking 
and the website is fully in French, the “unsubscribe” button in 
the newsletter and marketing emails was hyperlinked to a text 
in English, asking for confirmation. An additional hypertext link 
was included in the final page (titled “Clicking here”). The LSA 
considered this link misleading for the users, as clicking on it 
actually resulted in a new subscription. 

Second, a breach of the obligation to comply with the request 

65

EDPB Annual Report  2020to erase data was identified, as personal data was not erased 
systematically when requested by data subjects although there 
was no legal requirement to keep it and although users had been 
informed of the erasure of the data. Third, there was a breach 
of  the  obligation  to  ensure  the  security  of  data,  concerning 
passwords, locking of workstations and access to data. More 
specifically,  the  password  requirements  and  methods  for 
processing  the  passwords  were  found  to  be  non-compliant 
with the obligation to implement technical and organisational 
measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk, 
since  authentication  was  based  on  insufficiently  complex 
passwords  and  obsolete  hash  algorithms.  Additionally,  the 
computer  used  by  one  of  the  database’s  administrators 
was  configured  to  never  automatically  lock  or  go  on  sleep 
mode. With regard to access to data, the absence of specific 
identification  (i.e.,  the  use  of  the  same  account  by  several 
people) made it impossible to ensure access traceability. 

The LSA ordered the controller to comply, within two months 
of  the  notification  of  the  decision,  with  several  specific 
instructions.  First,  the  controller  was  ordered  to  provide  full 
information  to  data  subjects  about  the  processing  activities 
in an easily accessible manner. Additionally, the LSA ordered 
the controller to set up a procedure for unsubscribing that is 
compliant with Art. 12 and Art. 21 GDPR. Second, the controller 
was  ordered  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  all  requests  to 
exercise the right of erasure. Third, the authority ordered the 
controller  to  take  appropriate  security  measures  to  protect 
personal  data  and  prevent  access  thereto  by  unauthorised 
third  parties  by  setting  up  a  new  password  policy,  avoiding 
the  transmission  of  passwords  in  clear  text,  ensuring  that 
workstations  go  on  sleep  mode  and  setting  up  individual 
accounts. 

66

Lawfulness of data processing 

LSA: French SA  

Year of decision: 2020 

The  complainants  encountered  difficulties  exercising  their 
right  to  object  to  direct  marketing  and  rights  of  access  and 
portability.  

The LSA found out during the investigation that an incident arose 
during the migration of the controller’s consent management 
tool  for  marketing  communications,  causing  consents  not 
given/withdrawn considered as given/not withdrawn, and the 
users’ communication preferences not to be taken into account 
in the controller’s communication campaigns.  

Although the LSA noted that the problem had been solved and 
that the users’ communication preferences had been restored, 
it stemmed from this incident that, before the migration of its 
consent management tool, the controller had not implemented 
the necessary measures as required by Art. 24 GDPR. 

The LSA also found that the controller’s procedure to process 
access  requests  was  not  fully  compliant  with  Art.  32  GDPR. 
Indeed, the LSA noted that, in the absence of a client account, 
the  username  and  password  for  connection  to  content 
containing  personal  data  were  sent  to  data  subjects  via  the 
same channel. The LSA stated that it was the controller’s duty 
to communicate the username and password for connection 
via two different communication channels. 

As  such,  the  controller  was  asked  to  modify  this  procedure. 
The  LSA  determined  that  the  controller  had  improved  the 
procedures to handle data subject rights requests and trained 
employees on such procedures. 

The LSA issued a reprimand to the controller. 

EDPB Annual Report  2020Data subject rights in the context of marketing 

Right to object / Right to erasure  

LSA: Hungarian SA  

Year of decision: 2020 

LSA: Austrian SA  

Year of decision: 2020 

The  complainant  lodged  a  complaint  against  the  controller 
with  one  of  the  CSAs  after  receiving  unsolicited  marketing 
messages. The complainant asked to unsubscribe on several 
occasions without success.  

The  LSA  requested  that  the  complainant  make  a  statement 
within  eight  days  to  disclose  his  identity  to  the  controller  in 
the course of the procedure, warning that without disclosing 
his identity, the investigation could not be conducted. The LSA 
also  requested  a  copy  of  the  erasure  request  addressed  to 
the controller, as well as copies of any other communication 
and  correspondence  with  the  controller  and  the  controller’s 
response to the erasure request. 

The  LSA  repeated  this  request  a  number  of  months  later  as 
there was no response from the complainant. In the absence 
of  a  response,  the  LSA  examined  the  documents  made 
available to it by the CSA. It was not possible to establish from 
the screenshots enclosed when the complainant unsubscribed 
from  the  controller’s  newsletter  or  on  how  many  occasions. 
The  documents  were  not  dated,  and  email  addresses  were 
not  visible  or  available.  The  screenshots  of  the  electronic 
newsletters of the controller did not reveal the addressee nor 
the email address that they were sent to. 

As the complainant’s request remained unverified, no decision 
establishing an infringement was made. The LSA rejected the 
complaint without an investigation of merit. 

The complainant informed the CSA that he had been receiving 
advertising emails for months. Attempts to unsubscribe had 
been  unsuccessful  and  appeared  to  generate  further  spam 
emails.  The  complainant  subsequently  contacted  the  CSA 
to  request  assistance  with  enforcing  his  objection  to  the 
unsolicited spam emails. 

The complainant did not contact the controller regarding the 
assertion of his rights as a data subject concerned. The LSA 
considered that, following Art. 12 GDPR, the rights under Art. 
15 to Art. 22 GDPR require a request by the data subject. Such 
requests  for  information  or  objection  were  not  made  to  the 
controller.  Therefore,  the  complaint  was  dismissed  and  the 
CSA to which the complaint was submitted was called to take 
the final decision in accordance with Art. 60(8) GDPR and to 
notify the complainant and the controller. 

Right of access 

LSA: Cypriot SA  

Year of decision: 2020 

The complainant sent an email to the controller requesting the 
closure of his account and access to his data on the basis of 
Art. 15 GDPR. According to the complainant, the controller did 
not reply to the access request, so he lodged a complaint with 
the SA.   

The LSA found that the email sent by the complainant, wherein 
he requested access to his data, was never received as it was 
flagged by the email security service and categorised as spam 
due to the applied information security IT measures for emails 

67

EDPB Annual Report  2020received  from  outside  the  controller.  The  account  manager 
who also received the email assumed that it had an informative 
character  and  was  under  processing,  since  the  established 
procedure for an account closure is to be forwarded only to the 
team responsible for this (Customer Support Team).  

Since  the  controller  affirmed  that  it  was  working  with  the  IT 
department to find a solution to avoid similar incidents in the 
future and that it planned on organising training sessions for 
staff that interact with the clients, the LSA decided not to take 
further actions regarding this matter. 

6.1.5.  Mutual assistance 

 

The  mutual  assistance  procedure  allows  SAs  to  ask  for 
information  from  other  SAs  or  to  request  other  measures 
for  effective  cooperation,  such  as  prior  authorisations  or 
investigations.

Mutual assistance can be used for cross-border cases subject 
to the OSS procedure, either as part of the preliminary phase, to 
gather the necessary information before drafting a decision or 
for national cases with a cross-border component. 

The IMI enables the use of either informal mutual assistance 
without  any  legal  deadline  or  the  use  of  formal  mutual 
assistance.  In  the  latter  case,  according  to  the  GDPR,  the 
SA  from  which  information  has  been  requested  has  a  legal 
deadline of one month to reply.

Between 1 January 2020 and 31 December 2020, SAs initiated 
246 formal mutual assistance procedures. They initiated 2,258 
informal such procedures. 

6.1.6.  Joint operations

The  GDPR  allows  SAs  to  carry  out  joint  investigations  and 
joint enforcement measures. Similar to the Mutual Assistance 

68

procedure, SAs can use joint operations in the context of cross-
border  cases  subject  to  the  OSS  procedure,  or  for  national 
cases with a cross-border component. 

In 2020, SAs carried out one joint operation.1 

6.2. 

NATIONAL CASES  

SAs  have  different  investigative,  advisory  and  corrective 
measures  at  their  disposal  to  ensure  entities  within  their 
countries apply data protection law correctly and consistently. 
Such measures include the following: 

•  Issuing  warnings  to  a  controller  or  processor  where  its 

intended  processing  operations  are  likely  to  infringe  the 
GDPR;  

•  Issuing  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  processor  where 
•  Ordering the controller or processor to comply with a data 

processing operations have infringed the GDPR;  

subject’s  request  or  to  bring  processing  operations  into 
compliance with the GDPR;  

•  Imposing processing limitations, bans or fines. 

6.2.1.  Some relevant national cases with 

exercise of corrective powers 

SAs play a key role in safeguarding individuals’ data protection 
rights. They can do this through exercising corrective powers. 
The  EDPB  website  includes  a  selection  of  SA  supervisory 
actions. This  section  of  the  Annual  Report  contains  a  non-
exhaustive list of certain enforcement actions in different EEA 
countries. Several cases highlighted a lack of proper technical 
and  organisational  measures  for  processing  personal  data 
securely, which led to data breaches. Many other cases revolved 
around  data  processing  without  a  data  subject’s  consent. 
Some  significant  incidents  involved  the  unlawful  processing 
of  special  categories  of  personal  data,  such  as  health  data. 
Numerous  cases  also  involved  data  subjects  who  could  not 

EDPB Annual Report  2020effectively exercise their rights, such as the right of access, the 
right to erasure and the right to object to a processing act. The 
entities fined were from both the private and the public sectors. 

6.2.1.1.  Austria

The Austrian SA carried out multiple investigations and gave 
several  warnings  during  2020.  For  example,  the  SA  carried 
out  investigations  into  various  data  controllers  that  operate 
customer  loyalty  programmes.  The  controllers  were  seeking 
the  consent  of  data  subjects  to  process  their  personal  data 
for the purpose of profiling and to personalise advertising. The 
request for consent was placed at the end of the registration 
form  of  the  customer  loyalty  programme.  Among  other 
things,  it  was  ruled  that  the  requested  consent  was  invalid 
as  an  average  data  subject  would  assume  that  a  signature 
field  placed  at  the  end  of  a  customer  loyalty  programme 
registration form is a signature to confirm the registration for 
the programme and not a signature to provide the consent for 
the processing of personal data. The controllers appealed this 
formal decision, meaning the case is still pending before the 
respective Austrian courts.  

The  Austrian  SA  also  carried  out  investigations  into  the 
Public Employment Service of Austria (AMS). The AMS used 
an  algorithm  to  evaluate  the  employment  opportunities  of 
unemployed people. It was ruled that there was no sufficient 
legal basis for using such programmes and that the personal 
data processing of unemployed people for this purpose was 
unlawful.  The  AMS  appealed  this  formal  decision  and  the 
Austrian Federal Administrative Court subsequently ruled that, 
contrary  to  the  opinion  of  the  Austrian  SA,  a  sufficient  legal 
basis exists for this processing. The case is currently pending 
before the Austrian Administrative High Court.  

the  context  of  the  electronic  COVID-19  vaccination  passport 
were likely to violate the GDPR. The scope of the encroachments 
on  the  fundamental  right  to  data  protection  were  not  clear 
from the legislation itself, however, provisions relating to the 
vaccination passport did not meet certain GDPR requirements, 
particularly with regard to transparency, the allocation of roles, 
data subject rights and statistical evaluations.  

6.2.1.2.  Belgium 

The Belgian SA published 31 decisions in 2020. This section 
lists some key decisions. 

On  29  May,  the  Belgian  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  EUR  1,000  on 
a controller for not responding to a request from a citizen to 
object  to  the  processing  of  his  data  for  marketing  purposes 
and for not collaborating with the SA. 

On 8 June, the Litigation Chamber of the Belgian SA issued a 
fine of EUR 5,000 to a candidate in local elections for using the 
staff registry of a Municipality to send election propaganda, in 
the form of a letter, to staff members. The Belgian Municipality 
in question filed the complaint against the candidate. 

On 16 June, the Belgian SA imposed a fine of EUR 1,000 on 
an  association  that,  on  the  basis  of  its  legitimate  interest 
according to Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR, sent direct marketing messages 
to  former  and  current  donors  for  its  fundraising efforts. The 
administrative fine was imposed following a complaint lodged 
with the Belgian SA by a former donor of the association as the 
association had not complied with the request for data erasure 
addressed by the individual to the data controller pursuant to 
the right to erasure and the right to object to processing. The 
Litigation Chamber thus decided that the data controller had 
infringed multiple GDPR provisions. 

On  11  November,  the  Austrian  SA  issued  a  warning  to  the 
Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer 
Protection nothing that the intended processing operations in 

On 19 June, the Belgian SA issued a fine of EUR 10,000 to a 
controller for sending a direct marketing message to the wrong 
person and for not responding adequately to the data subject’s 

69

EDPB Annual Report  2020subsequent request for access to his data.  

On  14  July,  the  Belgian  SA  imposed  a  EUR  600,000  fine  on 
Google  Belgium  for  not  respecting  the  right  to  erasure  of  a 
Belgian  citizen,  and  for  a  lack  of  transparency  in  its  request 
form to delist. 

On 30 July, telecom operator Proximus was fined EUR 20,000 
for  several  data  protection  infringements  regarding  personal 
data processing for the purpose of publishing public telephone 
directories. 

On  8  September,  the  SA  issued  a  warning  and  reprimand 
to  a  regional  public  environmental  institution  for  wrongful 
processing  of  personal  data  from  the  National  Register. 
The  Litigation  Chamber  of  the  Belgian  SA  may  not  impose 
an  administrative  fine  on  a  Belgian  public  institution  or  any 
other  government  body  as  this  was  excluded  by  the  Belgian 
legislator. 

On 24 November, the Belgian SA issued a fine of EUR 1,500 
for  unlawful  processing  of  personal  data  through  a  video 
surveillance system. The Belgian SA also concluded that the 
positioning of the cameras in the video system constituted an 
infringement of the data protection by design principle.  

6.2.1.3.  Bulgaria  

The  Bulgarian  SA  experienced  an  increase  in  the  number 
of  complaints  received  and  the  actions  taken  in  2020.  The 
Bulgarian  SA  issued  a  total  of  426  decisions  as  a  result  of 
complaints it handled, and imposed administrative sanctions 
amounting  to  a  total  of  BGN  518,700  (EUR  265,207).  Most 
violations were made by data controllers processing personal 
data via established video surveillance systems as well as in 
the sphere of telecommunication services, media, banks and 
marketing companies. This section expands upon a selection 
of interesting cases.  

70

•  Several  cases  concerned  political  parties  or  other 

organisations, which were involved in the procedure set for 
organising the EU parliamentary and local elections, where 
they submitted lists with supporters to participate in the 
elections  and  did  not  set  clear  procedures  for  verifying 
the  personal  identification  data  entered  in  the  list,  thus 
allowing falsification of signatures and the misuse of the 
Unified Civil Number of Bulgarian citizens. Since the cases 
concerned one or two individuals, the lack of procedure did 
not affect a large number of citizens, however in some of 
cases the parties in question had already been sanctioned 
for similar violations; 

•  A  communal  services  provider  was  sanctioned  for 

misusing  an  individual’s  personal  data  in  case  of  debt 
insolvency, which led to the involvement of a private bailiff 
and a consequent payroll seizure. When imposing the fine, 
the  Bulgarian  SA  considered  the  serious  adverse  effect 
suffered from the individual as a result of the violation and 
negligence with which the individual’s personal data was 
handled by the employee and the practice on similar cases 
with the same type of violations; 

•  A  magistrate,  being  a  public  person,  issued  a  complaint 

about  the  publishing  of  a  document,  submitted  by  him 
by  electronic  media,  without  blurring  his  signature.  In 
this case, the Bulgarian SA stated that despite the clear 
role of the electronic media as a provider of information 
for  public  interest  purposes,  leaving  the  signature  of 
the  public  person  had  no  added  value  and  thus  should 
have  been  blurred  by  the  controller  when  publishing  the 
provided  document.  The  SA  also  considered  that  the 
violation was not the first one for this electronic media and 
the  person  concerned  suffered  negative  consequences. 
The Bulgarian SA imposed an administrative sanction on 
the data controller and ordered it to bring its processing 
operations into compliance with the GDPR by minimising 
the published data; 

•  The  Bulgarian  SA  handled  a  case  about  the  requested 

erasure  of  a  businessman’s  arrest  photos,  published  by 
the media, who was acquitted by the court for corruption; 
 
 

EDPB Annual Report  2020•  Another case pertained to the dissemination of personal 

data by a state authority in connection with a corruption 
signal submitted to it; 

•  The Bulgarian SA also handled a case about a person who 

served a prison sentence and, once the 10-year statute of 
limitations  expired,  requested  erasure  of  their  personal 
data due to the expired public interest. 

6.2.1.4.  Cyprus 

The Cypriot SA fined LGS Handling Ltd, Louis Travel Ltd and 
Louis Aviation Ltd (Louis Group of Companies) EUR 82,000 for 
the lack of legal basis of the “Bradford Factor” tool, which was 
an automated tool used to score the sick leave of employees. 
The Cypriot SA launched an investigation after the employees’ 
trade union lodged a complaint. Importantly, it had not been 
established  that  the  legitimate  interest  of  the  controller 
overrode the interests, rights and freedoms of its employees.  

On 17 June, the Cypriot SA imposed a fine of EUR 15,000 on 
the Bank of Cyprus Public Company Ltd for the loss of a client’s 
data, which specifically infringed Arts. 5(1)(f), 5(2), 15, 32 and 
33 GDPR.  

6.2.1.5.  Czech Republic 

The  Czech  SA  fined  a  used  car  dealer  CZK  6,000,000  for 
repeatedly sending unsolicited commercial communications. 
This  was  the  highest  fine  the  office  imposed  for  this  kind 
of  breach.  The  company  continually  distributed  electronic 
commercial  communications  to  recipients  who  had  not 
granted consent.  

6.2.1.6.  Denmark 

Unlike  in  other  EEA  jurisdictions  where  the  SAs  have  the 
authority to issue administrative fines themselves, in Denmark, 

the Danish SA first investigates a data protection legal violation 
and then reports it to the police. The police then investigate 
whether  there  are  grounds  for  raising  a  charge  and  finally  a 
court decides on a possible fine. 

In June, the Danish SA proposed that the Municipality of Lejre 
be fined DKK 50,000 for  failing to comply  with its obligation 
as  a  data  controller  to 
implement  appropriate  security 
measures. Its department called the Centre for Children and 
Young  People  had  a  fixed  practice  where  meeting  minutes 
containing personal information of a sensitive and protected 
nature, including information about citizens under the age of 
18, had been uploaded on the Municipality’s employee portal 
where a large part of the employees could access this. In July, 
the Danish SA reported ARP-Hansen Hotel Group to the police 
and proposed a fine of DKK 1,100,000 for the failure to delete 
approximately  500,000  customer  profiles,  thus  violating  the 
storage limitation requirement in Art. 5(1)(e) GDPR.  

In  December,  the  Danish  SA  reported  the  Municipality  of 
Guldborgsund  to  the  police  and  proposed  a  fine  of  DKK 
50,000.  The  Municipality  had  mistakenly  sent  a  decision  via 
Digital  Post  containing  information  about  the  complainant’s 
child’s place of residence to the complainant’s child’s father, 
even  though  the  father  had  been  deprived  of  custody,  thus 
amounting to a security breach that had major consequences 
for the complainant and the child. The Municipality had failed 
to notify the complainant and the SA of the security breach.  

6.2.1.7.  Estonia  

On 30 November, the Estonian SA granted a warning, with a 
one-day  compliance  deadline  and  a  penalty  of  EUR  100,000, 
to  three  pharmacy  chains  that  had  allowed  people  to  view 
the  current  prescriptions  of  other  people  in  the  e-pharmacy 
environment, without their consent, on the basis of access to 
their personal identification code. 

71

EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020

6.2.1.8.  Finland  

6.2.1.9.  France  

This  section  sets  out  five  pertinent  instances  in  which  the 
Finnish SA imposed fines for violations of data protection law.  

in 

information  provided 

On 18 May, the sanctions board imposed three administrative 
fines.  First,  for  deficiencies 
in 
connection  with  change-of-address  notifications,  the  board 
fined Posti Oy EUR 100,000. Second, because it had neglected 
to  conduct  a  Data  Protection  Impact  Assessment  for  the 
processing  of  employee  location  data,  the  sanctions  board 
imposed  an  administrative  fine  of  EUR  16,000  on  Kymen 
Vesi Oy. Third, the board imposed a fine of EUR 12,500 on a 
company  because  it  had  collected  job  applicants’  personal 
data unnecessarily. 

On 26 May, the Finnish SA imposed an administrative fine on 
Taksi Helsinki Oy for violations of data protection legislation. 
The company had not assessed the risks and effects of personal 
data processing before adopting a camera surveillance system 
that recorded audio and video in its taxis. The Finnish SA noted 
deficiencies in the information provided to customers and the 
documentation  of  personal  data  processing.  The  sanctions 
board imposed an administrative fine of EUR 72,000 on Taksi 
Helsinki.  

In  July,  the  sanctions  board  of  the  Finnish  SA  imposed  an 
administrative  fine  on  Acc  Consulting  Varsinais-Suomi  for 
sending  direct  electronic  marketing  messages  without  prior 
consent  as  well  as  neglecting  the  rights  of  data  subjects. 
The  company  did  not  respond  to  or  implement  the  requests 
concerning the rights of data subjects, and it was not able to 
prove that it had processed personal data legally. The sanctions 
board therefore imposed a financial sanction of EUR 7,000 in 
addition  to  several  corrective  measures  for  the  company  to 
complete.  

72

France  had  several  important  cases  with  comparably  large 
fines in 2020. Such cases pertained to the following entities: 
SPARTOO, Carrefour France and Carrefour Banque, Google LLC 
and Google Ireland Ltd, and Amazon Europe Core. 

In  applying  the  one-stop-shop  mechanism,  the  French  SA 
acted as the LSA in a cross-border enforcement case involving 
thirteen  EEA  countries. The  French  SA  found  that  SPARTOO, 
which  specialises  in  the  online  shoe  sales  sector,  had  failed 
to comply with the following obligations: to adhere to the data 
minimisation  principle;  to  limit  the  data  retention  period;  to 
inform data subjects adequately about how their personal data 
would  be  processed;  and  to  ensure  data  security.  In  August, 
the French SA imposed a fine of EUR 250,000 and issued an 
injunction to the company to comply with the GDPR. 

In November, the French SA issued fines of EUR 2,250,000 to 
Carrefour  France  and  EUR  800,000  to  Carrefour  Banque  for 
violations of data protection law. Most of the violations pertained 
to customer information relating to a loyalty programme and 
the  related  credit  card  (Pass  card). The  companies  failed  in 
their obligation to inform data subjects about data processing 
according  to  Art.  13  GDPR  related  to  joining  the  loyalty 
programme or the Pass card. The information given was not 
easily  accessible,  easily  understandable  or  complete.  The 
companies also failed to adhere to French data protection law 
relating to cookies. The relevant websites installed advertising 
cookies without first obtaining the user’s consent.  

Carrefour France failed to comply with the obligation to limit 
the  data  retention  period  of  its  customers’  personal  data.  It 
also  infringed  its  obligation  to  facilitate  the  exercise  of  data 
subject  rights  and  failed  to  respond  to  certain  requests  for 
access  to  personal  data  and  deletion  requests.  Carrefour 
Banque infringed its obligation to process personal data fairly 
under  Art.  5  GDPR  as  it  processed  more  personal  data  than 
what it had indicated to people subscribing to the Pass card. 

On all points, the companies changed their practices during the 
procedure  and  committed  significant  resources  to  make  the 
necessary  modifications  to  bring  them  into  compliance  with 
the GDPR. 

On 7 December, the French SA fined the companies Google LLC 
and Google Ireland Ltd a total of EUR 100,000,000 for having 
placed advertising cookies on the computers of users of the 
search  engine google.fr,  without  obtaining prior  consent and 
without providing them with adequate information. 

The French SA justified the fines with regard to the seriousness 
of  the  breach  of  the  French  Data  Protection  Act.  It  also 
highlighted the scope of the search engine Google Search in 
France and the fact that the practices of the companies affected 
almost  50  million  users.  It  noted  the  companies  generated 
significant  profits  deriving  from  the  advertising 
income 
indirectly  generated  from  data  collected  by  the  advertising 
cookies. The French SA noted that the companies had stopped 
automatically placing advertising cookies when a user arrived 
on  the  page  google.fr  after  an  update  in  September  2020. 
The  French  SA,  however,  noticed  that  the  new  information 
banner set up by the companies when a user arrived on the 
page google.fr still did not allow the users living in France to 
understand the purposes for which the cookies were used and 
did  not  let  them  know  that  they  could  refuse  these  cookies. 
As  a  consequence,  in  addition  to  the  financial  penalties,  the 
French SA also ordered the companies to adequately inform 
individuals,  in  accordance  with  the  French  Data  Protection 
Act,  within  three  months  of  the  notification  of  the  decision. 
Failing that, the companies must pay a penalty payment of EUR 
100,000 for each day of delay. 

Similar  to  the  Google  enforcement  action,  on  7  December, 
the French SA fined Amazon Europe Core EUR 35,000,000 for 
having placed advertising cookies on users’ computers from 
the page amazon.fr, both without obtaining their prior consent 
and without providing them with adequate information about 

EDPB Annual Report  2020

the personal data processing. The amount of the fine, and the 
decision to make it public, were justified by the seriousness of 
the breaches observed. 

The French SA noted recent developments made on the site 
amazon.fr  and,  in  particular,  the  fact  that  now  no  cookie 
is  placed  before  obtaining  the  user’s  consent.  The  new 
information banner set up, however, still did not allow the users 
living in France to understand that the cookies are mainly used 
to personalise advertisements. Moreover, users were still not 
informed that they could refuse these cookies. In addition to 
the financial penalty, the French SA also ordered the company 
to adequately inform individuals per the French Data Protection 
Act,  within  three  months  of  the  notification  of  the  decision. 
Otherwise, the company must pay a penalty payment of EUR 
100,000 for each day of delay. 

6.2.1.10. Germany  

Germany  has  both  a  national  (federal)  SA  and  regional  SAs. 
Three  noteworthy  cases  involved  enforcement  actions  by 
regional  German  SAs. The  Lower  Saxony  SA  imposed  a  fine 
of  EUR  65,500  on  a  pharmaceutical  manufacturer  for  using 
unsuitable and outdated software components on its website, 
equating to inadequate technical measures for the protection 
of personal data and thus breaching Art. 32(1) GDPR. The Berlin 
SA imposed a fine of EUR 6,000 on the regional association of 
a right-wing political party (the data controller) for the unlawful 
publication of personal data. The Hamburg SA imposed a fine 
of EUR 35,258,708 on H&M for data protection violations. 

6.2.1.11. Greece  

In  response  to  a  complaint,  the  Ηellenic  SA  conducted  an 
investigation  regarding  the 
lawfulness  of  personal  data 
processing  on  a  server  of  the  company  ALLSEAS  MARINE 
S.A. Specifically, the Ηellenic SA investigation covered access 

73

EDPB Annual Report  2020

6.2.1.12. Hungary 

The Hungarian SA issued many fines during 2020. This section 
includes some examples of key cases. 

On 28 May, the Hungarian SA issued a fine of HUF 100,000,000 
to  a  telecommunications  service  provider  for  multiple  GDPR 
infringements.  The  Hungarian  SA  initiated  an  investigation 
following  a  personal  data  breach  of  which  the  company 
notified  the  Hungarian  SA  within  the  72-hour  period  set  out 
by the GDPR. The incident was triggered by the unauthorised 
access to the company’s database, which had been conducted 
and reported in good faith by an ethical hacker. The Hungarian 
SA established that the company infringed provisions in Art. 5 
GDPR, pertaining to purpose limitation and storage limitation, 
by failing to erase a test database. 

In July, the Hungarian SA imposed a total of HUF 4,500,000 in 
data protection fines on Mediarey Hungary Services Zrt., the 
publisher  of  the  Hungarian  Forbes  magazine,  in  two  cases. 
The  fines  pertained  to  the  magazine  failing  to  carry  out  a 
proper interest assessment. It also did not inform various data 
subjects, who appeared in a list of the 50 richest Hungarians, 
of the results of comparing its own legitimate interests with 
that  of  a  third  party  (the  public)  and  of  the  data  subjects 
themselves.  Forbes  also  failed  to  provide  information  to  the 
data subjects about the circumstances of the data processing 
and their data subject rights. 

On  3  September,  a  company  distributing  shoes  was  fined  a 
total  amount  of  HUF  20,000,000.  The  involved  data  subject 
alleged  that  he  received  the  wrong  change  when  buying  a 
pair of shoes and requested that the company let him see the 
shop’s video footage of the exchange, which they did not allow 
without a police warrant; the company eventually deleted the 
footage after the retention period expired. The company failed 
to give its reasons for not letting him view the recordings and 
refused to let him exercise his rights to access and the right to 
restrict processing.  

to and inspection by an employer of an employee’s emails on 
a  company  server;  the  illegal  installation  and  operation  of  a 
closed-circuit video-surveillance system; and infringement of 
the right of access. The Ηellenic SA found that the company 
had a legal right under Art. 5(1) and Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR to carry 
out  an  internal  investigation  that  involved  searching  and 
retrieving  the  employee’s  emails.  It  found,  however,  that  the 
closed-circuit  video-surveillance  system  had  been  installed 
and  operated  illegally  and,  in  addition,  the  recorded  material 
submitted  to  the  Ηellenic  SA  was  considered  illegal.  Finally, 
the Ηellenic SA concluded that the company did not satisfy the 
employee’s right of access to his personal data contained in 
his corporate PC. 

Furthermore,  following  a  complaint  to  the  Hellenic  SA  that 
Public Power Corporation S.A. (PPC) did not satisfy the data 
subject’s right of access to information, the Ηellenic SA issued 
an administrative fine of EUR 5,000 to the company. One month 
after receiving the request, PPC, as a data controller, did not 
provide a response to the complainant regarding the inability to 
immediately meet this right. Given the recurrence of a previous 
similar  infringement  by  PPC,  the  Ηellenic  SA  unanimously 
decided  that  an  effective,  proportionate  and  dissuasive 
administrative fine should be imposed.  

 Ιn another case, the Ηellenic SA examined a complaint against 
a  special  education  centre  for  its  failure  to  satisfy  the  right 
of access exercised by a father, on behalf of his child, in the 
exercise  of  parental  responsibility.  The  controller  had  not 
complied with the Ηellenic SA’s initial request to immediately 
satisfy the applicant’s right of access. The Ηellenic SA issued 
an order to the controller to provide the requested documents 
to the complainant, including tax documents. It also imposed 
an administrative  fine of  EUR  3,000 on  the controller  for  not 
satisfying this right.

 

74

6.2.1.13. Iceland  

Icelandic  SA  decided  to 

On  5  March,  the 
impose  an 
administrative fine of ISK 3,000,000 on the National Centre of 
Addiction  Medicine  (NCAM)  in  a  case  relating  to  a  personal 
data  breach.  The  breach  occurred  when  a  former  employee 
of the NCAM received boxes containing what were supposed 
to be personal belongings that he had left there. It turned out, 
however, that the boxes also contained patient data, including 
health records of 252 former patients and records containing 
the names of approximately 3,000 people who had attended 
rehabilitation for alcohol and substance abuse. The Icelandic SA 
concluded that the breach was a result of the data controller’s 
lack of implementation of appropriate data protection policies 
and  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  to 
protect the data, which constituted a violation of the GDPR, so 
issued the fine. 

In a similar case, also on 5 March, the Icelandic SA decided 
to  impose  an  administrative  fine  of  ISK  1,300,000  on  the 
Breiðholt  Upper  Secondary  School  pertaining  to  a  personal 
data breach. The breach occurred when a teacher at the school 
sent  an  e-mail  to  his  students  and  their  parents/guardians, 
attaching a document that he believed to contain information 
on consultation appointments. However, it contained data on 
the well-being, study performance and social conditions of a 
different  group  of  students;  some  of  the  personal  data  was 
sensitive. The Icelandic SA concluded that the breach resulted 
from a lack of implementation of appropriate data protection 
policies  and  appropriate 
technical  and  organisational 
measures. As such, this amounted to a violation of the GDPR 
and warranted the fine. 

6.2.1.14. Ireland  

On 15 December, the Irish SA announced the conclusion of a 
GDPR investigation it had conducted into Twitter International 

EDPB Annual Report  2020

Company  (TIC).  The  Irish  SA  started  its  investigation  in 
January 2019 following receipt of a breach notification from 
TIC. The Irish SA found that TIC had infringed Arts. 33(1) and 
33(5) GDPR in failing to notify the Irish SA of the breach on 
time and failing to adequately document the breach. The Irish 
SA imposed an administrative fine of EUR 450,000 on TIC as an 
effective, proportionate and dissuasive measure. 

The  draft  decision  in  this  inquiry,  having  been  submitted  to 
other CSAs under Art. 60 GDPR in May, was the first one to go 
through the Art. 65 GDPR (dispute resolution) process since 
the introduction of the GDPR and was the first Draft Decision 
in a “big tech” case on which all EEA SAs were consulted as 
CSAs.  

The  EDPB  has  published  the  Art.  65  GDPR  decision  and  the 
final Irish SA decision on its website. 

6.2.1.15. Italy  

The Italian SA imposed two fines on Eni Gas and Luce (Egl), 
totalling  EUR  11,500,000,  concerning  respectively  the  illicit 
processing  of  personal  data  in  the  context  of  promotional 
activities  and  the  activation  of  unsolicited  contracts.  The 
fines were determined in view of the parameters set out in the 
GDPR, including the wide range of stakeholders involved, the 
pervasiveness of the conduct, the duration of the infringement, 
and  the  economic  conditions  of  Egl.  The  first  fine  of  EUR 
8,500,000  related  to  unlawful  processing  in  connection  with 
telemarketing  and  teleselling  activities.  The  second  fine  of 
EUR 3,000,000 concerned breaches due to the conclusion of 
unsolicited contracts for the supply of electricity and gas under 
free market conditions.

The Italian SA fined TIM SpA (TIM) EUR 27,802,496 on account 
of  several  instances  of  unlawful  processing  for  marketing 
purposes.  Overall,  the 
infringements  concerned  millions 
of  individuals.  TIM  were  proven  to  be  insufficiently  familiar 

75

EDPB Annual Report  2020

with  fundamental  features  of  the  processing  activities  they 
performed,  thus  threatening  accountability.  In  many  cases 
out of the millions of marketing calls that had been placed in 
a  six-month  period  with  non-customers,  the  Italian  SA  could 
establish that the call centre operators relied upon by TIM had 
contacted  the  data  subjects  in  the  absence  of  any  consent. 
Inaccurate, unclear data processing information was provided 
in  connection  with  certain  apps  targeted  at  customers  and 
the  arrangements  for  obtaining  the  required  consent  were 
inadequate. The data breach management system also proved 
ineffective, and no adequate implementation and management 
systems  were  in  place  regarding  personal  data  processing, 
which fell short of privacy by design requirements. As well as 
the fine, the Italian SA imposed 20 corrective measures on TIM, 
including both prohibitions and injunctions. 

On  9  July,  the  Italian  SA  fined  the  telephone  operators  Wind 
Tre  SpA  and  Iliad  about  EUR  17,000,000  and  EUR  800,000, 
respectively.  The  Wind  Tre  SpA  fine  was  issued  on  account 
of  several  instances  of  unlawful  data  processing  that  were 
mostly  related  to  unsolicited  marketing  communications 
made without users’ consent. Some users had been unable to 
withdraw consent or object to the processing of their personal 
data for marketing processes. The Italian SA had already issued 
a  prohibitory  injunction  against  the  company  on  account  of 
similar infringements that had occurred when the previous data 
protection law was in force. The other telephone operator, Iliad, 
had shown shortcomings in particular concerning employees’ 
access to traffic data. 

The  Italian  SA  ordered  Vodafone  to  pay  a  fine  of  more  than 
EUR 12,250,000 on account of having unlawfully processed the 
personal data of millions of users for telemarketing purposes. 
As well as having to pay the fine, the company was required 
to  implement  several  measures  set  out  by  the  Italian  SA  to 
comply with national and EU data protection legislation. 

Furthermore,  pertaining  to  the  private  sector,  the  Italian  SA 
made  two  decisions  providing  for  corrective  measures  and 
administrative  fines.  Related  to  the  public  sector,  the  Italian 
SA issued 20 reprimands and 30 administrative fines without 
corrective measures. Significant cases involved municipalities, 
universities, health care organisations and schools. 

6.2.1.16. Latvia  

The Latvian SA imposed a fine of EUR 15,000 on one of the 
biggest online stores in Latvia (SIA “HH Invest”). The Latvian 
SA  examined  the  content  of  the  website’s  privacy  policy, 
concluding  that  the  information  available  to  data  subjects 
was not in easy-to-understand language and that information 
was  provided  in  a  non-systematic  way.  Furthermore,  it  was 
established  that  certain  aspects  of  the  processing  that  had 
to be explained to the data subject in accordance with Art. 13 
GDPR were not clarified. The administrative fine was imposed 
taking  into  account  the  fact  that  the  online  store  actively 
cooperated with the Latvian SA during the inspection and had 
remedied the non-compliance identified by the Latvian SA. 

The Latvian SA also imposed a fine of EUR 6,250 on a company 
for the improper processing of employee personal data. The 
Latvian  SA  received  a  complaint  about  the  actions  of  the 
employer in sending third persons (other employees) an e-mail 
containing  information  about  the  data  subjects’  names  and 
health conditions, including diagnoses of infectious disease. 
After  investigation,  the  Latvian  SA  found  that  the  relevant 
personal  data  had  been  processed  inappropriately  because 
such processing was not necessary to achieve the employer’s 
objectives and no legal basis under Art. 9 GDPR was applicable 
to  such  processing.  When  imposing  a  fine,  the  Latvian  SA 
considered  that  the  incident  was  an  isolated  incident  and 
that no evidence was found that the company would do this 
systematically.  

76

EDPB Annual Report  2020

6.2.1.17. Lithuania 

In  2020,  the  Lithuanian  SA  imposed  multiple  fines  for  GDPR 
violations.  Most  of  the  fines  were  imposed  because  of 
non-cooperation,  where  the  organisations  involved  in  the 
investigation did not provide the requested information to the 
Lithuanian SA. 

In  April,  the  Lithuanian  SA  carried  out  an  investigation  into 
sound recording in public transport buses. The Lithuanian SA 
fined the private company UAB “Vilniaus viešasis transportas” 
EUR 8,000 for violating Arts. 5, 13, 24 and 35 GDPR.  

imposed  on  a  company  that  required  employees  to 
have  their  fingerprints  scanned  for  time  and  attendance 
registration.  Following  an  investigation,  the  Dutch  SA 
concluded  that  the  company  was  not  authorised  to 
process  its  employees’  fingerprint  data.  The  company 
was  not  entitled  to  invoke  an  exemption  for  processing 
sensitive personal data; 

•  In July, the Dutch SA imposed a fine of EUR 830,000 on the 

National Credit Register (BKR). The BKR had created too 
many obstacles for people wishing to access their data. 
Among other things, the BKR charged people who wished 
access to the personal data that the BKR had about them. 

failed 

In September, the Lithuanian SA reprimanded the Vilnius City 
Municipality Administration for infringements of Arts. 5(1)(d) 
and 5(1)(f) GDPR. Specifically, the Municipality Administration 
had 
technical  and 
organisational measures, thereby failing to ensure the accuracy 
of personal data pertaining to the parents of an adopted child. 
The Lithuanian SA fined the Municipality Administration EUR 
15,000. 

implement  appropriate 

to 

6.2.1.18. The Netherlands 

The Dutch SA imposed seven fines in 2020. Not all these fines 
have been made public, so the Dutch SA may not yet disclose 
the amount of the fines and other details. In addition to these 
fines,  the  Dutch  SA  issued  one  order  subject  to  penalty  and 
took a number of other corrective measures. Some cases are 
listed here: 

•  In  February,  the  Dutch  SA  published  an  order  subject 

to  penalty  directed  at  health  insurance  company  CZ 
because the company processed too much medical data 
for the assessment of applications for reimbursement of 
rehabilitation care; 

•  In March, the Dutch SA fined the tennis association KNLTB 
•  In  April,  the  Dutch  SA  published  a  fine  of  EUR  725,000, 

EUR 525,000 for selling the personal data of its members; 

6.2.1.19. Norway 

The Norwegian SA issued multiple fines in 2020. The Norwegian 
SA carried out the following actions: 

•  Imposed an administrative fine equivalent to EUR 18,870 

on  the  Indre  Østfold  Municipality  due  to  a  breach  of 
confidentiality, where personal data that should have been 
protected was made available to unauthorised persons; 

•  Reprimanded Telenor Norge AS for a lack of personal data 

security in a voice mailbox function, and for failing to notify 
the Norwegian SA of a data breach; 

•  Notified the Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH) of 

its intention to impose a temporary ban on personal data 
processing  in  connection  with  the  Smittestopp  contact 
tracing mobile app. The NIPH temporarily suspended all 
use  of  the  app.  In  August,  the  Norwegian  SA  reached  a 
decision to temporarily ban the processing of personal data 
using the Smittestopp app as it could not be considered 
a proportionate intervention in a user’s fundamental right 
to data protection. The NIPH had already decided to stop 
collecting personal data and to erase the collected data; 

•  Imposed an administrative fine equivalent to EUR 47,500 

on  the  Rælingen  Municipality  after  data  concerning  the 
health of children with special needs was processed using 
the digital learning platform Showbie; 

77

EDPB Annual Report  2020

•  On 9 March, the Polish SA imposed a fine of PLN 20,000 

(EUR 4,600) on Vis Consulting Sp. z o.o., a company from 
the  telemarketing  industry,  for  making  it  impossible  to 
conduct an inspection; 

•  On 29 May, the Polish SA imposed a fine of PLN 15,000 

(EUR  3,500)  in  cross-border  proceedings  on  the  East 
Power  company  from  Jelenia  Góra  for  failing  to  provide 
the  Polish  SA  with  access  to  personal  data  and  other 
information necessary for the performance of its tasks; 

•  On 3 June, the Polish SA imposed a fine of PLN 5,000 (EUR 

1,168) on an individual entrepreneur running a non-public 
nursery  and  pre-school  for  failing  to  provide  the  Polish 
SA  with  access  to  personal  data  and  other  information 
necessary for the performance of its tasks; 

•  On 2 July, the Polish SA imposed a fine of PLN 100,000 

(EUR 23,000) on the Surveyor General of Poland for failing 
to  provide  the  Polish  SA  with  access  to  premises,  data 
processing equipment and means, and access to personal 
data  and  information  necessary  for  the  Polish  SA  to 
perform its tasks during the inspection; 

•  In addition, on 24 August, the Polish SA imposed another 

fine of PLN 100,000 (EUR 23,000) on the Surveyor General 
of  Poland  for  infringing  the  principle  of  lawfulness  of 
personal data processing; 

•  On 21 August, the Polish SA imposed a fine on the Warsaw 

University  of  Life  Sciences  of  PLN  50,000  (EUR  11,500) 
after having found a personal data breach; 

•  On  3  December,  the  Polish  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  PLN 

1,900,000 million (EUR 460,000) on Virgin Mobile Polska for 
not implementing appropriate technical and organisational 
measures to ensure the security of the processed data; 

•  On  9  December,  the  Polish  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  over 

PLN 12,000 (EUR 3,000) on a Smart Cities company from 
Warsaw for not cooperating with the Polish SA; 

•  On  9  December,  the  Polish  SA 

imposed  a  fine  of 
PLN  85,588  (EUR  20,000)  on  WARTA  S.A.  Insurance 
and  Reinsurance  Company  for  failing  to  notify  the 
President  of  the  Polish  SA  of  a  personal  data  breach;  

•  Issued the Norwegian Public Roads Administration a fine 

equivalent to EUR 37,400 for processing personal data for 
purposes that were incompatible with the originally stated 
purposes, and for not erasing video recordings after seven 
days; 

•  Made  final  a  decision  to  issue  an  administrative  fine 

to  the  Bergen  Municipality  equivalent  to  approximately 
EUR  276,000.  This  was  in  response  to  a  data  breach  in 
October  2019  regarding  the  Municipality’s  new  tool  for 
communication  between  school  and  home.  Personal 
information in the communication system was not secure 
enough; 

•  Issued  Odin  Flissenter  AS  with  an  administrative  fine 

equivalent to EUR 13,905 for performing a credit check of 
a sole proprietorship without having a lawful basis for the 
processing; 

•  Decided  on  an  administrative  fee  of  NOK  750,000  for 

the Østfold HF Hospital. During the period from 2013 to 
2019,  the  hospital  stored  report  extracts  from  patient 
records  that  were  not  access  controlled,  so  were  stored 
in a non-secure manner. The case started with a personal 
data breach notification from the hospital. The Norwegian 
SA  considered  that  the  Østfold  HF  Hospital  had  not 
established a system for access control that was sufficient 
to prevent similar breaches from occurring in the future, 
and referred particularly to the routines for access control 
and personal data storage. The management system was 
required to involve follow-up that the routines are followed, 
which also means ensuring that only secure systems are 
used in the processing of sensitive personal data. 

6.2.1.20. Poland  

The President of the Polish SA imposed 11 administrative fines 
in 2020, some of which are listed vbelow: 

•  On  18  February,  the  Polish  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  PLN 

20,000 (EUR 4,600) in connection with a breach consisting 
of the processing of the biometric data of children when 
using the school canteen without a legal basis; 

78

•  On  17  December,  the  Polish  SA  imposed  a  fine  of  over 

PLN  1,000,000  (EUR  250,000)  on  the  ID  Finance  Poland 
company  for  failing  to  implement  appropriate  technical 
and organizational measures. 

6.2.1.21. Portugal 

The Portuguese SA issued several corrective measures within 
its powers under Art. 58 GDPR. In one example, it compelled 
a  controller  in  the  field  of  market  studies  to  delete  a  data 
subject’s personal data.  

In two cases, the Portuguese SA ordered two controllers and 
one  processor,  all  in  the  public  health  sector,  to  bring  data 
processing  into  compliance  with  the  GDPR  and  to  adopt 
specific  measures  to  remedy  the  deficiencies  found  within 
the  context  of  COVID-19  data  processing.  There  were  also 
two  situations  where  the  Portuguese  SA  issued  an  order  to 
temporarily ban data processing until certain conditions were 
met. Both cases related to the collection by web cameras of 
images of people on the beach, which were transmitted online 
in real-time. The two different private data controllers had to 
take  the  appropriate  technical  measures  to  process  images 
with no identifiable individuals. 

The Portuguese SA also imposed a fine on a private company 
for violating the principle of lawfulness. Due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, all sanction proceedings were suspended for four 
months, in accordance with national law. Therefore, although 
some proceedings were ongoing and controllers were already 
notified of a draft decision involving the application of fines, 
there  were  no  more  final  decisions  in  2020  regarding  GDPR 
cases; they only pertained to ePrivacy cases. 

6.2.1.22. Romania  

In  2020,  the  Romanian  SA  conducted  21  enforcement 
measures for violations of the GDPR, as outlined here. 

EDPB Annual Report  2020

•  On 13 January, the Romanian SA fined Hora Credit IFN S.A. 

the equivalent of EUR 14,000 for multiple GDPR violations 
and 
issued  various  corrective  measures  to  ensure 
compliance with the GDPR; 

•  On  14  January,  the  Romanian  SA  sanctioned  SC  Enel 

Energie S.A with two fines amounting to the equivalent of 
EUR 6,000 for violating provisions within Arts. 5, 6, 7 and 
21 GDPR; 

•  On  25  March,  the  Romanian  SA 

imposed  several 
administrative  fines  and  corrective  measures  on  three 
data controllers. The controller Dante Internațional SA was 
sanctioned with an administrative fine of the equivalent of 
EUR  3,000;  the  controller  Association  “SOS  Infertilitatea” 
with  the  equivalent  of  EUR  2,000;  and  the  controller 
Vodafone România SA with the equivalent of EUR 4,100; 

•  On 31 March, the Romanian SA fined Vodafone România 

the equivalent of EUR 3,000 for violating Art. 5 GDPR and 
imposed  corrective  measures  to  ensure  its  compliance 
with the GDP;

•  On 11 June, the Romanian SA imposed two fines: controller 

Estee  Lauder  Romania  SRL  was  sanctioned  with  a  fine 
equivalent to EUR 3,000 for unlawful data processing and 
the controller Telekom Romania Communications SA was 
fined  the  equivalent  of  EUR  3,000  for  not  implementing 
sufficient security measures; 

•  On  18  June,  the  Romanian  SA  found  that  Enel  Energie 

Muntenia  SA  did  not  implement  sufficient  security  and 
confidentiality  measures 
the  accidental 
disclosure of personal data to unauthorised persons and 
fined them the equivalent of EUR 4,000; 

to  prevent 

•  On 9 July, the Romanian SA found that Proleasing Motors 

SRL  had  violated  Art.  32  GDPR  and  subsequently  fined 
them the equivalent of EUR 15,000; 

•  On  27  July,  the  Romanian  SA  fined  SC  CNTAR  TAROM 

SA the equivalent of EUR 5,000 and imposed a corrective 
measure  to  ensure  the  controller  reviewed  and  updated 
the technical and organisational measures it had in place; 
 
 

79

EDPB Annual Report  2020

6.2.1.23. Slovakia 

The Slovak SA fined a primary school EUR 6,000 for breaching 
the principle of lawfulness, principle of accountability and for 
the  failure  to  comply  with  its  obligation  to  handle  the  data 
subjects’ requests to an adequate extent. 

6.2.1.24. Slovenia  

The  Slovenian  SA  often  deals  with  cases  regarding  unlawful 
video  surveillance  in  work  areas.  There  are  some  specific 
provisions  on  video  surveillance  permissibility  in  national 
law, in addition to the GDPR provisions. In one such case, the 
Slovenian SA did not permit video surveillance as a means for 
an employer to constantly monitor the work process by using 
an app on his mobile phone. According to national law, video 
surveillance  within  work  areas  may  only  be  implemented  in 
exceptional cases when it is necessarily required for the safety 
of people or property, or to protect secret data and business 
secrets. 

An  individual  exercised  his  right  to  rectification  regarding 
his  financial  information  in  SISBON,  which  is  a  Slovenian 
information system on credit ratings that is designed for mutual 
exchange and processing of data on natural persons. The Bank 
of Slovenia manages SISBON, and all the banks and most of 
the financial subjects are required to provide information to the 
system. The individual’s demand to rectify the information had 
been denied by the data controller (bank). Later, the primary 
bank was no longer technically able to rectify the data for the 
subject. The new creditor was not a member of SISBON and 
could not rectify the data. The Slovenian SA decided that the 
data  controller  violated  the  individual’s  right  to  rectification 
under  the  GDPR  and  that  technical  rules  on  managing  the 
system  should  enable  individuals  to  exercise  this  right.  
 
 

•  On  30  July,  the  Romanian  SA  imposed  two  fines.  First, 

it  fined  S.C.  Viva  Credit  IFN  S.A.  the  equivalent  of  EUR 
2,000  and 
it 
fined  controller  Compania  Națională  Poșta  Română  the 
equivalent of EUR 2,000; 

imposed  corrective  measures.  Second, 

•  On  1  September,  the  Romanian  SA  sanctioned  the 

Owners’ Association Block FC 5, Năvodari city, Constanța 
county with a fine equivalent to EUR 500; it reprimanded 
the  Owners’  Association  for  failing  to  adhere  to  certain 
provisions  in  the  GDPR;  and  imposed  certain  corrective 
measures; 

•  On  8  September,  the  controller  Sanatatea  Press  Group 

S.R.L. was sanctioned with a fine equivalent to EUR 2,000 
for not adhering to data security measures; 

•  On  1  October,  the  Romanian  SA  fined  Megareduceri  TV 

S.R.L. the equivalent of EUR 3,000 and fined the Owners’ 
Association Militari R, Chiajna village the equivalent of EUR 
2,000 and imposed a corrective measure; 

•  On  15  October,  the  controller  S.C.  Marsorom  S.R.L.  was 
•  On 20 October, the Romanian SA fined controller Globus 

sanctioned with a fine equivalent to EUR 3,000; 

Score SRL the equivalent of EUR 2,000 for failing to fulfil an 
earlier corrective measure and imposed another corrective 
measure; 

•  On  23  November,  the  Romanian  SA  fined  Vodafone 

România  S.A.  the  equivalent  of  EUR  4,000  for  not 
responding to data subject access and erasure requests, 
and issued a corrective measure; 

•  On 24 November, the Romanian SA issued a fine equivalent 

to EUR 5,000 to DADA CREATION S.R.L. for violating Art. 32 
GDPR and reprimanded the controller for infringing Art. 33 
GDPR. The Romanian SA also issued a corrective measure.  
 
 
 
 

80

A parish was processing the application of an individual on the 
right of erasure. The individual requested his personal data be 
erased from the register of births because he was no longer 
a  member  of  the  church.  The  Slovenian  SA  agreed  with  the 
position of the church, confirming that the register is an archive 
document, and the individual may not claim the right to erasure 
when the processing is needed for archiving purposes in the 
public interest. 

The national health insurance fund was sending professional 
cards to users by mail and with personal data printed on the 
envelope (the insurance number, the barcode and the summary 
of  the  consignment).  The  Slovenian  SA  ordered  the  data 
processor  to  restrict  the  listing  of  the  personal  data  on  the 
envelope.  

6.2.1.25. Spain 

The Spanish SA fined the company Iberdrola EUR 4,000 for not 
responding  to  its  request  for  information.  In  short,  Iberdrola 
had  not  provided  the  information  required  and  consequently 
hindered the investigative powers that each Spanish SA has, 
thereby infringing Art. 58(1) GDPR. 

The Spanish SA issued a fine of EUR 1,200 to a company for 
calling the data subject and offering him/her a deal on hotels, 
while  he/she  was  in  an  advertisement  exclusion  system.  By 
joining  this  system,  the  data  subject  had  exercised  his/her 
right  to  object  to  processing  for  marketing  purposes  under 
Art.  21  GDPR.  The  company,  however,  did  not  comply  with 
its obligation to consult the advertisement exclusion system 
before  making  a  telephone  call  with  marketing  purposes  to 
avoid processing certain individuals’ personal data.  

The Spanish SA also fined Vodafone España EUR 75,000 for 
processing  a  claimant’s  telephone  number  for  marketing 
purposes after the claimant had exercised the right to erasure 
in 2015, in spite of which the data subject was sent advertising 

EDPB Annual Report  2020

messages.  The  controller  stated  that  the  claimant  number, 
being easy to remember, had been used as a “dummy number” 
by its employees.  

The Spanish SA imposed also a fine of EUR 70,000 on Xfera 
Móviles  for  disclosing  a  customer’s  personal  data  to  a  third 
party. The SA issued a fine of EUR 75,000 to Telefónica Móviles 
España, S.A.U. for unlawfully processing a claimant’s personal 
data by charging the claimant several invoices corresponding 
to a third person. 

6.2.1.26. Sweden 

The Swedish SA issued multiple fines in 2020. The Swedish SA 
carried out these enforcement acts: 

•  Imposed  an  administrative  fine  of  SEK  75,000,000  on 

Google for failing to comply with the GDPR. As a search 
engine operator, it had not fulfilled its obligations in respect 
to the right to request delisting; 

•  Issued a fine of SEK 200,000 to the National Government 

Service Centre for failing to notify affected parties as well 
as the Swedish SA about a personal data breach in due 
time; 

•  In  response  to  a  complaint,  conducted  an  investigation 

that  showed  that  the  Healthcare  Committee  in  Region 
Örebro County made a mistake when publishing sensitive 
personal  data  about  a  patient  admitted  to  a  forensic 
psychiatric clinic on the region’s website. The Swedish SA 
ordered the Committee to bring its personal data handling 
into compliance with the GDPR and furthermore issued an 
administrative fine of SEK 120,000 against the Committee; 

•  Investigated the use by a co-operative housing association 

of video surveillance on its property. It concluded that the 
association had gone too far when using video surveillance 
in  the  main  entrance  and  stairwell,  and  when  recording 
audio. The Swedish SA ordered the co-operative housing 
association  to  stop  these  specific  surveillance  activities 
and  to  improve  the  information  provided  concerning  the 
video surveillance. Furthermore, it issued an administrative 

81

EDPB Annual Report  2020

6.3. 

SURVEY – BUDGET AND STAFF 

In  the  context  of  the  evaluation  of  the  GDPR,  the  EDPB 
conducted  a  survey  among  the  SAs  about  their  budget  and 
staff.  Based  on  information  provided  by  SAs  from  30  EEA 
countries before February 2020, an increase in the budget for 
2020 was envisaged in 26 cases. In respect of the remaining 
four SAs, three forecasted no change and for one no data was 
available. According to the same survey, a majority of SAs (23) 
anticipated  an  increase  in  staff  numbers  in  2020.  Five  SAs 
forecast that the number of their employees would not increase 
from 2019 to 2020, while two SAs predicted a decrease in staff 
numbers.  Differences  in  personnel  requirements  across  SAs 
are to be expected, given the varied remits of the SAs.  

In  its  contribution  to  the  evaluation  of  the  GDPR,  the  EDPB 
stresses that the effective application of the powers and tasks 
attributed  by  the  GDPR  to  SAs  is  largely  dependent  on  the 
resources available to them. Even though most SAs reported 
an increase in staff and resources, a majority of the SAs stated 
that  resources  made  available  to  them  were  insufficient. 
The  EDPB  noted  that  this  applies,  in  particular,  to  the  OSS 
mechanism, as its success depends on the time and effort that 
SAs can dedicate to individual cases and cooperation. 

fine  of  SEK  20,000  to  the  association.  When  calculating 
the amount of the fine, the Swedish SA considered the fact 
that it was a smaller co-operative housing association; 

•  Reviewed 

the  so-called  School  Platform,  which 

is 
the  IT  system  used,  among  other  things,  for  student 
administration  of  schools  in  the  City  of  Stockholm.  The 
review showed an insufficient level of security of such a 
grave nature that the Swedish SA issued an administrative 
fine of SEK 4,000,000 to the Board of Education in the City 
of Stockholm; 

•  Received  a  complaint  from  the  relative  of  a  resident 

impairments 

(so-called  LSS  housing) 

of  a  residential  care  home  for  persons  with  certain 
functional 
in 
Gnosjö Municipality, claiming that the resident was being 
monitored  illegally.  The  Swedish  SA  initiated  an  audit 
of  the  LSS  housing  and  concluded  that  the  resident  in 
question  was  indeed  monitored  in  his/her  bedroom  in 
violation of the GDPR and the Swedish Video Surveillance 
Act. In its decision, the Swedish SA stated that there was 
no  legal  basis  for  the  video  surveillance,  that  an  Impact 
Assessment  had  not  been  carried  out  before  initiating 
the video surveillance and that the controller had failed to 
clearly inform the resident about the video surveillance. For 
these  reasons,  the  Swedish  SA  issued  an  administrative 
fine of SEK 200,000 to the Social Welfare Committee; 

•  Audited eight health care providers in how they governed 

and  restricted  personnel’s  access  to  the  main  systems 
for electronic health records. The Swedish SA discovered 
insufficiencies  that  in  seven  of  the  eight  cases  lead  to 
administrative fines of up to SEK 30,000,000; 

•  Issued a fine of SEK 550,000 against the Umeå University 

for  failing  to  sufficiently  protect  sensitive  personal 
data.  Specifically,  the  University  had  processed  special 
categories  of  personal  data  concerning  sexual  life  and 
health  through,  amongst  others,  storage  on  a  cloud 
service, without sufficiently protecting the data; 

•  Imposed  an  administrative  fine  of  SEK  300,000  on  a 

housing  company  for  unlawful  video  surveillance  in  an 
apartment building. 

82

EDPB Annual Report  2020

7

Coordinated Supervision Committee of the large 
EU Information Systems and of EU bodies, offices 

and agencies 

In  accordance  with  Art.  62  of  Regulation  2018/1725,  the 
European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) and the national 
Supervisory  Authorities  (SAs)  shall  cooperate  actively  to 
ensure effective supervision of large-scale IT systems and of 
EU  bodies, offices and agencies. For this purpose,  the EDPS 
and SAs shall meet at least twice per year within the framework 
of the EDPB. Additionally, several legal acts on large-scale IT 
systems and EU agencies refer to this model of coordinated 
supervision. 

To ensure the consistency of supervision efforts on both levels, 
all SAs involved, including the EDPS, used to cooperate through 
Supervision Coordination Groups (SCGs). Each of these groups 
was dedicated to a specific EU database. 

Since December 2018, Regulation 2018/1725 has provided for 
a single model of coordinated supervision for large-scale EU IT 
systems and agencies within the framework of the EDPB. This 
replaces the current system of individual SCGs. The new model 
does not apply to all EU information systems and agencies at 
once, but progressively, according to when the revised version 
of  the  establishing  act  of  each  EU  information  system  and 
agency becomes applicable.  

In  December  2019,  the  Coordinated  Supervision  Committee 
(CSC)  was  formally  established  within  the  EDPB.  It  brings 
together the SAs of each EU Member State and the EDPS, as 
well as SAs of non-EU Members of the Schengen Area when 
foreseen under EU law.  

83

data and refusal of entry data of third country nationals 
crossing  the  external  borders  of  the  Schengen  States 
(expected in 2022);  

•  European  Travel  Information  and  Authorisation  System 

(ETIAS), which tracks visitors from countries who do not 
need a visa to enter the Schengen Zone (expected in 2022);  

•  Visa Information System (VIS), connecting consulates in 

non-EU  countries  and  all  external  border-crossing  points 
of Schengen States (expected in 2023); 

•  Eurodac, which compares fingerprints of asylum applicants 

to see if they have previously applied for asylum or entered 
the EU irregularly via another Member State; 

•  Customs Information System (CIS), which is an automated 

information  system  that  assists  EU  State  administrative 
authorities  in  preventing,  investigating  and  prosecuting 
operations  that  are  in  breach  of  customs  or  agricultural 
legislation. 

Police and Judicial Cooperation: 

of 2021);  

(before the end of 2021);  

•  SIS,  which  also  ensures  law  enforcement  cooperation 
•  European Public Prosecutor Office (EPPO) (before the end 
•  European  Criminal  Records 

Information  System  on 
third  country  nationals  (ECRIS-TCN),  which  allows  EU 
Member State authorities to identify which other Member 
States hold criminal records on third country nationals or 
stateless persons being checked (expected for 2022);  

•  Europol,  the  EU’s  law  enforcement  agency  (expected  by 

end of 2021 or early 2022).

The  CSC’s  tasks  include,  among  others,  supporting  SAs 
in  carrying  out  audits  and  inspections;  working  on  the 
interpretation  or  application  of  the  relevant  EU  legal  act; 
studying  problems  within  the  exercise  of 
independent 
supervision  or  within  the  exercise  of  data  subject  rights; 
drawing up harmonised proposals for solutions; and promoting 
awareness of data protection rights.  

Participation  in  the  CSC  meetings  can  occur  under  various 
arrangements,  depending  on  the  IT  system,  body,  office  or 
agency  for  which  supervision  is  taking  place,  as  well  as  the 
respective  EU  legal  act.  As  announced  in  December  2020, 
during its third plenary meeting, the CSC elected Clara Guerra 
from  the  Portuguese  SA  to  succeed  Giuseppe  Busia  as  its 
new  Coordinator  for  a  term  of  two  years.  Iris  Gnedler  from 
the German Federal SA will stay on as Deputy Coordinator for 
another year. 

Pursuant to Art. 62 of Regulation 2018/1725, the following EU 
large-scale IT systems, bodies, offices and agencies currently 
fall under the CSC’s scope: 

Internal Market:  

•  Internal  Market  Information  System  (IMI),  which  allows 

the  exchange  of  information  between  public  authorities 
involved in the practical implementation of EU law. 

Police and Judicial Cooperation: 

•  Eurojust, the agency responsible for judicial cooperation in 

criminal matters among EU Member States.  

In the future, all coordinated supervision of large EU information 
systems, bodies, offices and agencies will gradually be moved 
to the CSC, including: 

Border, Asylum and Migration: 

•  Schengen  Information  System  (SIS),  ensuring  border 
•  Entry  Exit  System  (EES),  which  registers  entry  and  exit 

control cooperation (before the end of 2021); 

84

EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020

8

Main objectives for 2021 

In early 2021, the EDPB adopted its two-year work programme 
for  2021-2022,  according  to  Art.  29  of  the  EDPB  Rules  of 
Procedure.  The  work  programme  follows  the  priorities  set 
out  in the EDPB 2021-2023 Strategy and will put the EDPB’s 
strategic objectives into practice. 

8.1. 

2021-2023 STRATEGY   

The EDPB defined its Strategy for 2021-2023, which covers the 
four main pillars of its strategic objectives, as well as a set of 
three key actions per pillar to help achieve these objectives. 

The pillars and key actions are as follows: 

1.  Advancing harmonisation and facilitating compliance by:  

a.  Providing  guidance  on  key  notions  of  EU  data 

protection law; 

b.  Promoting  development  and 

implementation  of 
compliance  mechanisms  for  data  controllers  and 
processors; 

c.  Fostering  the  development  of  common  tools  for  a 
wider  audience  and  engaging  in  awareness  raising 
and outreach activities. 

85

2.  Supporting 

enforcement 
cooperation between national SAs by:  

effective 

and 

efficient 

4.  Advancing a global dimension by: 

a.  Promoting and increasing awareness of the use and 
implementation of transfer tools which ensure a level 
of protection equivalent to the EEA; 

b.  Engaging with the international community; 
c.  Facilitating  the  engagement  between  the  EDPB 
Members and the SAs of third countries with a focus 
on  cooperation 
involving 
controllers or processors located outside the EEA.

in  enforcement  cases 

a.  Encouraging  and  facilitating  use  of  the  full  range  of 
cooperation tools enshrined in Chapter VII GDPR and 
Chapter VII Law Enforcement Directive; 
Implementing a Coordinated Enforcement Framework 
(CEF) to facilitate joint actions; 

b. 

c.  Establishing a Support Pool of Experts (SPE). 

3.  Promoting  a  fundamental  rights  approach  to  new 

technologies by:  

a.  Assessing those technologies; 
b.  Reinforcing data protection by design and by default 

c. 

and accountability; 
Intensifying engagement and cooperation with other 
regulators and policymakers.  

86

EDPB Annual Report  202099

Annexes

9.1. 

GENERAL  GUIDANCE  ADOPTED  IN 
2020 

•  Guidelines  01/2020  on  processing  personal  data 

in 
the  context  of  connected  vehicles  and  mobility  related 
applications 

•  Guidelines  02/2020  on  Arts.  46(2)(a)  and  46(3)(b)  of 

Regulation  2016/679  for  transfers  of  personal  data 
between EEA and non-EEA public authorities and bodies  

•  Guidelines 03/2020 on the processing of data concerning 

health for the purpose of scientific research in the context 
of the COVID-19 outbreak  

•  Guidelines 04/2020 on the use of location data and contact 
•  Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679 

tracing tools in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak 

•  Guidelines  06/2020  on  the  interplay  of  the  Second 

Payment Services Directive and the GDPR - Adopted after 
public consultation  

processor in the GDPR 

•  Guidelines  07/2020  on  the  concepts  of  controller  and 
•  Guidelines 08/2020 on the targeting of social media users 
•  Guidelines  09/2020  on  relevant  and  reasoned  objection 
•  Guidelines 10/2020 on restrictions under Art. 23 GDPR 
•  Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement 

under Regulation 2016/679 

transfer  tools  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  EU  level  of 
protection of personal data - version for public consultation 

•  Recommendations  02/2020  on  the  European  Essential 

Guarantees for surveillance measures 

87

87EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  20209.2. 

CONSISTENCY OPINIONS 
ADOPTED IN 2020 

•  Opinion  01/2020  on 

the  Spanish  data  protection 
Supervisory  Authority  draft  accreditation  requirements 
for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 
GDPR 

•  Opinion  02/2020  on 

the  Belgium  data  protection 
Supervisory  Authority  draft  accreditation  requirements 
for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 
GDPR  

•  Opinion 03/2020 on the France data protection Supervisory 

Authority  draft  accreditation  requirements  for  a  code  of 
conduct monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

•  Opinion 04/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  the  United  Kingdom  regarding 
the  approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion 05/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  Luxembourg  regarding  the 
approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion  06/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Fujikura Automotive Europe Group (FAE 
Group) 

•  Opinion  07/2020  on  the  draft  list  of  the  competent 

Supervisory Authority of France regarding the processing 
operations  exempt  from  the  requirement  of  a  data 
protection impact assessment (Art. 35(5) GDPR) 

•  Opinion  08/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Irish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Reinsurance Group of America 

•  Opinion  09/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Irish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Processor  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Reinsurance Group of America  

•  Opinion 10/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authorities of Germany regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

•  Opinion 11/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Ireland regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

•  Opinion 12/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Finland regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

•  Opinion 13/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  Italy  regarding  the  approval  of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

•  Opinion 14/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Ireland regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion 15/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authorities of Germany regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion 16/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  the  Czech  Republic  regarding 
the  approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion  17/2020  on  the  draft  Standard  Contractual 

Clauses submitted by the Slovenian Supervisory Authority 
(Art. 28(8) GDPR)  

•  Opinion 18/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  the  Netherlands  regarding  the 
approval of the requirements for accreditation of a code of 
conduct monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

88

88EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020•  Opinion 19/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Denmark regarding the approval 
of the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

•  Opinion 20/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Greece regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

•  Opinion 21/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory  Authority  of  the  Netherlands  regarding 
the  approval  of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a 
certification body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion 22/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Greece regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion 23/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

supervisory  authority  of  Italy  regarding  the  approval  of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion 24/2020 on the draft decision of the Norwegian 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Jotun  

•  Opinion  25/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Swedish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Tetra Pak  

•  Opinion 26/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Denmark regarding the approval 
of  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  certification 
body pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR  

•  Opinion  27/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Danish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Coloplast Group  

•  Opinion  28/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Spanish 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Iberdrola Group

•  Opinion 29/2020 on the draft decision of the Lower Saxony 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Novelis Group

•  Opinion 30/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Austria regarding the approval of 
the requirements for accreditation of a certification body 
pursuant to Art. 43(3) GDPR 

•  Opinion 31/2020 on the draft decision of the competent 

Supervisory Authority of Poland regarding the approval of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to Art. 41 GDPR  

•  Opinion  32/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  Dutch 

Supervisory  Authority  regarding  the  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules of Equinix  

LEGISLATIVE CONSULTATION 

9.3. 
•  EDPB  Letter  concerning  the  European  Commission’s 

draft  Guidance  on  apps  supporting  the  fight  against  the 
COVID-19 pandemic — 14/04/2020 

•  Statement on the ePrivacy Regulation and the future role 

of Supervisory Authorities and the EDPB - 19/11/2020 

OTHER DOCUMENTS 

9.4. 
•  Contribution  of  the  EDPB  to  the  evaluation  of  the  GDPR 
•  Individual  replies  from  the  data  protection 

under Art. 97 - 18/02/2020  

supervisory authorities 

19/02/2020  

•  Statement  on  privacy 
•  Statement  on  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the 

implications  of  mergers  – 

context of the COVID-19 outbreak — 19/03/2020  

89

89EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020the 

•  Mandate  on  the  processing  of  health  data  for  research 

purposes  in  the  context  of  the  COVID-19  outbreak — 
07/04/2020 

•  Mandate  on  geolocation  and  other  tracing  tools  in  the 
•  Statement  on  restrictions  on  data  subject  rights  in 

context of the COVID-19 outbreak — 07/04/2020

connection to the state of emergency in Member States 
— 02/06/2020

•  Statement  on  the  processing  of  personal  data  in  the 

context  of  reopening  of  borders  following  the  COVID-19 
outbreak - 16/06/2020 

the  data  protection 

impact  of 
interoperability of contact tracing apps - 16/06/2020 

•  Statement  on 
•  Statement  on  the  Court  of  Justice  of  the  European 

Union  Judgment  in  Case  C-311/18  -  Data  Protection 
Commissioner  v  Facebook 
Ireland  and  Maximillian 
Schrems - 17/07/2020 

•  Information  note  on  BCRs  for  Groups  of  undertakings  / 
•  Frequently Asked Questions on the judgment of the Court 

enterprises which have ICO as BCR Lead SA - 22/07/2020 

of Justice of the European Union in Case C-311/18 - Data 
Protection  Commissioner  v  Facebook  Ireland  Ltd  and 
Maximillian Schrems - 24/07/2020

•  EDPB Document on Coordinated Enforcement Framework 
•  Statement on the protection of personal data processed 

under Regulation 2016/679 - 20/10/2020

in  relation  with  the  prevention  of  money  laundering  and 
terrorist financing - 15/12/2020 

•  EDPB  Document  on  Terms  of  Reference  of  the  EDPB 
•  Information note on data transfers under the GDPR to the 

Support Pool of Experts - 15/12/2020 

United Kingdom after the transition period - 15/12/2020

•  Superseded  by 

Information  note  on  data 
transfers under the GDPR to the United Kingdom 
after 
-  13/01/2021   

transition  period 

the 

90

15/12/2020

•  Statement  on  the  end  of  the  Brexit  transition  period  - 
•  Superseded by Statement on the end of the Brexit 

transition period - 13/01/2021  

BCRs 

overview 

list 

- 

21/12/2020 

•  Pre-GDPR 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

90EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  20209.5. 

LIST  OF  EXPERT  SUBGROUPS  WITH 
SCOPE OF MANDATES

NAME OF EXPERT SUBGROUP (ESG)

SCOPE OF MANDATE

Borders, Travel & Law Enforcement (BTLE) Expert Subgroup

Compliance,  e-Government  and  Health 
Subgroup

(CEH)  Expert 

Cooperation Expert Subgroup

Coordinators Expert Subgroup

•  Law Enforcement Directive  
•  Cross-border requests for e-evidence  
•  Adequacy  decisions,  access  to  transferred  data  by  law 

enforcement and national intelligence authorities in third 
countries  (e.g.  follow-up  to  CJEU  Schrems  II  judgment 
and draft EU adequacy decisions on the UK) 

•  Passenger Name Records (PNR)  
•  Border controls 
•  Codes of conduct, certification and accreditation  
•  Close  cooperation  on  DPIA  with  the  Technology  ESG 
•  Close  cooperation  on  privacy  by  design  and  by  default 

focusing on the perspective of their mandates  

with the Technology ESG focusing on the perspective of 
their mandates  

purposes

•  Compliance with public law and eGovernment  
•  Health  
•  Processing  of  personal  data  for  scientific  research 
•  General focus on procedures of the GDPR  
•  Guidance on procedural questions  
•  International  mutual  assistance  and  other  cooperation 
•  General  coordination  between  the  Expert  Subgroup 
•  Coordination on the annual Expert Subgroup working plan

tools to enforce the GDPR outside the EU (Art. 50 GDPR) 

Coordinators  

91

91EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020NAME OF EXPERT SUBGROUP (ESG)

SCOPE OF MANDATE

•  Mapping/analysing the need for additional clarifications 

or  guidance,  based  on  practical  experiences  with  the 
application of Chapters VI, VII and VIII GDPR 

Cooperation subgroup tools 

•  Mapping/analysing  possible  updates  of  existing 
•  Monitoring of investigation activities  
•  Practical questions on investigations  
•  Guidance on the practical application of Chapter VII GDPR 
•  Guidance on the application of Chapter VIII GDPR together 

including exchanges on concrete cases 

with the Taskforce on Administrative Fines

Application of data protection principles in the financial sector 
(e.g. automatic exchange of personal data for tax purposes; 
impact of FATCA on the protection of personal data; interplay 
between Second Payment Services Directive and GDPR)

Guidance on Chapter V (International transfer tools and policy 
issues), more specifically: 

•  Review European Commission Adequacy decisions  
•  Guidelines on Art. 46 GDPR and review of administrative 

arrangements between public authorities and bodies (e.g. 
ESMA)  

•  Codes of conduct and certification as transfer tools  
•  Art. 48 GDPR together with BTLE ESG
•  Art. 50 GDPR together with Cooperation ESG  
•  Guidelines  on  territorial  scope  and  the  interplay  with 

Chapter V of the GDPR - interaction with Key Provisions 
ESG  

•  Exchange of information on review of BCRs and ad hoc 

contractual clauses according to Art. 64 GDPR

Enforcement Expert Subgroup

Financial Matters Expert Subgroup

International Transfers Expert Subgroup

92

92EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020NAME OF EXPERT SUBGROUP (ESG)

SCOPE OF MANDATE

IT Users Expert Subgroup

Key Provisions Expert Subgroup

Social Media Expert Subgroup

Developing  and  testing  IT  tools  used  by  the  EDPB  with  a 
practical focus:  

•  Collecting feedback on the IT system from users 
•  Adapting the systems and manuals  
•  Discussing  other  business  needs  including  tele-  and 

videoconference systems

Guidance  on  core  concepts  and  principles  of  the  GDPR, 
including  Chapters  I  (e.g.  scope,  definitions  like  LSA  and 
large-scale  processing)  and  II  (main  principles);  Chapters 
III  (e.g.  rights  of  individuals,  transparency),  IV  (e.g.  DPO  – 
shared  competences  with  CEH  ESG,  Enforcement  ESG  and 
Technology ESG) and IX

•  Analysing  social  media  services,  conceived  as  online 

platforms  that  focus  on  enabling  the  development  of 
networks  and  communities  of  users,  among  which 
information and content is shared and whereby additional 
functions  provided  by  social  media  services  include 
targeting, personalisation, application integration, social 
plug-ins, user authentication, analytics and publishing  

•  Analysing  established  and  emerging  functions  offered 

by  social  media,  including  the  underlying  processing 
activities  and  corresponding  risks  for  the  rights  and 
freedoms of individuals  

•  Developing  guidance, 

recommendations  and  best 
practices in relation to both the offer and use of social 
media  functions,  in  particular  for  economic  or  political 
reasons 

•  Providing assistance to other subgroups, in particular by 

proposing strategic priorities in terms of (a) supervision 
and  (b)  the  development  of  new  EDPB  guidance  or 
updating of existing WP29 guidance

93

93EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020NAME OF EXPERT SUBGROUP (ESG)

SCOPE OF MANDATE

•  Guidance  on  strategic  questions  affecting  the  whole 

EDPB (including the discussion on the work plans of the 
ESGs)  

•  Clarification of questions that could not be resolved in the 

ESG

Development  of  Guidelines  on  the  harmonisation  of  the 
calculation of fines

security, 

innovation, 

information 
confidentiality of communication in general  

•  Technology, 
•  ePrivacy, encryption  
•  DPIA and data breach notifications  
•  Emerging technologies, innovation and other challenges 

related to  privacy:  reflecting on  data protection  risks of 
future technological developments  

•   Providing input on technology matters relevant to other 
•  Geolocation and other tracing tools in the context of the 

ESG 

COVID-19 outbreak

Strategic Advisory Expert Subgroup 

Taskforce on Administrative Fines

Technology Expert Subgroup

94

94EDPB Annual Report  2020EDPB Annual Report  2020Contact details 

Postal address

 Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels 

Office address

 Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels 

 

