ANNUAL REPORTENSURING DATA PROTECTION RIGHTS IN A CHANGING WORLDEXECUTIVE SUMMARYENSURING DATA 

PROTECTION RIGHTS IN 
A CHANGING WORLD

Further details about the EDPB can be found on our website at edpb.europa.eu.

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is an independent 
European  body,  established  by  the  General  Data  Protection 
Regulation  (GDPR),  which  aims  to  ensure  the  consistent 
application  of  data  protection  rules  across  the  European 
Economic  Area  (EEA).  It  achieves  this  aim  by  promoting 
cooperation  between  national  Supervisory  Authorities 
(SAs)  and  issuing  general,  EEA-wide  guidance  regarding  the 
interpretation and application of data protection rules. 

The  EDPB  comprises  the  Heads  of  the  EU  SAs  and  the 
European  Data  Protection  Supervisor  (EDPS).  The  European 
Commission and - with regard to GDPR-related matters - the 
European  Free  Trade  Association  Surveillance  Authority  - 
have the right to participate in the activities and meetings of 
the EDPB without voting rights. The SAs of the EEA countries 
(Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway) are also members of the 
EDPB, although they do not hold the right to vote. The EDPB is 
based in Brussels. 

The EDPB has a Secretariat, which is provided by the EDPS. 
A  Memorandum  of  Understanding  determines  the  terms  of 
cooperation between the EDPB and the EDPS. 

1. 

1.1. 

2020 HIGHLIGHTS 

Contribution of the EDPB to 
the evaluation of the GDPR  

In February 2020, the EDPB and national Supervisory Authorities 
(SAs)  contributed  to  the  European  Commission’s  evaluation 
and review of the GDPR, as required by Art. 97 GDPR.  

The  EDPB  considers  that  the  GDPR  has  strengthened  data 
protection  as  a  fundamental  right  and  harmonised  the 
interpretation of data protection principles. Data subject rights 
have been reinforced and data subjects are increasingly aware 
of  the  modalities  to  exercise  their  data  protection  rights. 
The  GDPR  also  contributes  to  an  increased  global  visibility 
of  the  EU  legal  framework  and  is  being  considered  a  role 
model outside of the EU. In its report, the  EDPB states that it 
believes that the GDPR’s application has been successful, but 
acknowledges  that  a  number  of  challenges  still  remain.  For 
example, insufficient resources for SAs are still a concern, as 

33

EDPB Executive Summary  2020EDPB Executive Summary  2020

that  the  exporter  (if  needed,  with  the  help  of  the  importer), 
assesses, prior to the transfer, the level of protection afforded 
in the context of such transfers, taking into consideration both 
the SCCs and the relevant aspects of the legal system of the 
importer’s country, as regards any access to the data by that 
third country’s public authorities. The factors to be considered 
for  this  assessment  are  those  set  out,  in  a  non-exhaustive 
manner, in Art. 45(2) GDPR. 

The  judgment  has  wide-ranging  implications  for  EEA-based 
entities that use these mechanisms to enable personal data 
transfers to the U.S. and other third countries. Accordingly, the 
EDPB  issued  multiple  guidance  documents,  include  a  list  of 
FAQs and some Recommendations, on the judgment and its 
implementation. 

1.4. 

First Art. 65 GDPR binding decision 

On  9  November  2020,  the  EDPB  adopted  its  first  dispute 
resolution decision on the basis of Art. 65 GDPR. The binding 
decision addressed the dispute that arose after the Irish SA, 
acting  as  Lead  SA,  issued  a  draft  decision  regarding Twitter 
International  Company  and  the  subsequent  relevant  and 
reasoned objections expressed by a few Concerned SAs.  

2. 

EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION 
BOARD - ACTIVITIES IN 2020 

In  2020,  the  EDPB  adopted  10  Guidelines  on  topics  such 
the  concepts  of  controller  and  processor;  and  targeting  of 
social  media  users,  and  a  further  three  Guidelines that  were 
adopted after public consultation. The EDPB also issued two 
Recommendations. 

The  EDPB  also  oversaw  procedures  relating  to  consistency 
activities  to  clarify  the  process  and  aiming  to  ensure  its 
efficiency for the SAs.  In 2020, the EDPB issued 32 Opinions 
under Art. 64 GDPR. Most of these Opinions concerned draft 

are inconsistencies in national procedures that have an impact 
on the cooperation mechanism between SAs.  

Despite these challenges, the EDPB is convinced that ongoing 
cooperation  between  SAs  will  facilitate  a  common  data 
protection culture and establish consistent practices.  

Furthermore,  the  EDPB  believes  it  is  premature  to  revise  the 
GDPR. 

1.2. 

Issues relating to 
COVID-19 responses 

During  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  EEA  Member  States  began 
taking measures to monitor, contain and mitigate the spread of 
the virus. Many of these measures involved the processing of 
personal data, such as contact-tracing apps, the use of location 
data or the processing of health data for research purposes. 
As  such,  the  EDPB  provided  guidance  on  how  to  process 
personal data in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. During 
this period, the EDPB also responded to letters from Members 
of the European Parliament asking for further clarifications on 
COVID-19-related matters. 

1.3. 

International personal data flows 
after the Schrems II judgment 

On 16 July 2020, the Court of Justice of the EU (CJEU) released 
its judgment in Case C-311/18 (Schrems II). The CJEU examined 
two mechanisms that allow personal data transfers from the 
EEA to non-EEA countries (third countries), namely, the EU-U.S. 
Privacy Shield and Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs). The 
CJEU  invalidated  the  adequacy  decision  underlying  the  EU-
U.S.  Privacy  Shield,  thereby  rendering  it  invalid  as  a  transfer 
mechanism.  It  also  ruled  that  the  European  Commission’s 
Decision 2010/87 on SCCs for the transfer of personal data to 
third country processors is valid, so SCCs may still be used to 
enable international data transfers. This is upon the condition 

4
4

accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring 
body  or  a  certification  body,  as  well  as  Controller  Binding 
Corporate Rules for various companies.  

3. 

SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY 
ACTIVITIES IN 2020   

National Supervisory Authorities (SAs) are independent public 
authorities that monitor the application of data protection law. 
SAs play a key role in safeguarding individuals’ data protection 
rights. They can do this through exercising corrective powers.  

The  EDPB  website  includes  a  selection  of  SA  supervisory 
actions relating to GDPR enforcement at national level.  

The EDPB published a register of decisions taken by national 
SAs in line with the One-Stop-Shop cooperation procedure (Art. 
60 GDPR) on its website. 

3.1. 

Cross-border cooperation  

The GDPR requires the EEA SAs to cooperate closely to ensure 
the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  and  protection  of 
individuals’ data protection rights across the EEA. One of their 
tasks  is  to  coordinate  decision-making  in  cross-border  data 
processing cases. 

Between  1  January  and  31  December  2020,  there  were 
628 cross-border  cases  out  of  which  461  originated  from  a 
complaint, while 167 had other origins, such as investigations, 
legal obligations and/or media reports.  

EDPB Executive Summary  2020

The  One-Stop-Shop  mechanism  demands  cooperation 
between  the  Lead  Supervisory  Authority  (LSA)  and  the 
Concerned Supervisory Authorities (CSAs). The LSA leads the 
investigation and plays a key role in the process of reaching 
consensus between the CSAs, in addition to working towards 
reaching a coordinated decision about the data controller or 
processor. Between 1 January 2020 and 31 December 2020, 
there  were  203  draft  decisions,  from  which  resulted  93  final 
decisions that are published in a public register.  

The  mutual  assistance  procedure  allows  SAs  to  ask  for 
information  from  other  SAs  or  to  request  other  measures 
for  effective  cooperation,  such  as  prior  authorisations  or 
investigations.  Between  1  January  2020  and  31  December 
2020, SAs initiated 246 formal mutual assistance procedures. 
They 
informal  such  procedures.  Mutual 
assistance is also used by the SAs asking the competent SA 
to handle complaints they have received that do not relate to 
cross-border processing as defined by the GDPR.  

initiated  2,258 

4. 

STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION 
AND TRANSPARENCY 

During  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  the  EDPB  responded  to 
letters from Members of the European Parliament asking for 
further clarifications on COVID-19-related matters. The EDPB 
organised  a  stakeholder  event  on  the  concept  of  legitimate 
interest to gather input and views on this specific issue in the 
interest of developing future guidance.  

Following  the  preliminary  adoption  of  Guidelines,  the  EDPB 
organises  public  consultations  to  give  stakeholders  and 
citizens  the  opportunity  to  provide  additional  input,  which  is 
then considered in the subsequent drafting process. In 2020, 
the EDPB launched and completed seven such consultations. 

For the third year in a row, the EDPB conducted a survey as part 
of the annual review of the EDPB’s activities under Art. 71(2) 
GDPR.  Questions  centred  on  the  EDPB’s  work  and  output  in 

5

EDPB Executive Summary  2020

2020, with a focus on its Guidelines and Recommendations, all 
with a view to understanding the extent to which stakeholders 
find  the  EDPB’s  guidance  helpful  in  interpreting  the  GDPR’s 
provisions,  and  in  order  to  identify  future  paths  to  better 
support individuals and organisations as they approach data 
protection. 

5. 

STRATEGY AND 
OBJECTIVES FOR 2021 

The EDPB defined its Strategy for 2021-2023, which covers the 
four main pillars of its strategic objectives, as well as a set of 
three key actions per pillar to help achieve these objectives.  In 
early  2021,  the  EDPB  adopted  its  two-year  work  programme 
for  2021-2022,  according  to  Art.  29  of  the  EDPB  Rules  of 
Procedure.  The  work  programme  follows  the  priorities  set 
out  in the EDPB 2021-2023 Strategy and will put the EDPB’s 
strategic objectives into practice.

6

Contact details 

Postal address

 Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels 

Office address

 Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels 

 

