[doc. web n. 10111962]  
Provision of January 30, 2025  
Register of provisions  
No. 38 of January 30, 2025  

THE GUARANTOR FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA  

IN THE meeting held today, attended by  
Prof. Pasquale Stanzione, president, Prof.  
Ginevra Cerrina Feroni, vice president, Dr.  
Agostino Ghiglia and Attorney Guido Scorza, members, and  
Counsel Fabio Mattei, secretary general;  

HAVING REGARD TO Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament  
and of the Council, of April 27, 2016 (hereinafter “Regulation”);  

HAVING REGARD TO Legislative Decree No. 196 of June 30, 2003 (Code regarding  
the protection of personal data, hereinafter “Code”) as amended by Legislative Decree No. 101 of August 10, 2018, containing “Provisions for the adaptation of  
national legislation to the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”;  

HAVING REGARD TO the note of June 12, 2023, by which the Command  
of the Local Police of the City of Rezzato (BS) reported the presence of a  
surveillance system not compliant with the regulations on  
the protection of personal data;  

HAVING REGARD TO the minutes of the inspection carried out on June 9,  
2023, by the local police at the commercial establishment “Guru Nanak”;  

HAVING EXAMINED the documentation on file;  

HAVING REGARD TO the observations made by the secretary  
general pursuant to Article 15 of the Guarantor's regulation No. 1/2000;  

REPORTING Attorney Guido Scorza;  

PREMISED  

1. The report.  
With the note of June 12, 2023, the Command of the  
Local Police of the City of Rezzato (BS) transmitted the minutes of the inspection carried out  
at the retail establishment of food and non-food products named “Guru  
Nanak” located in Rezzato (BS), via Europa 19 (owned by Guru Nanak s.r.l.s. with registered office in  
Brescia, via Canipari 4), where the non-compliant installation of a  
surveillance system was ascertained, consisting of ten functioning  
cameras (eight located inside the aforementioned commercial establishment and two  
outside).  
According to the report attached to the inspection carried out on June 9,  
2023, the two external cameras were found to be capable of  
recording public areas and authorization from the Labor Inspectorate had not been  
requested, given the presence of an employee.  

2. The notification of violations and the defense memoranda.  
With the note of October 23, 2023, the Office sent to the  
data controller the communication of the initiation  
of proceedings for the violation of the general principles  
regarding the protection of personal data  
under Article 5, paragraph 1, letter a) and 6 of the  
Regulation, as it was found that:  
the external cameras had a field of view  
such that they also recorded public areas exceeding  
those strictly pertinent to the establishment (garage ramp and public road);  
the Company, despite employing workers at  
the establishment, had failed to comply with the guarantee procedures  
required by Article 4 of Law No. 300/1970 referenced by Article 114 of the Code, in  
relation to the use of the surveillance system within the  
commercial establishment.  
The party did not submit any defense writings (Article  
18 of Law No. 689/1981).  

3. The outcome of the investigation.  
From the minutes of the inspection carried out by the Local  
Police, it emerged that, at the time of the inspection,  
the surveillance system installed at the  
commercial establishment was operational and capable of  
recording public areas as well.  
It was indeed noted that the external cameras  
had a field of view such that they also recorded public areas exceeding  
those strictly pertinent to the establishment (garage ramp and  
public road); therefore, the processing was found to be  
carried out, in this respect, in violation  
of Article 6 of the Regulation as it lacked a legal basis.  
It was also noted that the Company, despite  
employing workers at the establishment, had  
failed to comply with the aforementioned guarantee procedures  
required by Article 4 of Law No. 300/1970 referenced by Article 114 of the Code.  
In general, the use of surveillance systems may result in the processing of  
personal data under Article 4, paragraph 1, no. 2,  
of the Regulation, which must be carried out in  
compliance with the general principles contained in Article 5  
of the Regulation.  
With the general provision on surveillance adopted by this Authority on April 8,  
2010 (available at the address  
www.garanteprivacy.it, doc. web n. 1712680), compatible with Regulation EU 679/2016 and with  
Guidelines No. 3/2019 on the processing of personal data, adopted by the EDPB on July 10, 2019, it is prescribed to the data controller that the processing  
be carried out in such a way as to limit the field of view of the cameras “to the area actually to  
be protected, avoiding, as far as possible, the  
recording of surrounding places and details that  
are not relevant (streets, buildings, commercial establishments,  
institutions)” (paragraph 6.2.2.1 of the provision).  
Furthermore, if the surveillance system is capable of  
recording employees during work activities, the processing is lawful if it is  
in accordance with the applicable sector regulations (Article.
5, par. 1, lett. a) of the Regulation).
In this regard, Article 88 of the Regulation has preserved the national provisions of greater protection (“more specific rules”) aimed at ensuring the protection of the rights and freedoms concerning the processing of personal data of workers. Article 114 of the Code, as a more specific provision regarding remote monitoring of workers, refers, among the conditions for the lawfulness of processing, to compliance with the provisions of Article 4, Law No. 300 of May 20, 1970. According to this latter legal provision, in the case of video surveillance systems from which the possibility of remote monitoring of employees' activities arises, the installation must, in any case, be carried out prior to the conclusion of a trade union agreement with the unitary trade union representation or with the company trade union representatives, or, if such an agreement could not be reached, or in the absence of representatives, only if preceded by the issuance of a specific authorization from the Labor Inspectorate. The activation and conclusion of this guarantee procedure is therefore an indispensable condition for the installation and proper operation of video surveillance systems.

4. Conclusions: declaration of unlawfulness of processing.
In light of the overall findings, the processing of personal data carried out by the party through the video surveillance systems operated by the Company is unlawful, as stated above, in relation to Articles 5, par. 1, lett. a) and 6 of the Regulation. The violation, established as outlined in the reasoning, cannot be considered “minor,” given the nature and severity of the violation itself, which concerned, among other things, the general principles of processing and compliance with specific safeguard measures for the rights of the Company's employees. Considering the Company's failure to participate in the proceedings, there is also a need to order the Company to modify the areas captured by the external cameras, so as to limit the processing to the only relevant areas and to proceed, if it has not already done so, with compliance with the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 1, Law No. 300 of May 20, 1970.

5. Order of injunction.
The Guarantor, pursuant to Article 58, par. 2, lett. i) of the Regulation and Article 166 of the Code, has the power to impose an administrative pecuniary sanction provided for by Article 83, par. 5, of the Regulation, by adopting an injunction order (Article 18, Law No. 689 of November 24, 1981), in relation to the processing of personal data carried out by the Company through the video surveillance system. With reference to the elements listed in Article 83, par. 2, of the Regulation for the application of the administrative pecuniary sanction and its quantification, considering that the sanction must be “effective, proportionate, and dissuasive in each individual case” (Article 83, par. 1 of the Regulation), it is represented that, in this case, the following circumstances have been taken into account: regarding the nature, gravity, and duration of the violation, the negligent conduct of the data controller has been considered; the circumstance that the party did not cooperate with the Authority during the proceedings, not sending its own defensive writings; the absence of specific previous violations against the party related to the discipline on the protection of personal data. It is also believed that the economic conditions of the offender, determined based on the Company's turnover, as per the financial statements for the year 2023, are relevant in this case, in light of the principles of effectiveness, proportionality, and dissuasiveness to which the Authority must adhere in determining the amount of the sanction (Article 83, par. 1, of the Regulation). In light of the above elements and the evaluations made, it is deemed appropriate, in this case, to apply to the Company the administrative sanction of payment of an amount equal to one thousand euros (€1,000.00). In this context, it is also considered that, pursuant to Article 166, paragraph 7, of the Code and Article 16, paragraph 1, of the Guarantor's Regulation No. 1/2019, the publication of this section containing the injunction order on the Guarantor's website should proceed. This is in consideration of the type of violations established that concerned the general principles of processing, also regarding the need to comply with the applicable sector regulations for processing in the workplace.

ALL OF THE ABOVE CONSIDERED, THE GUARANTOR
declares, pursuant to Articles 57, par. 1, lett. f) and 83 of the Regulation, the unlawfulness of the processing carried out by Guru Nanak s.r.l.s (PI 04119650986), through the use of the video surveillance system, as stated in the reasoning, for the violation of Articles 5, par. 1, lett. a) of the Regulation;
ORDERS
Guru Nanak s.r.l.s to pay the sum of €1,000.00 (one thousand), as an administrative pecuniary sanction, for the violation indicated in the reasoning;
ORDERS
- the same Company to conform the processing carried out through the video surveillance system as indicated in point 3 of this decision,
providing for:
a) limiting the operation of the cameras to
only the relevant areas,
b) requesting the issuance of a specific authorization
from the competent Labor Inspectorate, if
it has not already been provided voluntarily.
- to the same Company, to pay the sum of euro
1,000.00 (one thousand), according to the methods indicated in
the attachment, within 30 days from the notification of this
provision, under penalty of the adoption of the consequent
executive acts pursuant to art. 27 of law no.
689/1981.
It is noted that pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 8
of the Code, the possibility for the
offender to settle the dispute by means of payment – always according to the methods indicated in
the attachment – of an amount equal to half of the
sanction imposed within the term referred to in art.
10, paragraph 3, of Legislative Decree no. 150 of September 1, 2011
provided for the submission of the appeal as indicated below.
ORDERS
pursuant to art. 166, paragraph 7, of the Code and
art. 16, paragraph 1, of the Garante Regulation no.
1/2019, the publication of the injunction order
on the Garante's website;
pursuant to art. 154-bis, paragraph 3, of the Code and
art. 37 of the Garante Regulation no. 1/2019,
the publication of this provision on the Garante's website;
pursuant to art. 17 of the Garante Regulation no.
1/2019, the annotation of the violations and the measures
adopted in accordance with art. 58, par. 2, of the
Regulation, in the internal register of the Authority
provided for by art. 57, par. 1, lett. u), of the
Regulation.
Pursuant to art. 78 of the Regulation, of arts.
152 of the Code and 10 of Legislative Decree no.
150 of September 1, 2011, against this provision it is possible
to appeal to the ordinary judicial authority,
under penalty of inadmissibility, within thirty
days from the date of communication of the provision
itself or within sixty days if the appellant
resides abroad.
Rome, January 30, 2025
THE PRESIDENT
Stanzione
THE REPORTER
Scorza
THE SECRETARY GENERAL
Mattei