 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Bavarian public authorities and telemedia
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
releases new guidance

Munich, December 22, 2021

Numerous Bavarian public bodies operate websites. This administration
activity does not take place in a legal vacuum. The federal legislature has
December 1, 2021, enacted a Telecommunications Telemedia Data Protection Act that
contains, among other things, regulations on the "protection of privacy in end devices". U.N-
Under the somewhat cumbersome designation, there are regulations that are particularly related to the
"Cookies" and "consent banners" - at least from the point of view of many users
zer – two basic annoyances of internet use.

The Bavarian state commissioner for data protection lets the Bavarian public
Don't stand in the rain on this topic either. Following the already in October
About published current short information "Cookie consent on websites Bavarian
scher public bodies" he now has the comprehensive guide "Bavarian public
che Bodies and Telemedia" published, which the new legal regulations
explained in detail with numerous examples. Test grid for use and design
of consent banners or lists to distinguish between those requiring consent and those not
Cookies that require approval are aimed at further practical use.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "The new telecommunications telemedia data protection law
should also be an occasion for Bavarian public bodies to present existing websites
subject to a critical review in terms of data protection law. This applies in particular
especially for the use of third-party services, the design of the data protection notices and
like consent banners. Users must inform themselves in an uncomplicated
what personal data of them is processed, how and in what
they can consent or revoke consent.”

The orientation guide “Bavarian public authorities and telemedia” is available, as is the
Current short information "Cookie consent on websites of Bavarian public
Jobs" at https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de in the section "Data Protection Reform 2018"
ready to download.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
subject to instructions.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

