1/17

 File No.: PS/00375/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated May 31, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
The claim is directed against BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A., with NIF
A48265169 (hereinafter, the claimed party or BBVA). The reasons on which the
claim are as follows:

On November 25, 2020, in his capacity as lawyer for Ms. B.B.B.,
filed a claim document with the BBVA entity on its behalf.
Subsequently, on December 1, 2020, the respondent entity delivered in
hand to his client, Ms. B.B.B., a letter relating to the claim addressed by BBVA
to the complaining party in which the private address of the latter is recorded, instead of the
corresponding to his professional office, violating the duty of confidentiality
of data (the complaining party is also a client of the entity). The complaining party
warns that BBVA has revealed his private address, which was not known to Ms.
B.B.B., which was provided to the entity due to its status as its client, with
occasion of opening a bank account. It also adds that it presented
claim before BBVA requesting compensation for these events and received
answer on December 31, 2020.

Provides the initial claim presented as a lawyer, which does not indicate
no contact postal address, and a copy of the email by which
sends the same to the claimed entity, dated 11/25/2020; BBVA's response
indicating to the claiming party the reference number assigned to the claim,
addressed to the claimant at his private address; WhatsApp screenshot by
that Mrs. B.B.B. sends said response to the complaining party; and writing from BBVA
responding to the second claim made for the incident that occurred with their
data, in which the entity apologizes and indicates that they have put the facts in
knowledge of those responsible involved in order to be able to adopt, in their
case, the appropriate measures.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on 06/22/2021 as stated in the
acknowledgment of receipt in the file.

On 09/01/2021, this Agency received a written response from BBVA
indicating that the response issued by the entity to acknowledge receipt of the claim
submitted by the complaining party on behalf of its client, which did not indicate
no address for communication purposes, it was sent to the only address
known by BBVA, which was included in the client database.

In addition, BBVA states that on December 1, 2020, Ms. B.B.B. he appeared in
the office of the entity requesting to know the status of your claim and a copy of the
proceedings. At that time, the Director of the office gave said person a
copy of the only document that existed to date, corresponding to the acknowledgment of
receipt of the claim.

Subsequently, on December 3, 2020, the claiming party submitted in another
BBVA office a new claim document on behalf of your client in which
indicated his professional address as address for the purposes of notifications.

On December 25, 2020, the SAC responded to the claim submitted, sending
said reply to the address indicated by the complaining party in its brief dated 3
December 2020, that is, your professional address.

THIRD: On October 6, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

1. The claimed entity is a Spanish public limited company. According to
the data in “Axesor” refers to a large group parent company (…). No
files from before the present have been found in Sigrid in relation to
security breaches of this entity.

2. Information and documentation was requested from the requested entity and, from the response
received, the following follows:

a) Regarding the chronology of the events. Actions taken in order to
minimize the adverse effects and measures adopted for their final resolution.

On December 1, 2020, a client of the claiming party requests
copy of the claim that it filed on its behalf before BBVA. The
The respondent entity delivered by hand to this person the document related to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

claim, in the name of the claimant and in which the private address is stated
this.

BBVA, on December 23, 2020, responded to the claim of the claimant
apologizing for what happened, noting that said incident has been put into
knowledge of those responsible involved who have adopted measures to avoid
similar incidents.

Knowing the incidence by BBVA, the facts have been analyzed and verified that said
incident occurred due to a specific error, which was repaired immediately
Inform the complaining party of the address of his professional office.

BBVA clarifies that providing the person represented by the claimant with the
acknowledgment of receipt of the claim, without hiding the private address of the claim (address
used by the SAC as the address of the professional firm did not appear in the document),
It was a specific and isolated error.

b) Regarding the causes that made the gap possible

The person represented by the claimant requested the BBVA branch, on
December 2020, a copy of the claim file submitted by your
representative, since at that time the issue had not yet been resolved.
claim and only included the acknowledgment of receipt of the claim, this document will
was delivered by the Director of the office in which the address of the
domicile of the complaining party.

c) Regarding the affected data

The data affected was the private address of the claimant.

d) Regarding the security measures implemented

BBVA defends that: (i) it is a specific and involuntary error, since the Director
of the office was unaware that it was a private address and therefore a
personal data of the representative; (ii) that it was corrected, thus it is proven that
immediately adopted measures so that it did not happen again, using
mechanisms to reverse the situation and eliminate any risk of recidivism without
specify or certify them.

FIFTH: On 08/10/2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Datos agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the entity BBVA, in accordance with the
provided in articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged infractions
following:

. Violation of article 5.1.b) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the same
Regulation, and classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in article
72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD.

. Violation of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4.a) of the same
Regulation, and classified as serious for the purposes of prescription in article 73.f) and g)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

of the LOPDGDD.

. Violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the same
Regulation, and classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription in article
72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD.

In the opening agreement it was determined that the sanction that could correspond,
attention to the existing evidence at the time of opening and without prejudice to the
resulting from the instruction, would amount to a total of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand
euros): 25,000 euros (twenty-five thousand euros) for the alleged infringement of article
5.1.b) of the GDPR, of 20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros) for the alleged infringement of the
Article 32 of the GDPR and 25,000 euros (twenty-five thousand euros) for the alleged
violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR.

Likewise, it was warned that the imputed infractions, if confirmed, may
lead to the imposition of measures in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article
58.2 d) of the GDPR.

SIXTH: The notification to the claimed party of the opening agreement outlined in the
previous antecedent, in which a term was granted to formulate allegations and
proposing evidence, it was sent through the Electronic Notification Service, and it was
delivered to BBVA on 08/11/2022.

SEVENTH: Notification of the aforementioned initiation agreement in accordance with the established regulations
in the LPACAP and after the period granted for the formulation of allegations, the
has verified that no allegation has been received by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP -provision of which the claimed party was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
arguments within the established term on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement of
beginning of the disciplinary file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infractions of the RGPD attributed to the defendant and the sanctions that
they could prevail. Therefore, taking into consideration that the claimed party has not
made allegations to the agreement to start the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initiation agreement is
considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

1. The complaining party is a private client of BBVA, as the holder of an account
banking. For this reason, he provided the aforementioned entity with his personal data, including the
relative to the postal address corresponding to your home address.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

2. On 11/25/2020, in his capacity as lawyer, the claimant filed
before BBVA a claim on behalf of one of its clients.

3. On the same date of 11/25/2020, BBVA acknowledged receipt of the reported claim
in the Second Proven Fact by writing to the claimant and his
personal address, the one associated with your private client file as holder of a
bank account opened in this bank. Through this letter, BBVA informed the
complaining party the reference number assigned to the claim.

4. On 12/01/2020, BBVA provided the person represented by the party
claimant the document acknowledging receipt of the claim outlined in the Fact
Tested Third, revealing the data relating to the personal address of the
complaining party.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), recognizes each
Control Authority, and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures”.

II

In this case, the following facts are revealed, without any of them
they are controversial:

The claimant is a private client of BBVA, as the holder of an account
banking. For this reason, he provided the aforementioned entity with his personal data, including the
relative to the postal address corresponding to your home address.

In his capacity as lawyer and acting on behalf of and on behalf of one of his
customers, the claimant filed a claim with BBVA, of which this
entity acknowledged receipt by writing to the complaining party and his address
personal, the one associated with your particular client file as an account holder
Bank opened in this Bank.

In addition, BBVA provided the person represented by the claimant with this
document acknowledging receipt of the claim made, making it clear
the data relating to the personal address of the complaining party, which was not known by

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

this third person.

II

The facts exposed, in relation to the use of the personal data of the party
claimant relative to his private address for the processing of a claim
formulated by the same in name and representation of a third party, acting under its
lawyer status, without there being legitimate cause for it, suppose a
breach of the principle of "limitation of purpose" regulated in article 5.1.b)
of the GDPR, which establishes the following:

"1. Personal data will be:
(…)
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be further processed
in a manner incompatible with said purposes; according to article 89, paragraph 1, the
further processing of personal data for purposes of archiving in the public interest, purposes of
scientific and historical research or statistical purposes shall not be considered incompatible with the
initial purposes (“purpose limitation”).

In relation to the principles regulated in the aforementioned article 5 of the GDPR, it is taken into account
Consider what is stated in Recital 39 of the aforementioned GDPR:

“39. All processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For natural persons, it must
make it completely clear that they are collecting, using, consulting or otherwise dealing with
way personal data concerning them, as well as the extent to which such data is or
they will be treated. The principle of transparency requires that all information and communication
regarding the processing of said data is easily accessible and easy to understand, and that it is
use simple and clear language. This principle refers in particular to the information of
the interested parties on the identity of the person responsible for the treatment and the purposes of the same and to the
added information to guarantee a fair and transparent treatment with respect to the
natural persons affected and their right to obtain confirmation and communication of the data
personal data concerning them that are subject to treatment. Natural persons must
be aware of the risks, standards, safeguards and rights relating to the
processing of personal data, as well as how to enforce your rights in relation to
with the treatment. In particular, the specific purposes of the processing of personal data
they must be explicit and legitimate, and must be determined at the time of collection. The
personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes
for those who are treated. This requires, in particular, ensuring that it is limited to a minimum
its conservation period is strict. Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the
treatment could not reasonably be accomplished by other means. To ensure that the
personal data is not kept longer than necessary, the data controller has
to establish deadlines for its suppression or periodic review. All measures must be taken
reasonable to ensure that any personal data that is
inaccurate. Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees security and
appropriate confidentiality of personal data, including to prevent unauthorized access or use
authorized of said data and the equipment used in the treatment”.

In this case, BBVA processed personal data on the part
claimant incompatible with the purposes that determined the collection of such
data.
Consequently, the aforementioned facts violate the provisions of article 5.1.b) of the
GDPR, giving rise to the application of the corrective powers that article 58 of the
Said Regulation grants the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

IV.

Article 32 of the GDPR, "Security of treatment", establishes the following:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature, the
scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as probability and severity risks
Variables for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person in charge and the person in charge
of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level
of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a manner
fast in case of physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the measures
technical and organizational to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When assessing the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of the
risks presented by data processing, in particular as a result of the
destruction, loss or accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted,
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such
data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a mechanism of
certification approved under article 42 may serve as an element to demonstrate the
compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and having access
to personal data can only process said data following the instructions of the person in charge,
unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

The GDPR defines breaches of personal data security as “all
those security violations that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or illegal alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized disclosure of or access to such data.”

It should be noted that the GDPR does not establish a list of security measures
that are applicable according to the data that are processed, but
which establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply measures
technical and organizational that are appropriate to the risk involved in the treatment,
taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, the nature,
scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of probability and seriousness
for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

In addition, security measures must be adequate and proportionate to the
detected risk, noting that the determination of the technical measures and
organizational procedures must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and encryption, the
ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience, the
ability to restore availability and access to data after an incident, process
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

verification (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the security level,
particular account of the risks presented by data processing, such as
consequence of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of data
personal information transmitted, preserved or processed in another way, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this sense, recital 83 of the GDPR states that:

"(83) In order to maintain security and prevent processing from infringing the provisions of the
this Regulation, the controller or processor must assess the risks inherent in the
treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as encryption. These measures should ensure
an appropriate level of security, including confidentiality, taking into account the state of
the technique and cost of its application with respect to the risks and the nature of the data
personnel that must be protected. When assessing the risk in relation to the safety of the
data, the risks deriving from data processing must be taken into account
personal data, such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access
to said data, susceptible in particular to cause physical, material or
immaterial”.

In accordance with what is stated in Recital 74 of the GDPR, the person responsible for the
treatment corresponds to be able to demonstrate that the measures adopted are effective:

"The responsibility of the data controller must be established for any
processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In particular, the
responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures and must be able to
demonstrate the compliance of processing activities with this Regulation,
including the effectiveness of the measures. Such measures should take into account the nature,
scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risk to rights and freedoms
of natural persons”.

These technical and organizational measures are included as part of the principle of
active responsibility, which requires a prior assessment by the person responsible for the
treatment of the risk that the processing of personal data could generate,
from which the appropriate measures will be adopted.

With the GDPR, anticipation of the infringement or injury of rights is sought to
avoid it. This proactive focus on the “permanent implementation” of security measures
security implies that they are not static, but dynamic, corresponding
It is up to the data controller to determine at all times what are the measures of
necessary security measures to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity and
availability of personal data and mitigate or eliminate risks to
people rights. The first step is to carry out a “risk analysis” to
assess threats.

It is the person in charge or in charge of treatment who must prove said diligence
with a solid and effective internal control system. Therefore, the mere
formal demonstration of compliance, but this principle requires a prior attitude,
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

conscious, diligent and proactive on the part of the organizations in front of all the
processing of personal data that they carry out.

The mandatory nature of these measures, or the way in which they are applied, will depend on
factors that must be taken into account in each case, such as the type of treatment and the
risk that said treatment implies for the rights and freedoms of the interested parties.
Consequently, the due diligence must be adapted to the level of risks in the
protection of data and the characteristics of the organization.

The concept of due diligence can be defined as “the measure of prudence,
activity or assiduity that can be reasonably expected, and with which normally
acts, an organization prudently and reasonably in circumstances
determined; It is not measured by an absolute norm, but depending on the facts
relative to the case in question”. Therefore, due diligence is an ongoing process.
observation and prevention of the negative effects of the entities' activities
on data protection.

In the instant case, as shown by the facts, the defendant used the
personal data of the complaining party registered in their private client file
for the processing of a claim made by this claiming party in
third party name. In addition, he provided a third party with the acknowledgment document
of said claim, informing him of the personal data of the claiming party
relating to your home address.

This fact shows that the requested entity has not adopted in a
effective technical and organizational measures to ensure the safety
and confidentiality of the data of its clients, especially those aimed at preventing the
access to information by unauthorized third parties, as in fact occurred when the
The respondent entity itself provided the client of the complaining party with the document of
acknowledgment of receipt of the claim formulated, addressed to the claimant and his
personal address.

Consequently, the aforementioned facts violate the provisions of article 32 of the GDPR,
giving rise to the application of the corrective powers that article 58 of the aforementioned
Regulation grants the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

V

The aforementioned article 5 of the GDPR establishes the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions, among them, that of "integrity and
confidentiality”:

"1. Personal data will be:
(…)
f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of personal data,
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against its loss,
accidental destruction or damage, through the application of technical or organizational measures
appropriate (“integrity and confidentiality”).
(…)”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

The documentation in hand offers sufficient evidence to understand that the entity
claimed violated article 5 of the GDPR, which regulates the duty of confidentiality,
materialized in the disclosure to third parties of the personal data of the party
claimant, specifically, the one related to his private address. It is a diffusion
of personal data for which the requested party does not have a legal basis that
legitimate.

This duty of confidentiality is intended to prevent leaks from being made
of the data not consented by their owners.

Consequently, the aforementioned facts imply a violation of the provisions of the
Article 5.1 f) of the GDPR, which gives rise to the application of the corrective powers that the
Article 58 of the aforementioned Regulation grants the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
data.

SAW

BBVA, in its response to the process for forwarding the claim, has stated that
the facts verified took place due to a specific and isolated error, although not even
has explained what the alleged error consisted of.

In this regard, it is necessary to consider that the incidents that motivate the actions
occur within BBVA's area of responsibility and this entity must respond
thus. In no way can it be considered that the error that he claims to have committed
exclude its responsibility, since, according to settled jurisprudence, it cannot
The existence of such an error may be considered when it is attributable to the person who suffers it or could
be avoided by the use of increased diligence. In this case, the assumed error is
incompatible with the diligence that the claimed party is obliged to observe.

This diligence must be manifested in the specific case under analysis, in respect of which
the error is alleged, and not in general circumstances.

In the specific case of the complaining party, it cannot be accepted that the actions of the
claimed entity results from an error. Admitting that it is not appropriate to demand responsibility from
BBVA for the facts analyzed, based on an alleged error, would be as much as
admit that the application of the GDPR and the LOPDGDD can be ignored.

In this regard, it should be remembered that when the error shows a lack of
due diligence the rate is applicable. The National Court in the Judgment of 21
September 2004 (RCA 937/2003), pronounces itself in the following terms:

"In addition, as regards the application of the principle of guilt, it results (following the criterion of
this Chamber in other Judgments such as the one dated January 21, 2004 issued in the appeal
1139/2001) that the commission of the offense provided for in article 44.3.d) can be both
willful as guilty. And in this sense, if the error shows a lack of diligence, the guy
is applicable…".

In this line it is worth mentioning the SAN of January 21, 2010, in which the Court
exposes:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

“The appellant also maintains that there is no guilt in her actions. Is
true that the principle of guilt prevents the admission in administrative law
sanctioning of strict liability, it is also true that the absence of
intentionality is secondary since this type of infraction is normally committed
due to negligent or negligent action, which is enough to integrate the subjective element
of guilt. XXX's performance is clearly negligent because... he must know... the
obligations imposed by the LOPD on all those who handle personal data of third parties.
XXX is obliged to guarantee the fundamental right to the protection of personal data
of its clients and hypothetical clients with the intensity required by the content of its own
right".

The principle of guilt is required in the disciplinary procedure and thus the STC
246/1991 considers it inadmissible in the field of penalizing administrative law
a responsibility without fault. But the fault principle does not imply that it can only
punish an intentional or voluntary action, and in this regard article 28
of Law 40/2015 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector, under the rubric
"Responsibility" provides the following:

"1. They may only be penalized for acts constituting an administrative offense
physical and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes their capacity to act, the
affected groups, unions and entities without legal personality and estates
independent or self-employed, who are responsible for them by way of fraud or
blame".

The facts set forth show that BBVA did not act with due diligence in
that she was obliged, that she acted with a lack of diligence. The Supreme Court (Sentences
of 04/16 and 22/1991) considers that from the guilty element it follows “...that the
action or omission, classified as an administratively sanctionable infraction, must be,
in any case, attributable to its author, due to intent or imprudence, negligence or ignorance
inexcusable". The same Court reasons that "it is not enough... for exculpation against
a typically unlawful behavior the invocation of the absence of guilt" but
that it is necessary to prove "that the diligence that was required by the person who
alleges its non-existence” (STS January 23, 1998).

Also connected to the degree of diligence that the data controller is
obliged to deploy in compliance with the obligations imposed by the
data protection regulations can be cited the SAN of 10/17/2007 (Rec. 63/2006),
which specified: "(...) the Supreme Court has been understanding that there is imprudence
whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is, when the offender does not
behaves with the required diligence”.
 
In addition, the National Court, in terms of data protection of
personal nature, has declared that "simple negligence or breach of
the duties that the Law imposes on the persons responsible for files or the
data processing to be extremely diligent..." (SAN 06/29/2001).

VII

In the event of an infringement of the provisions of the GDPR, among the
corrective powers available to the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
as supervisory authority, article 58.2 of said Regulation contemplates the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

following:

"2 Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers indicated to
continuation:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person in charge or person in charge of the treatment when the
processing operations have infringed the provisions of this Regulation;”
(...)
d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations are
conform to the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, of a given
manner and within a specified period;
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in letter d)
above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

VIII

Failure to comply with the provisions of article 5.1.b) and f) of the GDPR entails the
commission of offenses typified in section 5.a) of article 83 of the
GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the imposition of fines
administrative" provides the following:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for consent to
tenor of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”.

On the other hand, the violation of article 32 of the GDPR is typified in the
Article 83.4.a) of the aforementioned GDPR in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the controller and the person in charge under articles 8, 11, 25 to 39, 42 and
43.
(…)”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

“Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a violation
substance of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees established in the
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements considered
serious”:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered
serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a substantial infringement
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that are appropriate
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment, in the terms
required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
g) The breach, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence, of the measures
technical and organizational that had been implemented in accordance with the requirements of article 32.1
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”.

In this case, in accordance with the facts exposed, it is considered that the sanction that
It would be appropriate to impose an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR.

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of article 83, section 2, of the GDPR, which states the following:

"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case.
individually, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount
in each individual case due account shall be taken of:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number of
affected stakeholders and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to alleviate the
damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account
of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular if the
Controller or processor notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the same
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or certification mechanisms
approved under article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
the offence”.

 

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", establishes:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of said article.
2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 also
may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) Linking the offender's activity with data processing
personal.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of the
infringement.
e) The existence of a merger process by absorption subsequent to the commission of the infraction,
that cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) The affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which there are
disputes between those and any interested party”.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, for the purpose of setting the amount of the sanctions
to be imposed in the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate them in accordance with
the following criteria established by the transcribed precepts:

In this case, the graduation criteria are considered concurrent as aggravating factors.
following:

. Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR: "b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement".

The negligence appreciated in the commission of the offense, considering that the
The defendant party used the personal data of the complaining party registered in
the entity in its capacity as a client, without taking into account that it intervened in the
made in the name and representation of a third party.

In this regard, what was declared in the Judgment of the Hearing
National of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006) that, based on the fact that they are entities
whose activity involves continuous data processing, indicates that "...the
The Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence whenever
disregards a legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not
behave with the required diligence. And in the assessment of the degree of diligence has
to weigh especially the professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt
that, in the case now examined, when the appellant's activity is
constant and abundant handling of personal data must be insisted on the
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

15/17

rigor and exquisite care to comply with the legal provisions in this regard”.

It is an entity that processes personal data in a manner
systematic and continuous and that it must take extreme care in fulfilling its
data protection obligations.

This Agency understands that the diligence must be deduced from facts
conclusive, duly accredited and directly related
with the elements that make up the infringement, in such a way that it can be deduced
that it has occurred despite all the means provided by the
responsible to avoid it. In this case, the action of the claimed party does not
has this character.

. Article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD: "b) Linking the offender's activity
with the processing of personal data”.

The high link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data. The level of implementation of the entity and the
activity that it carries out, in which the personal data of millions of
of interested This circumstance determines a greater degree of demand and
professionalism and, consequently, the responsibility of the entity
claimed in relation to data processing.

. Article 83.2.k) of the GDPR: "k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor
applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained
or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through the breach”.

. BBVA's status as a large company and volume of business. It consists in
the actions that said entity has (...).

The following circumstance is also considered to be mitigating:

. Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR: "a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the
infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the operation
treatment in question as well as the number of interested parties affected and the
level of damages they have suffered”.

The infringement is an anomaly that affects only the complaining party.

Considering the exposed factors, the value reached by the fines for the
imputed offenses is 25,000 euros (twenty-five thousand euros) for offenses
very serious (violation of articles 5.1.b) and 5.1.f) of the GDPR) and 20,000 euros
(twenty thousand euros) for a serious offense (violation of the provisions of article 32
of the GDPR).

IX

Once the infringements have been confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person in charge the adoption of
adequate measures to adjust its performance to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

which each control authority may "order the person responsible or in charge of the
processing that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a certain
specified term…”.

In such a case, this Agency could require the person in charge to adapt the
processing of personal data that it carries out in accordance with the data protection regulations
in accordance with what is indicated in the preceding Fundamentals of Law.

This case affects only the complaining party and has to do with the
improper use and communication of the personal data of the complaining party related to
his personal address, on the occasion of a claim in which he intervened under the
status of representative of the person concerned; and the entity BBVA has
stated that this circumstance was later corrected. Being so, it does not fit
in this case, urge the adoption of measures by the data controller.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A., with NIF
A48265169, for a violation of article 5.1.b) of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5.a) of the same Regulation, and classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription
in article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of 25,000 euros (twenty-five thousand
euro).

SECOND: IMPOSE BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A., with NIF
A48265169, for a violation of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article
83.4.a) of the same Regulation, and classified as serious for the purposes of prescription in the
article 73.f) and g) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of 20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros).

THIRD: IMPOSE BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A., with NIF
A48265169, for a violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5.a) of the same Regulation, and classified as very serious for the purposes of prescription
in article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD, a fine of 25,000 euros (twenty-five thousand
euro).

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA
ARGENTARIA, S.A.

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

