media information
Saxon data protection officer

Your contact person
Andrew Schneider
extension
Telephone +49 351 85471 120
Fax +49 351 85471 109
sdb.presse@slt.sachsen.de*
28.12.2021

Andreas Schurig's term of office is coming to an end
Importance of data protection grows – tech giants must
Offer GDPR-compliant solutions - Better equipment of
data protection officers required

After three terms of office, the activity will end on December 31, 2021
by Andreas Schurig as Saxon data protection officer. Since 2004
he worked on several with his employees
ten thousand cases. Some received nationwide attention, for example the
so-called »Saxon swamp« investigations 2006/2007 or the Dresden
»Handygate« in 2011. In addition to these incidents, there were many others
Events and consultations that did not find their way into the media.
Andreas Schurig sums it up: “I am proud of what we have achieved in the 18th
years of my tenure have accomplished and achieved. One of the biggest
The changeover to the European system was certainly a challenge
General Data Protection Regulation, which came into effect in May 2018. Above
I received a thousand requests for advice on this; by citizens
and citizens, companies, associations and from the administration. Added
came a number of new tasks and duties as independent ones
supervisory authority. This realignment was good for everyone involved
A feat that we mastered together.«
Challenges for data protection in the information economy
With increasing digitization, the importance of
data protection. Trends and innovations such as Industry 4.0, artificial
intelligence, the »metaverse« as a network of networks or the blockchain
Technology with cryptocurrencies and digital uniques play one
increasingly important role in the 21st century. Especially in the pandemic
people's lives are increasingly shifting to the digital world.
Video conferences, intuitive office software, apps and messenger services
are part of everyday life for many citizens.

Page 1 of 3

Street address:
Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Devrientstrasse 5
01067 Dresden

https://www.saechsdsb.de

To reach with the
Tram line 4
(bus stop Am Zwingerteich)

* No access for encrypted
electronic documents. Access
for qualified electronic signatures
Documents only under the on
www.lsf.sachsen.de/eSignatur.html
noted conditions.

However, the algorithms behind these applications only work
with personal data. They are the key for many business models
digitized economy is the essential raw material – nothing works without it. He
is the prerequisite for technical solutions based on artificial intelligence
put. Who bought what when and where was clicked – the intelligence
created from user data.
Andrew Schurig
sees an essential task for the future here:
»Data protection officers must critically monitor this development, intervene,
if data is processed in a disproportionate or inappropriate manner and
contribute constructively to the use of new technologies. It is
important to keep emphasizing that data protection advocates do not essentially
but to protect people's individual rights to freedom.«
Find privacy-compliant solutions with tech giants
Many of the global tech companies have an overwhelming
market power. Office software, browsers, e-mail programs, operating systems
even software like
for PC and smartphone, cloud storage,
graphic editing and especially social media platforms
in
concentrated in the hands of a few companies. “That complicates us
in this country to act in compliance with data protection - especially if the
Companies are based in countries that we do not care about
as safe third countries within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation
can recognize. It will continue to be the job of regulators
be in Germany and the European Union, at the big tech
companies, especially in the USA, to provide data protection-compliant solutions
obtain.«, explains Andreas Schurig.
Better equipment needed
In view of the many challenges, the equipment
the
the
resources
by data protection officers and
Saxon
Data protection officers are often too tight. Andrew Schurig
explains: »On the one hand we have the General Data Protection Regulation
The European Union. It represents a milestone in data protection
- especially for those who do not see data protection as a restriction,
but understand it as protection of freedom. At the same time, we record
Effective date of the ordinance, a steadily increasing revenue from the
Reporting data breaches and complaints about privacy breaches.
This clearly shows how much those responsible
in economics and
administration and the data protection officers still have work to do. same
applies to my authority.«
The successor in office will take over in the new year
On December 21, the Saxon state parliament elected Dr. Juliane Hundert zur
Saxon data protection officer. Her term of office begins on January 1st
2022. Andreas Schurig gladly and confidently hands over his office: »Mine
I wish her successor all the best. She takes on a very dedicated
great and competent team, which in the last months and years
has done amazing things. I wish you an always level-headed and
at the same time lucky hand, much success and God's blessing. At the same time thank you
I would like to thank everyone who has met me on my

Test bench.
the
also the des

privacy advocate

on

page 2 of 3

accompanied and supported along the way. In the future, too, people will be needed
who are committed to data protection. He is essential for one
free society. Data protection is and remains protection of freedom!«
About the Saxon data protection officer
The Saxon data protection officer is the independent one for Saxony
Data protection supervisory authority according to Article 51 paragraph 1 of the data protection
General Regulation (GDPR). This arises with regard to non-public
Bodies (e.g. companies and associations) from § 14 paragraph 2 of the Saxon
Data Protection Implementation Act; with regard to public bodies (e.g.
B. authorities) from § 14 paragraph 1 of the same law.
Andreas Schurig has held the office since 2004 and will be in his office
supported by more than 30 employees in Dresden.
The Saxon Data Protection Officer monitors compliance with the
data protection regulations and handles complaints from citizens
citizens. Other tasks include advising
Saxon responsible for data protection issues.
More information: www.saechsdsb.de

page 3 of 3

