

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of personal data processing (Institute of Clinical and Experimental Medicine)



On the basis of the Office's control plan, the Office carried out an inspection of compliance with the conditions stipulated by Act No. 101/2000 Coll. when processing personal or of sensitive data of patients with cardiovascular disease in the provision of telemedicine care.

The Office focused on fulfilling the information obligation of the administrator of personal data towards the patient in the sense of § 11 paragraphs 1 and 2 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. and on the fulfillment of obligations related to the security of personal, or of sensitive patient data in the sense of § 13 of the said Act (especially technical and organizational measures, risk analysis and control mechanisms, including logging). The Office further checked compliance with the obligations of the controller of personal data according to § 5, paragraph 1 (in particular, the scope of processed data, the period of their retention, ensuring their accuracy, processing only in accordance with the purpose for which they were collected), § 5, paragraph 2 (legal title for processing), § 6 (processing contract), § 12 (data subject access to information), § 20 (disposal of data) and § 21 (access to data, right to explanation and correction) of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The inspection was conducted by inspector PaeDr. Jana Rybínová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Inspection of personal data processing (Institute of Clinical and Experimental Medicine)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



