 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 
2/2022 on the Proposal of 
the European Parliament 
and of the Council on 
harmonised rules on fair 
access to and use of data 
(Data Act) 

 

 

 

  

Adopted  

Adopted on 4 May 2022  

1 

 

Executive summary 

With this Joint Opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS aim to draw attention to a number of overarching concerns on the 
Proposal on Data Act and urge the co-legislature to take decisive action.  

The EDPB and EDPS note  that the Proposal would apply to a broad range of products and services, including the 
connected  objects  (‘Internet  of  Things’),  medical  or  health  devices  and  virtual  assistants.  Certain  products  and 
services may even process special categories of personal data, such as data concerning health or biometric data. As 
the Proposal does not explicitly exclude certain types of data of data from its scope, data revealing highly sensitive 
information about individuals could become the object of data sharing and use according to the rules established 
in the Proposal. 

While  welcoming  the  efforts  made  to  ensure  that  the  Proposal  does  not  affect  the  current  data  protection 
framework,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  additional  safeguards  are  necessary  to  avoid  lowering  the 
protection of the fundamental rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data in practice. First, additional 
safeguards  are  especially  necessary  as  the  rights  to  access,  use  and  share  data  under  the  Proposal  would  likely 
extend to entities other than the data subjects, including businesses, depending on the legal title under which the 
device is being used. Second, the EDPB and EDPS are deeply concerned by the provisions of the Proposal regarding 
the obligation to make data available to public sector bodies and Union institutions, agencies or bodies in case of 
“exceptional need”. Finally, the EDPB and the EDPS are concerned that the oversight mechanism established by the 
Proposal may lead to fragmented and incoherent supervision. 

1. The rights to access, use and share data 

To  limit  the  risks  of  an  interpretation  or  implementation  of  the  Proposal  that  could  affect  or  undermine  the 
application of existing data protection law, the EDPB and the EDPS call on the co-legislator to explicitly specify that 
data protection law “prevails” in case of conflict with the provisions of the Proposal insofar as the processing of 
personal data is concerned. 

In order to promote data minimisation, products should be designed in such a way that data subjects are offered 
the possibility to use devices anonymously or in the least privacy intrusive way as possible, irrespective of their legal 
title on the device. Data holders should also limit as much as possible the amount of data leaving the device (e.g. 
by anonymising data). 

Furthermore, the enhancement of the right to data portability mentioned in  Recital 31 as one of the goals of the 
Proposal would require, in so far as personal data are involved, an effective empowerment of data subjects so to 
give them more control over their personal data. As the definition of ‘user’ encompasses legal persons, in case of 
exercise of this right by a business, this takes the form of a commercial obligation for the manufacturer/data holder 
to provide access to data to businesses and allow its exploitation, rather than the individuals’ ‘right’ to access and 
port their personal data. In fact, according to the concept of ‘user’ adopted by the Proposal,  individuals become 
entitled  to  enhanced  portability  right  only  incidentally,  depending  on  the  legal  title  under  which  they  use    the 
product or the related service (ownership, rental or lease) rather than on  their relationship with the information 
concerning their private use of the product or service.  

Therefore, to achieve an effective empowerment of individuals with regard to their personal data, the concept of 
user in Article 2(5) of the  Proposal and throughout the text needs to be integrated  and specified as follows: (a) 
adding in the definition of users ‘’and the data subjects’’ (b) clearly differentiating the situations where the user is 
the data subject from the situation where the user is not the data subject.   

Adopted  

2 

 

Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend specifying that where the user is not the data subject, any personal 
data generated by the use of a product or related service shall only be made available to the user in compliance 
with in particular Article 6 and 9 GDPR and on the condition that, were relevant, the  requirements of Article 5(3) 
ePrivacy Directive are fulfilled. Similar considerations apply to the making available  of data to third parties upon 
request of a business user. 

The EDPB and the EDPS stress the need to ensure that access, use, and sharing of personal data by users other than 
data subjects, as well as by third parties and data holders, should occur in full compliance with all of the provisions 
of the GDPR, EUDPR and ePrivacy Directive, including informing data subjects about the access by controllers to 
their personal data and facilitating the exercise of data subject rights by controllers. The EDPB and the EDPS also 
recall that it is important to ensure that any further processing of personal data complies  in particular with Article 
6(4) GDPR and, having specific regard to the possibility of automated decision-making, including profiling, with the 
relevant obligations provided under Article 22 GDPR. 

The EDPB and the EDPS also recommend to include in the proposal clear limitations or restrictions on the use of 
personal data generated  by the  use of a  product or service by any entity other than data subjects, in  particular 
where the data at issue are likely to allow precise conclusions to be drawn concerning their private lives or would 
otherwise  entail high risks for the rights and freedoms of the individuals  concerned. In  particular, the  EDPS and 
EDPB recommend to introduce clear limitations regarding use of personal data generated by the use of a product 
or  related  services  for    purposes  of  direct  marketing  or  advertising,  employee  monitoring,  credit  scoring  or  to 
determine  eligibility  to  health  insurance,  to  calculate  or  modify  insurance  premiums.  This  recommendation  is 
without prejudice to any further limitations that may be appropriate, for example to protect vulnerable persons, in 
particular minors, or due to the particularly sensitive nature of certain categories of data (e.g. data concerning the 
use of a medical device or biometric data) and the protections offered by Union legislation on data protection.  

2. The obligation to make data available in case of “exceptional need” 

As regards Chapter V of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS have deep concerns on the lawfulness, necessity and 
proportionality of the obligation to make data available to public sector bodies and Union institutions, agencies or 
bodies in case of “exceptional need”. 

The EDPB and the EDPS recall that any limitation on the right to personal data must be based on a legal basis that 
is  adequately  accessible  and  foreseeable  and  formulated  with  sufficient  precision  to  enable  individuals  to 
understand its scope. In accordance with the principles of necessity and proportionality, the legal basis must also 
define the scope and manner of the exercise of their powers by the competent authorities and be accompanied by 
sufficient safeguards to protect individuals against arbitrary interference. 

The EDPB and the EDPS observe that the circumstances justifying the access are not narrowly specified and consider 
it necessary for the legislator to define much more stringently the hypotheses of emergency or exceptional need. 
Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS consider certain public sector bodies and Union institutions, agencies and bodies 
should be excluded from the scope of Chapter V as such and should only be able to oblige data holders to make 
data available in accordance with the powers provided by sectoral legislation. 

3. Implementation and enforcement  

The EDPB and the EDPS highlight the risk of operational difficulties that might result from the designation of more 
than one competent authority responsible for the application and enforcement of the Proposal. The EDPB and the 
EDPS  have  serious  concerns  that  this  governance  architecture  will  lead  to  complexity  and  confusion  for  both 

Adopted  

3 

 

organisations  and  data  subjects,  to  divergence  in  regulatory  approaches  across  the  Union  and  thus  affect 
consistency of monitoring and enforcement. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  welcome  the  designation  of  the  data  protection  supervisory  authorities  as  competent 
authorities responsible for monitoring the application of the Proposal insofar as the protection of personal data is 
concerned,  which  is  important  to  avoid  inconsistencies  and  possible  conflicts  between  the  provisions  of  the 
Proposal and data protection laws, and to preserve the fundamental right to the protection of personal data as 
established under Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 8 of the 
Charter of fundamental rights of the European Union. 

The EDPB and the EDPS ask the co-legislators to also designate national data protection supervisory authorities as 
coordinating  competent  authorities  under  this  Proposal.  Data  protection  supervisory  authorities  have  a  unique 
expertise, both legal and technical, in the monitoring of the compliance of data processing. Moreover, the EDPB 
and the EDPS are of the opinion that, considering that the GDPR applies when personal and non-personal data in a 
data set are inextricably linked, the role of data protection authorities should prevail in the governance architecture 
of the Proposal. 

Having regard the oversight role of the EDPS as the data protection authority for the European Union institutions, 
bodies and agencies and the fact that some of the European Union institutions, bodies and agencies may also act 
as  user  or  a  data  holder  within  the  meaning  of  this  Proposal,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  including  a 
reference to the EDPS as competent authority for the supervision of the whole Proposal insofar as it concern s the 
Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. 

 

 

Adopted  

4 

 

Table of Contents 

1 

2 

3 

Background ............................................................................................................................................6 

Scope of the opinion .............................................................................................................................7 

Assessment ............................................................................................................................................7 

3.1 

3.2 

3.3 

3.4 

General comments ........................................................................................................................7 

Interplay of the Proposal with EU data protection laws ............................................................9 

Interplay of the Proposal with DMA and DGA ......................................................................... 11 

General provisions (Chapter I of the Proposal) ........................................................................ 12 

3.4.1 

Article 1: Subject matter and scope ................................................................................. 12 

3.4.2 

Article 2: Definitions .......................................................................................................... 12 

3.5 

Business to consumer and business to business data sharing (Chapter II of the Proposal)  13 

3.6 
Obligations for data holders legally obliged to make data available and terms related to data 
access and use between enterprises (Chapter III and IV of the Proposal) ........................................ 17 

3.7 
Access to and use of data by public sector bodies and Union institutions, Agencies or Bodies 
(Chapter V) .............................................................................................................................................. 20 

3.8 

3.9 

 

 

 

International contexts non-personal data safeguards (Chapter VII of the Proposal) ........... 24 

Implementation and enforcement (Chapter IX of the Proposal) ........................................... 24 

 

Adopted  

5 

 

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  and  the  European  Data  Protection 
Supervisor 

Having regard to Article 42(2) of the Regulation 2018/1725 of 23 October 2018 on the protection of 
natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  by  the  Union  institutions,  bodies, 
offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Regulation  (EC)  No 
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC, 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 

HAVE ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING JOINT OPINION 

1  BACKGROUND 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The Proposal on Data Act (“the Proposal”) is enacted pursuant to the  Communication “A European 
Data strategy for data (“the Data Strategy”) 1. 

The European Data Protection Board (“EDPB”) and the European Data Protection Supervisor (“EDPS”) 
notice that, according to the Commission“citizens will trust and embrace data-driven innovation only 
if they are confident that any personal data sharing in the EU will be subject to full compliance with 
the EU’s strict data protection rules”2. 

As  specified  in  its  Explanatory  Memorandum,  the  Proposal  “is  a  key  pillar  and  the  second  major 
initiative announced in the Data Strategy. In particular, it contributes to the creation of a cross-sectoral 
governance framework for data access and use by legislating on matters that affect relations between 
data economy actors, in order to provide incentives for horizontal data sharing across sectors”. The 
specific objectives of the Proposal are the following:  

-  “Facilitate access to and the use of data by consumers and businesses, while preventing incentives 
to invest in ways of generating value through data. 

- Provide for the use by public sector bodies and Union institutions, agencies or bodies of data held by 
enterprises in certain situations where there is an exceptional data need.  

- Facilitate switching between cloud and edges services.  

- Put in place safeguards against unlawful data transfer without notification by cloud service providers. 

-  Provide  for  the  development  of  the  interoperability  standards  for  data  to  be  reused  between 
sectors”3. 

                                                        

1  Communication  from  the  Commission  to  the  European  Parliament,  the  Council,  the  European  Economic  and  Social 
Committee and the Committee of Regions “A European strategy for data”, 19 of February 2020, COM (2020) 66 final. 
2 A European strategy for data, Introduction, page 1. 
3 Explanatory Memorandum, page 3. 

6 

Adopted  

 

2 

SCOPE OF THE OPINION 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

On  23  February  2022,  the  Commission  published  the  Proposal  for  a  Regulation  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council on harmonised rules on fair access to and use of data (“Data Act”) or 
(“the Proposal”).  

On 23 February 2022, the Commission requested a Joint Opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS (“Opinion”) 
on the basis of Article 42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 (EUDPR) on the Proposal.  

The Proposal is of particular importance for the protection of individuals’ fundamental rights and 
freedoms with regard to the processing of their personal data. The scope of the Opinion is limited 
to the aspects of the Proposal related to and involving personal data, which constitute one of the 
main pillars of the Proposal.  

The EDPB and the EDPS welcome Recital 7 of the Proposal, where it is explicitly mentioned that the 
Proposal  complements  and  is  without  prejudice  to  Union  law  on  data  protection  and  privacy,  in 
particular GDPR and e-Privacy Directive.  

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  highlight  that  it  is  necessary  to  ensure  and  uphold  the  respect  and  the 
application  of  the  EU  acquis  in  the  field  of  personal  data  protection.  When  personal  data  are 
involved in the context of the Proposal, it is essential to clearly avoid in the legal text of the Proposal 
any inconsistency and possible conflict with the GDPR, e-Privacy Directive or EUDPR. This not only 
for the sake of legal certainty, but also to avoid that the Proposal has the effect of directly or indirectly 
jeopardizing  the  fundamental  rights  to  privacy  and  the  protection  of  personal  data,  as  established 
under Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of fundamental rights of the European Union (the “Charter”) and 
Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘’TFEU’’). 

Since  the  Proposal,  as  further  explained  in  this  Opinion,  raises  several  concerns  regarding  the 
protection of the fundamental rights to privacy and the protection of personal data,  the aim of this 
Opinion  is  not  to  provide  an  exhaustive  list  of  all  the  issues,  nor  always  to  provide  alternative 
proposals  of  wording  suggestions.  Instead,  this  Opinion  aims  at  addressing  the  main  criticalities, 
with respect to privacy and data protection, of the Proposal. 

3  ASSESSMENT 

3.1  General comments  

The EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge the goal to unleash the potential of information to be extracted 
from data in order to gain valuable knowledge for important common values and for health, science, 
research and climate action. In addition, they highlight that the GDPR already allows for this as far as 
personal data are concerned.  

The  EDPB and the  EDPS  also acknowledge the importance  of and welcomes the aim of providing a 
more  effective  right  to  data  portability,  with  a  view  of  facilitating  innovation  and  promoting 
competition and to empower consumers using products or related services to meaningfully control 
how the data generated by their use of the product or related service are used4. 

                                                        

4 Explanatory Memorandum, p. 13. 

Adopted  

7 

 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

The Proposal aims to lay down harmonised rules on making data generated by the use of a product or 
related service available to the user of that product or  service and on the making data available by 
data holders to data recipients5. The EDPB and EDPS therefore recognise that the envisaged scope of 
application  of the Proposal  does not exclusively concern  personal data,  but instead  would apply to 
both personal and non-personal data that are generated by the use of products are services  within 
the meaning of the Proposal.  

The EDPB and the EDPS note, however, that the enhanced right to portability would extend to a broad 
range of products and services that may reveal highly sensitive data concerning individuals, including 
children  and  other  vulnerable  categories  of  data  subjects.  The  Proposal  explicitly  targets  data 
generated by the IoT and IoB, including vehicles, home equipment and consumer goods, medical and 
health  devices.6 The  data  generated  by  these  connected  objects  will  become  subject  matter  of  the 
data access rights and obligations introduced by the Proposal. As a result, data from the most private 
places and surroundings of data subject may be processed, as well as highly sensitive health data. 

The Proposal does not distinguish between personal data, as defined under Article 4(1) of the GDPR, 
and other non-personal  data in defining the scope  of the rights  of access,  sharing and use  of data. 
Moreover, the rights to access, use and share data under the Proposal would in practice likely extend 
to entities other than the data subject, including businesses, depending on the legal title under which 
the  product  is  used.  The  data  sharing  rights  and  obligations  that  the  Proposal  intends  to  set  up 
therefore  create  a  substantial  risk  of  personal  data  being  collected,  shared  and  used  without 
knowledge of the data subject, notably if not specified according to the recommendations made in 
this Opinion, in particular in case of exercise of the right to data portability by a user other than the 
data subject. Illustrations of problematic use cases include, without being limited to, devices tracking 
the location of products or services carried or operated by data subjects which are not “users” in the 
sense of the Proposal. 

The EDPB and the EDPS are concerned that the Proposal in its current text would extensively push a 
development towards “commodification” of personal data, whereby personal data are seen as a mere 
tradeable  commodity.  This  would  not  only  undermine  the  very  concept  of  human  dignity  and  the 
human-centric  approach  the  EU  wants  to  uphold  in  its  Data  Strategy,  but  it  would  also  risk 
undermining the rights to privacy and data protection as fundamental rights7. 

The EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge and welcome the efforts made to ensure that the Proposal does 
not affect the current data protection regime provided by the GDPR and the ePrivacy Directive. That 
being  said,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  additional  safeguards  are  necessary  to  avoid 
lowering the protection of the fundamental rights to privacy and to the protection of personal data in 
practice. 

In the remainder of this Opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS provide recommendations on how to make 
the relevant data protection principles, safeguards and obligations more effective within the Proposal. 
Given the wide scope of the rights and obligations set out in the Proposal with regard to data access, 
use and sharing, general references to the GDPR are not sufficient.  The EDPB and the EDPS consider 
further  specifications  necessary,  in  particular  where  the  text  of  the  Proposal  risks  giving  rise  to 
misinterpretation  if  a  more  complete  reference  to  data  protection  law  (both  GDPR  and  ePrivacy 

                                                        

5 Article 1(1) of the Proposal.  
6 Recital (14) of the Proposal.  
7 See in this regard also https://edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2021-05/edpb_statementondga_19052021_en_0.pdf  p. 4. 

8 

Adopted  

 

18. 

19. 

20. 

Directive)  is  not  explicitly  highlighted.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that,  absent  such 
specifications, there is a risk that the Proposal lowers the level of protection for data subjects, contrary 
to the stated objectives of Commission. 

These  recommendations  are  also  due  to  the  unclear  scope  (referring  to  non-personal  and/or  to 
personal data) of the rights and obligations to access to, share and use data by data holders, users (as 
non-data subjects) and third parties or recipients laid down in the Proposal. 

Therefore,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  remark  that,  considering  that  the  enhanced  right  to  portability 
would  extend  to  a  broad  range  of  products  and  services  that  may  reveal  highly  sensitive  data 
concerning  individuals,  in  order  not  to  undermine  the  level  of  protection  of  personal  data,  the 
Proposal should expressly and clearly specify that processing of personal data by data holders, users 
(as  non-data  subjects)  and  third  parties  or  recipients  shall  be  subject  to  all  conditions  and  rules 
provided by data protection legislation8. 

3.2 

Interplay of the Proposal with EU data protection laws 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that  Article  1(3)  of  the  Proposal  specifies  that  “Union  law  on  the 
protection of personal data, privacy and confidentiality of communications and integrity of terminal 
equipment shall apply to personal data processed in connection with the rights and obligations laid 
down in this Regulation”, and that the Proposal “shall not affect the applicability of Union law on the 
protection  of  personal  data,  in  particular  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  and  Directive  2002/58/EC, 
including  the  powers  and  competences  of  supervisory  authorities.”  Moreover,  the  same  provision 
establishes that “[i]nsofar as the rights laid down in Chapter II of this Regulation are concerned, and 
where users are the data subjects of personal data subject to the rights and obligations under that 
Chapter, the provisions of this Regulation shall complement the right of data portability under Article 
20 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.” 

21. 

The EDPB and the EDPS very much welcome the objective of Article 1(3) of the Proposal, which is to 
ensure  that  the  application  of  existing  data  protection  rules  and  principles  shall  not  be  affected  or 
undermined. In its Statement on the Digital Services Package and Data Strategy 9, the EDPB called upon 
the Commission to ensure legal certainty and coherence with the existing data protection framework. 
In particular, the EDPB encouraged the Commission to ensure that data protection rules and principles 
shall prevail whenever personal data are being processed. 

22. 

The EDPB and the EDPS positively note that the  compromise text of the Data Governance Act (“the 
DGA”), both in its recitals and enacting terms, explicitly state that in the event of conflict between the 
provisions of the DGA and Union law or national law on the protection of personal data adopted in 
accordance with Union law, the latter should prevail 10. 

23. 

The EDPB and the EDPS strongly recommend amending Article 1(3) of the Proposal to align it with the 
wording of the DGA in order to enhance coherence between the Proposal, the DGA and the existing 

                                                        

8 See in particular paragraph 22, and footnote 8, of the Opinion. 
9 EDPB Statement on the Digital Services Package and Data Strategy, 18 November 2021. 
10 Article 1(2a) and Recital 3a of the Draft regulation on European data governance (Data Governance Act) - text subject to 
revision, December 2021, available at https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2021/11/30/promoting-
data-sharing-presidency-reaches-deal-with-parliament-on-data-governance-act/  

9 

Adopted  

 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

legislation on the  protection  of personal data. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that a reference to  
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 EUDPR should be introduced in Article 1(3) and in Recital 3011. 

The EDPB and the EDPS consider this explicit statement necessary in light of the entities which may 
benefit  from  the  right  to  access,  use  and  share  data  generated  by  the  use  of  products  or  related 
service. The Proposal assigns these rights to the ‘user’, who is defined as ‘a natural or legal person 
that owns, rents or leases a product or receives a [service]’12. Recital 18 clarifies that a user might be a 
business or consumer who has purchased, rented or leased the product. As result, the right to access, 
use  and  share  data  in  practice  is  likely  to  extend  to  entities  other  than  the  data  subject,  including 
businesses, depending on the legal title under which the product is used 13. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recognise  that  entities  other  than  the  data  subject  may  have  a  legitimate 
reason to access data generated by the use of a product or related service. At the same time, the EDPB 
and the EDPS consider that there is also a significant risk that the rights to access, share or use data 
generated by the use of a product or related service could be exercised to unduly interfere with the 
rights  and  freedoms  of  data  subjects.  For  example,  an  employer  that  has  purchased  virtual  voice 
assistants and made them available to its employees could use the right to access in order to access 
their search history.  

To  limit  the  risks  of  an  interpretation  or  implementation  of  the  Proposal  that  could  affect  or 
undermine the application of existing data protection law, the EDPB and the EDPS call on the legislator 
to  strengthen  the  wording  of  Article  1(3)  by  explicitly  specifying  that,  in  case  of  conflict  with  the 
provisions  of  the  Proposal  data  protection  law  “prevails”,  insofar  as  it  concerns  the  processing  of 
personal data. 

Finally, the EDPB and the EDPB also recommend to clearly distinguish in Article(s) 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 of the 
Proposal between the rights of data subjects to access and use data generated by their own use of 
products or related services and the possible rights or obligations of other actors. Access and sharing 
of personal data by users other than the data subject should only be possible insofar as all applicable 
data protection principles and rules allow such processing of personal data 14. 

For  example, the  EDPB and the EDPS would welcome a  Recital stating that, in accordance with the 
GDPR, the performance of a contract can only be a legal ground for processing of personal data if the 
data subject is a party or if steps are being taken at the request of the data subject prior to entering 
into a contract. Furthermore, this  Recital should also  mention that the requirement  of ‘necessity’  is 
not satisfied by the mere inclusion of a contractual clause providing for the processing. The controller 
should be able to  demonstrate how the  main  subject-matter  of the specific  contract with the data 

                                                        

11 While Article 1(2)d of the Proposal indicates that this Regulation applies to “public sector bodies and Union institutions, 
agencies or bodies that request data holders to make data available where there is an exceptional need to that data for the 
performance  of  a task carried out in the public interest and the data holders that provide those  data in response to such  
request” (i.e. EUIs making requests pursuant Chapter V), it does not exclude EUIs from the notion of “user” nor of the notion 
of  “recipient”.  In  any  event,  any  request  emanating  from  a  EUI  should  also  comply  with  the  EUDPR  (in  addition  to  the 
requirements set forth in Chapter V). 
12 Article 2(5) of the Proposal refers to ‘a services’, but should be corrected to refer to the singular ‘service’.  
13 See also Recital 18 of the Proposal. 
Insofar as it concerns personal data, the nature of the enhanced right to data portability needs to be clarified: 
in case of exercise of this  right by a business, this would be about the commercial obligation for the  manufacturer/data 
holder to provide access to data to business, subject to all conditions and limits of the GDPR, rather than a ‘right’ to port and 
have processed personal data. 

10 

Adopted  

 

subject  cannot,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  be  performed  if  the  specific  processing  of  the  personal  data  in 
question does not occur15. 

3.3 

Interplay of the Proposal with DMA and DGA  

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

The  EDPB and the  EDPS  note that the Proposal aims at  complementing16 the Proposal for a Digital 
Markets Act (‘DMA’)17 and the DGA18. 

The EDPB and the EDPS observe that undertakings designated as gatekeepers under the DMA shall 
not be eligible third parties for the data sharing pursuant to the Proposal19. 

The EDPB and the EDPS note that the Proposal does not clarify the interplay with some key provision 
of the DMA related to data sharing, notably with Article 6(1)(h) 20 and Article 6(1)(i)21 of the DMA. In 
this  regard,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  aligning  the  Proposal  to  the  final  text  of  the  DMA 
agreed by the co-legislators. 

The EDPB and the EDPS consider in particular that certain constraints on  types of data to be made 
available, for instance query, click and view data (from online searches) referred to in Article 6(1)(j) of 
the  DMA,  to  be  made  available  in  anonymised  form22,  should  also  apply,  mutatis  mutandis,  in  the 
context of data sharing related to queries made to virtual assistants. 

33.  Having  regard  to  the  DGA,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  remark  that  the  Proposal  includes  a  different 
definition than the one found in the in the DGA for the term ‘data holder’ 23, which may create legal 
uncertainty. Moreover, the definition of “data holder” in the Proposal should be further clarified 24. 

34. 

The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the enacting terms of the Proposal should further clarify if, and 
subject to which conditions, a ‘data recipient’25 can be a ‘provider of data sharing services’26 (or ‘data 
intermediation service’27) as referred to in the DGA. Recital 35 refers to the case where the third party 

                                                        

15 EDPB 2/2019 Guidelines on the processing of personal data under Article 6(1)(b) GDPR on the context of the provision of 
online services to data subjects Version 2.0, adopted on 8 October 2019.  
16 Explanatory Memorandum of the Proposal, pages 4 and 5. 
17 COM(2020)842 final. 
18 COM(2020) 767 final. 
19 Article 5(2) of the Proposal. 
The EDPB and the EDPS also note the exclusion from the scope of the enhanced right to data portability of data generated 
by the use of products or related services provided by micro or small enterprises pursuant to Article 7(1). 
20 Article 6(1)(h) of the DMA Proposal, which would require gatekeepers among others to provide tools for end-users to 
facilitate the exercise of data portability, in line with GDPR, including by the provision of continuous and real-time access 
Note: at the moment of drafting, 1/4/2022, there is not yet any publically available copy of the compromise text (contrary 
to the DGA). 
21 Article 6(1)(i) of the DMA Proposal which would require gatekeepers to provide continuous and real -time access to and 
use of aggregated or non-aggregated only where directly connected with the use effectuated by the end-user in respect of 
the products or services offered by the relevant business user through the relevant core platform service, and when the end-
user opts in to such sharing with a consent in the sense of the GDPR. 
22 See also EDPS Opinion 2/2021 on the Proposal for a Digital Markets Act, 10 February 2021, paragraph 32, page 12, “the 
gatekeeper shall be able to demonstrate that anonymised query, click and view data have been adequately tested against 
possible re-identification risks.” 
23 The Proposal contains a definition of ‘data holder’ under Article 2(6); the Proposal for the DGA under Article 2(5). 
24 The meaning of “through control of the technical design of the product and related services” might need to be specified. 
25 As defined under Article 2(7) of the Proposal. 
26 ‘data intermediation service providers’ in the Council compromise text, LIMITE, 10 December 2021 [to be checked, updated 
once/if a public version is available] 
27 See Article 9 of the Proposal for a Data Governance Act (DGA). 

11 

Adopted  

 

is a provider of a data intermediation service within the meaning of the DGA, and further specifies 
that in this case the safeguards for the data subject provided for by the DGA apply. However, the 
substance  of  Recital  35  of the  Proposal  is  not  mirrored  by  a  provision  in  the  enacting  terms  of  the 
Proposal.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  specifying  the  specific  safeguards  for  data  subjects 
contained in the DGA that would be applicable to the data sharing from data holders to third parties 
as intermediaries pursuant to the Proposal. Moreover, in line with the remarks made in section 3.2, 
the Proposal should specify that these safeguards  complement the ones laid down in the GDPR, as 
well as in the e-Privacy Directive28, and notably in accordance with this Directive, the requirement of 
consent of the end-user to the data processing by the third party. 

3.4  General provisions (Chapter I of the Proposal) 

3.4.1  Article 1: Subject matter and scope 

35. 

The EDPB and the EDPS note that, due to the use of very broad concepts, such as ‘product’ and ‘related 
services’  in  Article  1(1)  of  the  Proposal,  the  scope  is  also  very  broad  and  could  benefit  from  more 
clarity29. 

36.  Article 1 (4) of the Proposal states that it shall not affect Union and national legal acts providing for 
the  sharing,  access  and  use  of  data  for  the  purpose  of  the  prevention,  investigation,  detection  or 
prosecution  of  criminal  offences  or  the  execution  of  criminal  penalties,  including  Regulation  (EU) 
2021/784 and the [e-evidence proposals [COM(2018) 225 and 226] nor shall it affect the respective 
provisions of Directive(EU) 2015/849 and of the Regulation (EU) 2015/847. Finally, the competences 
of  the  Member  States  regarding  activities  concerning  public  security,  defence,  national  security, 
customs and tax administration and the health and safety of citizens in accordance with Union law are 
not either affected by the proposal.   

37. 

38. 

It is however unclear if Article 1 (4) of the Proposal has any relevant interplay with these Regulations 
and  this  Directive.  To  state  that  the  Proposal  does  not  affect  these  laws  does  not  mean  that  data 
processing operations under the Proposal cannot be used for the purposes of these laws. The EDPB 
and  EDPS  recommend  to  further  specify  the  possible  interplays  with  the  abovementioned  legal 
frameworks30. 

3.4.2  Article 2: Definitions 

The definition of ‘data’ under Article 2(1) of the Proposal could, depending on the nature of the data 
at hand, also include personal data, implying that rules in the Proposal may apply next to the GDPR. 
The term data is used in the Proposal indistinctively to refer to personal and non-personal data, which 
may lead to confusion. For instance, the reference in Recital 24 to the possibility for data holders to 
use data generated by the user on the basis of a contractual agreement does not clarify which type of 
data  it  refers  to.  If  this  example  refers  also  to  personal  data,  it  is  incomplete  with  regard  to  the 
obligations that controllers have pursuant to the GDPR, and could therefore be easily misinterpreted.  

                                                        

28 ePrivacy Directive: Art. 5(3). 
29 See WP29 opinion 8/2014 on the recent developments on the internet of things, adopted on 16 September 2014. 
30 See also section 3.7 of the Opinion Regarding access to and use of data by public sector bodies and Union institutions, 
agencies or bodies pursuant to Chapter V of the Proposal.  

12 

Adopted  

 

39. 

40. 

41. 

The EDPB and EDPS therefore recommend the co-legislator to supplement Article 2 of the  Proposal 
with a definition of ‘personal data’ (as defined by GDPR) and ‘non personal data’. In a similar fashion, 
the EDPB and EDPS recommend to add definitions of ‘data subject’ and ‘consent’ into Article 2 of the 
Proposal,  as  these  terms  are  frequently  used  in  the  Proposal  and  the  recitals.  Article  2  (5)  of  the 
Proposal defines ‘user’ as a natural or legal person that owns, rents or leases a product or receives a 
service. For the sake of clarity and to achieve an effective empowerment of individuals with regard to 
their personal data, the EDPB and EDPS recommend to add to this definition “and the data subject” 
(and to include a definition of data subject as having the same meaning  as in the GDPR) as well as to 
clearly differentiate the situations where the user is the data  subject from the situation where the 
user is not the data subject.  

3.5  Business to consumer and business to business data sharing (Chapter  II of the 

Proposal) 

Chapter II of the Proposal relates to data generated by the use of products or related services. The 
Proposal defines a “product” as “a tangible, movable item [...] that obtains, generates or collects, data 
concerning  its  use  or  environment,  and  that  is  able  to  communicate  data  via  a  publicly  available 
electronic  communications  service  and  whose  primary  function is  not  the  storing  and  processing  of 
data”.  A  ‘related  service’,  in  turn,  is  defined  as  “a  digital  service,  including  software,  which  is 
incorporated in  or inter-connected with a product in such a way that its absence would prevent the 
product  from  performing  one  of  its  functions”.  Moreover,  the  Proposal  clarifies  in  Article  7(2)  that 
where the Proposal refers to products or related services, such reference shall also be understood to 
include virtual assistants31, insofar as they are used to access or control a product or related service.   

The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the definition of product overlaps, in part, with the  notion of 
“terminal  equipment” 32 within  the  meaning  of  Article  5(3)  ePrivacy  Directive.  Article  5(3)  of  the 
ePrivacy Directive requires consent of the subscriber or user prior to the storing of information, or the 
gaining of access to information already stored, in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or end-user, 
unless such storage or access is strictly necessary in order for the provider of an information society 
service to provide the service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user. Moreover, any processing 
operations of personal data following these processing operations, including processing personal data 
obtained  by  accessing  information  in  the  terminal  equipment,  must  also  have  a  legal  basis  under 
Article 6 GDPR in order to be lawful 33. 

                                                        

31 Article 2(4) provides the definition of virtual assistant.  
32 According  to  Article  1(1)(a)  of  Commission  Directive  2008/63/EC  of  20  June  2008  on  competition  in  the  markets  in 
telecommunications terminal equipment, “terminal equipment” includes “equipment directly or indirectly connected to the 
interface of a public telecommunications network to send, process or receive information; [...] ”. 
See also EDPB Guidelines 02/2021 on virtual voice assistants, Version 2.0, adopted on 7 July 2021, para. 25: “In accordance 
with  the  definition  of  “terminal  equipment”,  smartphones,  smart  TVs  and  similar  IoT  devices  are  examples  for  terminal 
equipment. Even if VVAs in themselves are a software services, they always operate through a physical device such as a smart 
speaker  or  a  smart  TV.  VVAs  use  electronic  communications  networks  to  access  these  physical  devices  that  constitute 
“terminal equipment” in the sense of the e-Privacy Directive. Consequently, the provisions of Article 5 (3) e-Privacy Directive 
apply whenever VVA stores or accesses information in the physical device linked to it”. 
33 See  EDPB  Guidelines  1/2020  on  processing  personal  data  in  the  context  of  connected  vehicles  and  mobility  related 
applications, paragraph 41 for similar reasoning regarding connected vehicles (“EDPB Guidelines 1/2020”). See also EDPB, 
Opinion 5/2019 on the interplay between the e-Privacy Directive and the GDPR, in particular regarding to competence, tasks 
and powers of data protection authorities. 

13 

Adopted  

 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

The EDPB and the EDPS positively note the clarification provided by Recital 15 of the Proposal, which 
clearly  indicates  that  products  such  as  personal  computers,  servers,  tablets  and  smart  phones, 
cameras, webcams, sound recording systems and text scanners would not be covered by the Proposal. 
That being said, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that Article 2(2) of the Proposal defines a “product” 
in such (broad) terms that such devices might in fact fall within the scope of the definition included in 
the enacting terms of the Proposal. The EDPB and the EDPS therefore consider it necessary to amend 
the  definition  of  “product”  so  as  to  clearly  exclude  products  such  as  personal  computers,  servers, 
tablets and smart phones, cameras, webcams, sound recording systems and text scanners, also in the 
enacting terms of the Proposal34. 

The EDPB and the EDPS positively note that Article 4(5) of the Proposal lays down that where the user 
is not a data subject, any personal data generated by the use of a product or related service shall only 
be made available by the data holder to the user where there is a valid legal basis under Article 6(1) 
of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  and,  where  relevant,  the  conditions  of  Article  9  of  Regulation  (EU) 
2016/679 are fulfilled. As the Proposal assigns the right to access and use data generated by the use 
of products or related services to “users” (which encompasses entities other than  data subjects), the 
EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  such  clarification  constitutes  an  important  safeguard.  As  the 
lawfulness of processing of personal data is governed by Article 6 GDPR as a whole, however, the EDPB 
and the EDPS recommend to replace the reference to Article 6(1) GDPR in Article 4(5) of the Proposal 
by a reference to Article 6 GDPR as a whole and more in general to all rules conditions provided by 
data protection legislation. Moreover, as access to data generated by the use of products or related 
services may also involve access to information stored on the terminal equipment of a subscriber or 
user, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend clarifying that data shall only be made available by the data 
holder  to  the  user  on  the  condition  that,  were  relevant,  the  conditions  of  Article  5(3)  ePrivacy 
Directive are fulfilled.  

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recall  that  where  consent  is  required  pursuant  to  Article  5(3)  ePrivacy 
Directive, consent under Article 6 GDPR would be most probably the adequate legal basis in relation 
to  any  processing  of  personal  data  following  the  storing  of  information,  or  gaining  access  to, 
information already stored in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or user35. 

Similar considerations apply to the making available of data to third parties upon request of a business 
user  under  Article  5(6)  of  the  Proposal.  In  addition,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  to  further 
align the wording of Article 5(6) with Article 4(5) of the Proposal, by stipulating that data generated 
by the use of a product or related service shall only be made available “by the data holder to the third 
party”  where  all  conditions  and  rules  provided  by  data  protection  legislation  are  complied  with, 
notably where there is a valid legal basis under Article 6 and where relevant, the conditions of Article 
9 the GDPR and Article 5(3) of the ePrivacy Directive are fulfilled. 

46.  As a result, the EDPB and the EDPS stress the need to ensure that access, use, and sharing of personal 
data by users other than data subjects should occur in full compliance with all the GDPR and ePrivacy 
obligations, including informing data subjects about the access by controllers to their personal data 
and facilitating the exercise of data subject rights by controllers.  

                                                        

34 The EDPB and EDPS wish to underline that the finding that the definition of “product” in the Proposal overlaps, in part, 
with  the  definition  of  “terminal  equipment”  within  the  meaning  of  Article  5(3)  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive,  should  not  be 
understood as recommendation to revise the definition of “product” to align it with the definition of “terminal equipment”.  
35 See  EDPB  Guidelines  1/2020  on  processing  personal  data  in  the  context  of  connected  vehicles  and  mobility  related 
applications, paragraph 27. 

14 

Adopted  

 

47.  Having regard, in particular, to Article 3(1) and 4(1) of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS consider 
that, in order to promote data minimisation, products should be designed in such a way that the data 
subjects (irrespective of their legal title on the device) are offered the possibility to use the products 
covered by the Proposal,  in particular Internet of Bodies (“IoB”) or Internet of Things (“IoT”) devices 
anonymously or in the least privacy intrusive way as possible. Data holders should also limit as much 
as possible the amount of data leaving the device (e.g. by anonymising data).36 The Proposal should 
clearly specify this aspect in order to strengthen control by the data subjects on their personal data. 
Article 3(2)(a) of the Proposal, referring to the obligation to provide information to the user on the 
nature and volume of data likely to be generated by the use of the product, should not be interpreted 
as adversely affecting the GDPR data minimisation principle.  Finally, the EDPB and the EDPS note that 
Article 3 should clearly indicate which entity/ entities shall be required to comply with the obligations 
listed in Article 3(1) and Article 3(2) of the Proposal. In the interest of legal certainty, the EDPB  and 
EDPS  recommend  to  indicate  clearly  which  entity/entities  shall  be  responsible  for  each  of  the 
obligations listed.  

48. 

49. 

The EDPB and the EDPS note that the limitation on keeping records on business access to data under 
Article  4(2)  and  on  third  parties’  access  to  data  under  Article  5(3)  of  the  Proposal  should  not  be 
interpreted  as  adversely  affecting  the  GDPR  obligations  on  security  of  personal  data  and  on 
accountability. These provisions should clearly specify this important aspect. 

The EDPB and the EDPS also note that, pursuant to Article 5(9)37 of the Proposal, the right of the user 
to share data with third parties “shall not affect data protection rights of others”. In this regard, the 
EDPB  and  the  EDPS  stress  the  need  to  clarify  the  scope  and  the  meaning  of  this  provision. 
Furthermore, in order to ensure consistency with the right of the data subjects under Article 20 GDPR 
that the Proposal aims at complementing, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend referring in a Recital to 
the  criteria  for  balancing  the  right  to  portability  with  data  protection  concerns  related  to  other 
persons laid down in the EDPB guidelines on data portability38. 

50.  Article 6 of the Proposal specifies that third parties shall process data made available to them pursuant 
to Article 5 only for the purposes and the conditions agreed with the user, and subject to the rights of 
the data subject insofar as personal data are concerned, and shall delete the data when they are no 
longer necessary for the agreed purpose. Moreover, Article 6(2)(b) provides that the third party shall 
not use, data for profiling of data subjects, unless it is necessary to provide the service requested by 
the user. Having regard to the scenario of the user being an entity other than the data subject, the 
EDPB and the EDPS recall that it is important to ensure that any further processing of personal data 
complies  with  Article  6(4)  GDPR  and,  having  specific  regard  to  the  profiling  scenario,  with  the 
relevant  obligations  provided  under,  with  Article  22  of  the  GDPR,  where  applicable.  In  case  of 
processing  of  special  categories  of  personal  data  (e.g.  such  as  data  concerning  health  or  sex  life), 
explicit  consent  by  the  data  subject  will  in  principle  be  required,  unless  another  exception  to  the 
prohibition contained in Article 9 GDPR can be invoked. Where Article 5(3) of the ePrivacy Directive 
applies, the data should only be processed with the consent of the subscriber or user, unless strictly 

                                                        

36 See WP29 opinion 8/2014 on the recent developments on the internet of things, adopted on 16 September 2014. 
37 Article 4 of the Proposal should contain a similar provision having regard to Article 4(1).  
38 See WP29 (endorsed by EDPB) Guidelines on the right to data portability, at pages 11-12. 

15 

Adopted  

 

51. 

52. 

53. 

54. 

55. 

necessary in order to provide an information society service explicitly requested by the subscriber or 
user39. 

For the sake of legal certainty, and to avoid a possible interpretation according to which the relevant 
data  protection  rules  in  the  context  of  the  obligations  to  process  personal  data  by  third  parties 
pursuant to Article 6(1) of the Proposal are only the ones referring to data subjects’ rights (Chapter III 
of the GDPR), as also recommended in paragraphs 43 and 45 of the Opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS 
recommend  complementing  the  wording  in  Article  6(1)  referring  to  the  GDPR  “and  subject  to  the 
rights of the data subject insofar as personal data are concerned”, replacing it by the following: “and 
where  all  conditions  and  rules  provided  by  data  protection  legislation  are  complied  with,  notably 
where there is a valid legal basis under Article 6 and where relevant, the conditions of Article 9 of  the 
GDPR and Article 5(3) of ePrivacy Directive  are fulfilled and subject to the rights of the data subject 
insofar as personal data are concerned.” 

Concerning  Article  6(2)(a),  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  welcome  the  prohibition  for  the  third  party  to 
coerce, deceive or manipulate the user in any way.40 The EDPB and EDPS also welcome the reference 
to so-called ‘dark patterns’ in Recital 34 of the Proposal. The EDPB and EDPS note, however, that the 
factors that might affect decision-making may be different depending on whether or not the user is 
also the data subject. The EDPB and EDPS therefore recommend making explicit that Article 6(2)(a) 
of  the  Proposal  prohibits  any  form  of  coercion,  deception,  or  manipulation  of  data  subjects 
(regardless of whether the user is also the data subject). 

Similar considerations apply in relation to Article 6(2)(b) of the Proposal: the third party should not be 
allowed to use the data it receives for profiling of natural persons unless it is necessary to provide the 
service requested by the data subject. In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that “the service” 
to be provided by the third party as requested by the user (which may be an entity other than the data 
subject) is not defined in the Proposal. It is therefore possible that such ‘services’ could entail a serious 
interference with the rights and freedoms of individuals or otherwise have a significant impact on the 
persons concerned. 

Therefore EDPB and the EDPS recommend to include in the proposal clear limitations or restrictions 
on the use of personal data generated by the use of a product or service by any entity other than the 
data subject (either as “user”, “data holder” or “third party”), in particular where the data at issue is 
likely to allow precise conclusions to be drawn concerning their private lives or would otherwise entail 
high risks for the rights and freedoms of the individuals concerned.  

In particular, the EDPS and EDPB recommend to introduce limitations regarding use of personal data 
generated by the use of a product or related services for purposes of direct marketing or advertising, 
employee  monitoring, credit scoring or to determine  eligibility to health insurance,   to calculate  or 
modify insurance premiums. This recommendation is without prejudice to any further limitations that 
may be appropriate, for example to  protect vulnerable  persons, in particular  minors, or  due to the 
particularly sensitive nature of certain categories of data (e.g. data concerning the use of a medical 
device) and the protections offered by Union legislation on data protection.  

                                                        

39  See  also  EDPB  guidelines  on  processing  personal  data  in  the  context  of  connected  vehicles  and  mobility  related 
applications, Version 2.0, adopted on 9 March 2021, paragraph 15. 
40 As specified by Recital 34, referring to so-called ‘dark patterns’. 

16 

Adopted  

 

56.  Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS recall as a general principle that also third party as a controller is 
subject  to  the  principle  of  data  minimisation  and  that  anonymisation  techniques  shall  be  used 
whenever possible. Compliance with  the data minimisation principle is particularly important in  the 
case of data capable of revealing intimate aspects of an individual’s private life41. 

57. 

58. 

59. 

60. 

3.6  Obligations  for  data  holders  legally  obliged  to  make  data  available  and  terms 
related  to  data access and  use  between  enterprises  (Chapter  III  and  IV  of the 
Proposal) 

Chapter  III  addresses  the  conditions,  including  compensation,  under  which  data  shall  be  made 
available where a data holder is obliged to make data available to a data recipient as in Chapter II or 
in other Union law or Member State legislation.  

In this regard, Article 8 of the Proposal foresees no role for, or reference to the data subject as terms 
and conditions for data sharing have to be determined in an agreement between the data holder and 
the data recipient. Indeed, in cases where the user is an entity other than the data subject, the latter 
is not part of the contract under the Proposal. This risks to severely compromise the effectiveness of 
data protection rights. Further risks in this context may stem from intermediation services and data 
brokerage, which could relate  data that  originally may  be  considered  non-personal  to specific  data 
subjects42. 

In any case, the EDPB and the EDPS stress that the right to the protection of personal data enshrined 
in  Article  16(1)  TFEU  and  in  Article  8  of  the  Charter,  as  a  right  related  to  each  natural  person,  is 
inalienable and cannot be waived by any agreement between the data holder and the data recipient 43. 

Pursuant to Article 8(3) of the Proposal the data holder shall not discriminate between “comparable 
categories of data recipients” and, as per Article 8(4) of the Proposal, the data holder cannot make 
data  available  to  a  data  recipient  on  an  exclusive  basis.  These  obligations  however  should  not 
undermine the right of informational self-determination of data subjects according to which they are 
entitled to discriminate among the recipients of their personal data (notably, when they consent to 
the  processing,  for  instance  in  case  the  conditions  of  Article  5(3)  of  the  ePrivacy  Directive  are 
applicable  or  the  processing  relies  on  consent  under  Article  6  GDPR).  Therefore,  the  EDPB  and  the 
EDPS call for a wording which effectively enhances data holders’ and data recipients’ compliance with 
the GDPR. In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend that the clarification provided in Recital 
41 according to which these obligations are without prejudice to the GDPR is included in the text itself 
of Article 8. 

61. 

Pursuant to Article 9 of the Proposal, any compensation required by the data holder to third parties 
has to be reasonable, and for SMEs it cannot exceed the costs incurred for making the data available, 
unless otherwise specified in sectoral legislations.  

                                                        

41 See EDPB  statement on the Digital Services Package and Data Strategy, adopted on 18 November 2021, stressing “the 
importance  of the obligation of  data  protection by design and by default, which is particularly relevant in the context of 
‘connected  objects’  (e.g. the Internet of Things  and the Internet of Bodies), due to the significant risks to the fundamental 
rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.” 
42 The more non-personal data are combined with other available information, the more the re-identification risk for data 
subjects increases. See EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 03/2021 on the Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and 
of the Council on European data governance (Data Governance Act), page 16. 
43 See the EDPB Statement on the Digital Services Package and Data Strategy adopted on 18 November 2021, page 6.  

17 

Adopted  

 

62.  Regarding Article 9 of the Proposal on the compensation for making data available, the EDPB and the 
EDPS  strongly  recommend  to  waive  any  ambiguity  concerning  the  monetary  transactions 
accompanying  the  sharing  of  personal  data.  According  to  Recital  42  of  the  proposal,  the  right  to 
require compensation for making data available to third parties “should not be understood as paying 
for the data itself but in the case of micro, small or medium-sized enterprises, for the costs incurred 
and investment required for making the data available”. This statement, however, read in conjunction 
with  Recital  46  seems  to  imply  that,  on  the  contrary,  in  the  case  of  data  sharing  between  large 
companies, or when the data holder is a small or medium-sized enterprise and the data recipient is a 
large company the right for data holder to set ‘reasonable compensation’ to be met by third parties, 
may be considered as an incentive to monetise personal data. 

63. 

64. 

In this respect, he EDPB and the EDPS reiterate that data protection is a fundamental right guaranteed 
by Article 8 of the Charter and personal data cannot be considered as a tradeable commodity.  

In cases where parties disagree on the terms and conditions of making data available, the  Proposal 
envisages  alternative  ways  of  resolving  disputes  that  may  arise  between  data  holders  and  data 
recipients. According to Article 10 of the  Proposal, these  parties can  seek the assistance  of dispute 
settlement bodies certified by the Member States. However, where personal data are made available 
to third parties upon a request of users who are not the data subjects, the latter would be completely 
excluded  from  the  participation  to  dispute  settlement  proceedings  concerning  the  sharing  of  their 
personal  data  between  the  data  holder  and  the  data  recipient.  In  addition,  given  the  complex 
interactions  and  overlaps  between  the  data  subject’s  rights  under  the  GDPR  and  the  rights  and 
obligation established by the Proposal, it should  be taken into consideration that the parties’ decision 
to submit a dispute to a dispute settlement body may  interfere with the data subject’s right to lodge 
a complaint with a supervisory authority. 

65.  More  in  general,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  strongly  recommend  stating  clearly  that  the  dispute 
settlement under Article 10 shall not encroach upon data subject’s rights and controllers’ processor 
obligations  established  under  the  GDPR.  In  addition,  paragraphs  5  and  9  of  Article  10  must  be 
amended so as to take into account that data subjects shall not be prevented from their right to seek 
redress before a supervisory authority. 

66. 

The Proposal also encourages the application by the data holder of appropriate technical protection 
measures,  including  smart  contracts,  to  prevent  unauthorised  access  to  the  data  and  to  ensure 
compliance  with  the  rights  and  obligations  arising  from  the  proposal  as  well  as  with  the  agreed 
contractual terms for making data available (Article 11). In this regard, it should be clarified how smart 
contracts  can  constitute  the  means  to  provide  data  holders  and  data  recipients  with  adequate 
guarantees that the transmitted data is prevented from unauthorised disclosure or  access and that 
the agreed terms and conditions for sharing this data are fulfilled. In order to ensure consistency with 
Article  32  of  the  GDPR,  the  EDPS  and  the  EDPB  underline  that  to  the  extent  that  personal  data  is 
involved,  paragraph  1  of  Article  11  must  include  a  reference  to  the  obligation  of  implementing 
appropriate technical and organisational measures so as to ensure a level of security appropriate to 
the risk of the personal data processing.  

67. 

Concerning Article 11(2) the EDPB and the EDPS recommend stating clearly that, insofar as it concerns 
personal  data,  the  data  holder’s  authorisation  to  share  data  cannot  replace  the  requirement  of  an 
appropriate legal basis according to the GDPR or alternatively specifying that this authorisation applies 
in case of processing of non-personal data. Moreover, the same paragraph has to be amended in order 
to  establish  that  any  instruction  from  the  data  holder  or  the  user  (who  is  not  necessarily  the  data 

18 

Adopted  

 

subject) to destroy the data made available to the data recipients and any copies thereof must not be 
of prejudice to the data subject’s right to restriction of processing under Article 18 of the GDPR. 

68.  With regard to the exceptions envisaged by paragraph 3 of Article 11, the Proposal should clarify how 
and by whom the situations  described  under letter a) and  b) can  be judged applicable. In addition, 
these exceptions must take into account not only the harm to and the interests of the data holder but 
also and primarily the harm to the data subjects as well as their rights and interests with regard to 
their rights to privacy and data protection. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to add in 
Article 11 a new paragraph explicitly stating that paragraph 2(b) shall apply in case of possible harm 
to data subjects or prejudice to their rights and interests. 

69. 

Finally, the reference in Article 12(1) to the data holder’s obligation, under Article 5 of the Proposal, 
to make data available upon a user’s request, suggests that as far as personal data is concerned, and 
despite what’s said in Recital 24 when the user is an entity other than the data subject 44, the Proposal 
could  be  interpreted  as  creating  a  legal  basis  under  Article  6(1)(c)  of  the  GDPR  for  the  sharing  of 
personal data. Therefore, appropriate, specific and effective safeguards for the protection of the rights 
and interests of data subjects as far as personal data are concerned should be added especially where 
the user is not the data subject. Consequently, given the complex interactions and overlaps between 
the data subject’s rights under the GDPR and the rights and obligation established by the  Proposal, 
Article 12(2) of the proposal should be amended in order to specify that any contractual term in a data 
sharing  agreement  between  data  holders  and  data  recipients  which,  to  the  detriment  of  the  data 
subjects, undermines the application of their rights to privacy and data protection, derogates from it, 
or varies its effect, shall not be binding on that party.  

70. 

In Chapter IV, Article 13 of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS highlight that the Proposal state that 
“a contractual term is unfair if it is of such a nature that its use grossly deviates from good commercial 
practice in data access and use, contrary to good faith and fair dealing.” Similarly to what is mentioned 
above, regarding the consistency of the definitions with the GDPR, this provision is not clear enough 
given the fact that the concept of personal data or non-personal data or mixed data sets is not clear 
throughout the text.  

71.  Data  access  and  use  constitute  processing  of  personal  data  pursuant  to  Article  4(2)  of  the  GDPR. 
Therefore,  when  personal  data  are  involved  in  the  processing,  the  obligations  of  the  GDPR  for 
controllers and processors shall apply. The same applies to the cases where mixed data sets (i.e. both 
personal and non-personal data) are involved.  

72. 

To this purpose, the EDPB and the EDPS urge the co-legislature to clarify in the Proposal the relevant 
requirements and obligations of controllers and processors where personal data are processed, in the 
manner specified in this Opinion45. 

                                                        

44 Recital 5 of the Proposal when it states that the latter  “should not be interpreted as recognising or creating any legal basis 
for the data holder to hold, have access to   process (personal) data…” seems to be in contraction with Article 5 of the 
Proposal  establishing    the  data  holder’s  obligation  to  make  data  available  upon  a  user’s  request,  since  according  to  the 
definition  under  Article  4(2)  GDPR,  the  ‘processing’  of  personal  data  encompasses  any  operation  or  set  of  operations 
performed on personal data or on sets of personal data, including “disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise 
making available…”.. However, if Recital 5 concerns the data processing by the data holder for its own purposes, this should 
be clarified.  
45 See in particular at paragraphs 39-39 and 67 of this Opinion. See also at paragraphs 43, 45, 46 and 51 of this Opinion. 

19 

Adopted  

 

3.7  Access to and use of data by public sector bodies and Union institutions, Agencies 

or Bodies (Chapter V) 

73.  As  regards  the  ‘making  data  available’  to  public  sector  bodies  and  Union  institutions,  agencies  or 
bodies (‘public sector bodies’) based on ‘exceptional need’ (Chapter V of the Proposal), the EDPB and 
the EDPS have serious concerns on the lawfulness, necessity and proportionality of the obligation to 
make data available to public sector bodies and Union institutions, agencies or bodies. 

74.  Article 14 of the Proposal provides that, upon request, a data holder (exception made for SMEs) shall  
make data available to a public sector body or to Union institution, agency or body demonstrating an 
exceptional need to use the data requested. The Proposal does not refer to legislative measures to 
be  adopted  to  provide  the  legal  basis  for  this  obligation.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that  Article 
1(2)(d) of the Proposal refers to a task carried in the public interest.46 In the same vein, Article 15(c) 
of the Proposal refers to a task carried in the public interest “that has been explicitly provided by law”. 
This  suggests  that  the  Proposal  envisages  Article  6(1)(c)  GDPR  as  a  lawful  basis  for  the  processing 
carried out by the relevant public sector body, Union institution, agency or body. The EDPB and the 
EDPS note, however, that neither the relevant tasks of public interest, nor the public sector bodies, 
Union institutions, agencies  or bodies who  have been tasked with these  missions  of public interest 
have been clearly identified by the Proposal. Instead, the Proposal sets out a number of conditions 
that would give rise to a legal obligation for the data holder to provide personal data.  

75.  Article  17(1)(d)  of  the  Proposal  provides  that,  when  requesting  data  pursuant  to  Article  14(1),  the 
public sector body or Union institution, agency or body shall state in the request  the legal basis for 
requesting the data. In the interest  of legal certainty, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that Article 
17(1)(d) should specify that the request shall clearly indicate the legal provision that explicitly assigns 
the  task  of  public  interest  to  the  public  sector  body,  Union  institution,  agency  or  body  making  the 
request. 

76.  Article 15 of the Proposal specifies three possible alternative scenarios where the exceptional need to 
use data is deemed to exist.  As for cases (a) and (b) of Article 15 of the Proposal, the EDPB and the 
EDPS consider that the requirement “explicitly provided by law” should be explicitly included, since 
any limitation on the right to personal data must be “provided for by law” (Article 52(1) of the Charter, 
as confirmed by consolidated case law of the CJEU).  

77. 

Limitations  must  be  based  on  a  legal  basis  that  is  adequately  accessible  and  foreseeable  and 
formulated with sufficient precision to enable individuals to understand its scope. In accordance with 
the principles of necessity and proportionality, the legal basis must also define the scope and manner 
of  the  exercise  of  the  power  by  the  competent  authorities  and  be  accompanied  by  sufficient 
safeguards to protect individuals against arbitrary interference47. 

78.  Against  this  background,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  observe  in  the  first  place  that  the  circumstances 
justifying  the  access  are  not  narrowly  specified.  The  Proposal  refers  to  “exceptional  need”,  which 
would justify the request of data, relating to a “public emergency” (which is broadly defined48). The 
EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that  Recital  57  specifies  that  the  existence  of  a  public  emergency  is 

                                                        

46 See also Recital (5) of the Proposal. 
47 See, among others, CJEU, C-175/20, “SS” SIA v. Valsts ieņēmumu dienests, ECLI:EU:C:2022:124, para. 83. 
48 Article 2(10) defines a ‘public emergency’ as “an exceptional situation negatively affecting the population of the Union, a 
Member State or part of it, with a risk of serious and lasting repercussions on living conditions or economic stability, or the 
substantial degradation of economic assets in the Union or the relevant Member State(s) 

20 

Adopted  

 

79. 

80. 

81. 

determined according to the respective procedures in the Member States or of relevant international 
organisations.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  including  this  important  specification  in  the 
operative part of the Proposal. In addition, the EDPS and EDPB consider it necessary for the legislator 
to define much more stringently the hypotheses of emergency or exceptional need. The definition 
of  “public  emergency”  contained  in  Article  2(10)  of  the  Proposal  should  therefore  be  amended  to 
more clearly delineate the types of situations that would constitute a public emergency.   

The scenario under letter (c) of Article 15 of the Proposal is actually presenting two very different use 
cases: a first one in which access to the data would be granted to fulfil a public interest; a second one 
in which access to the data would be granted to reduce administrative burden. With regard to the first  
use case, referring to the lack of available data prevents the public sector body from fulfilling a specific 
task in the public interest is particularly problematic having regard to the requirement of ‘quality of 
law’ (including foreseeability) providing for interferences with fundamental rights. As for the second 
use  case, the mere reduction of the administrative burden can difficultly outweigh the impact on 
the fundamental rights and freedoms of the persons concerned. At the same time, it would not fulfil 
the  requirement  of  the  necessity  of  the  interference  on  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms.  In  this 
regard, the EDPB and the EDPS advocate in particular a more explicit delimitation of the circumstances 
in which the request can be made. 

The EDPB and EDPS note that the categories of personal data to be accessed by public sector bodies 
are not sufficiently specified49. However, the obligation to provide data could extend to personal data 
from  devices  forming  the  IoT  50 and  the  IoB.  Such  information  could  concern  special  categories  of 
personal data and other sensitive data such as location that would enable to draw intimate inferences 
on the data subject’s life. 

The EDPB and the EDPS also note that the safeguards for data subjects are not adequately spelled out 
in  the  Proposal.  In  particular,  Article  17(2)(c)  of  the  Proposal  (which  concerns  the  content  of  the 
requests for data by the public authority) refers to respect for the legitimate aims of the data holder, 
but not to the risks for the rights and freedoms of the data subject. According to Article 19(1)(b) of the 
Proposal, the public sector body  having received data shall implement, technical and organisational 
measures that safeguard the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. In this regard, the EDPB and 
the EDPS stress that the aforesaid measures shall be taken first and foremost  at the moment of the 
collection of data, rather than following data transmission. 

82.  Article  17(2)(d)  of  the  Proposal  specifies  that  the  request  shall  concern,  insofar  as  possible,  non-
personal data. This safeguard is accompanied by the provision under Article 18(5), according to which 
where compliance with the request requires disclosure of personal data, the data holder  shall take 
reasonable  efforts  to  pseudonymise  the  data,  insofar  as  the  request  can  be  fulfilled  with 
pseudonymised data. The EDPB and the EDPS consider that Article 18(5) should be amended so that 
the data holder is required to pseudonymise the data, not just “to take reasonable efforts”. Therefore, 
the EDPB and the EDPS call the co-legislator to delete the reference to “to take reasonable efforts” 
since  this  reference  seems  to  limit  the  data  holder’s  obligation  and  recall  that.  Pseudonymisation 
mitigates  risks  for  the  data  subjects  by  reducing  the  amount  of  personal  data  processed  and  the 
impact of an eventual data breach. In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend the co-legislator 
to  take  into  account  that  other  appropriate  safeguards  according  to  the  GDPR  may  need  to  be 

                                                        

49 Recital 56 refers to “data held by an enterprise”. 
50 Recital 14. 

Adopted  

21 

 

implemented by the data holder, notably adequate technical and organizational measures ensuring   
minimization, integrity and confidentiality of personal data. 

83.  More broadly, the EDPB and the EDPS observe that the public sector body enjoys a  broad discretion 
when requesting data pursuant to the Proposal, since it is its request (and not the Proposal itself) that 
specifies among others: what data are required (Article 17(1)(a)); the ‘exceptional need’ (letter (b)), 
which  only  in  case  of  public  emergency  is  determined  according  to  established  procedures;  the 
purpose of the request, as well as the intended use and the duration ‘of the use’ (letter c)). 

84. 

The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the Proposal should more clearly define the scope and manner 
of  the  exercise  of  the  power  by  the  public  sector  body  to  protect  individuals  against  arbitrary 
interference51. In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that, according to case law of the CJEU52, 
the  legislation  providing  the  legal  basis  for  the  measures  at  stake  must  lay  down  clear  and  precise 
rules  governing  the  scope  and  application  of  the  measure  in  question  and  imposing  minimum 
safeguards, so that the persons whose personal data is affected have sufficient guarantees that data 
will  be  effectively  protected  against  the  risk  of  abuse.  That  legislation  must  indicate  in  what 
circumstances and under which conditions a measure providing for the processing of such data may 
be adopted, thereby ensuring that the interference is limited to what is strictly necessary. The need 
for such safeguards is all the greater where the protection of the  special categories of personal data 
is at stake. 

85.  Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS note that according to Article 17(3) of the Proposal, public sector 
bodies  shall  not  make  data  available  for  reuse  within  the  meaning  of  Directive  (EU)  2019/1024. 
Article 17(4), however, would allow the exchange of data between public sector bodies in the pursuit 
of the tasks referred to in Article 15 or the sharing of data with third parties in cases of outsourcing of 
‘technical inspections or other functions’ by public sector bodies. Given the broad scope of Article 15, 
the limitation on reuse of data, including personal data, is not defined in a sufficiently narrow way. 
Moreover, Recital 65 of the Proposal specifies that “Data made available to public sector bodies and 
to Union institutions, agencies and bodies on the basis of exceptional need should only be used for the 
purpose  for  which  they  were  requested,  unless  the  data  holder  that  made  the  data  available  has 
expressly agreed for the data to be used for other purposes.” The EDPB and EDPS recall that insofar as 
the  request  concerns  personal  data,  any  processing  for  a  purpose  other  than  that  for  which  the 
personal data have been collected would be governed by Article 6(4) GDPR and/or Article 6 EUDPR, 
notwithstanding  any  expression  of  agreement  by  the  data  holder.  Therefore,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS 
recommend amending the said provisions accordingly. 

86.  Article  21  of  the  Proposal  would  allow  further  transmission  of  the  data  by  public  sector  bodies  to 
natural or legal persons in view of carrying out research related to the purpose for which data was 
requested. The EDPB and the EDPS recall the need for  appropriate safeguards, taking into account 

                                                        

51 See  in  this  regard,  EDPS  Guidelines  on assessing  the  proportionality  of  measures  that  limit  the  fundamental  rights  to 
privacy and to the protection of personal data, 19 December 2019, referring among others to the following safeguards: the 
notification to the person affected; the provision for the data to be retained in the European Union; the provision for the 
irreversible destruction of the data at the end of the retention period. See also CJEU, C-175/20, “SS” SIA v. Valsts ieņēmumu 
dienests, ECLI:EU:C:2022:124, para. 64, but also para. 83 and 84. 
52 See CJEU, C-623/17, Privacy International v Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, ECLI:EU:C:2020:790, 
para. 68. 

22 

Adopted  

 

87. 

88. 

the potentially sensitive nature of the data at issue, in accordance with Article 89 GDPR and Article 13 
EUDPR. 

The EDPB and the EDPS also recall, as indicated in the EDPB Statement on the Digital Services Package 
and Data Strategy, that “particular attention should be paid to the safeguards for processing for the 
purposes  of  scientific  research,  ensuring  lawful,  responsible  and  ethical  data  management,  such  as 
vetting requirements for researchers who will have access to large amounts of potentially sensitive 
personal data”53. The EDPB and the EDPS recommend integrating these requirements in the Proposal. 

Concerning Article 18 of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the reference to “sectoral 
legislation” (defining specific needs on the availability of data under Article 18(2)) should be specified. 
A specific remark concerns Article 18(6), establishing the competence of the authority referred to in 
Article  31  in  case,  among  others,  of  challenges  against  the  execution  of  the  request.  Since  the 
requesting authority can be an EU Institution, agency or body, Article 31 should include the EDPS and 
a reference to Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. A reference should also be included in this provision to the 
notification of the request to the data subject and to the possibility for the data subject (not only for 
the data holder) to challenge the request, as well to her or his right to an effective  judicial remedy 
against the request. 

89. 

Concerning Article 19 of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS observe that the  broad definition of 
purposes  also  dilutes  the  safeguard  under  Article  19(1)(a).  Moreover,  the  data  retention  period 
applicable depending on the purpose of the data processing should be clearly defined from the outset. 

90.  Article 16(2) of the Proposal specifies that “the rights from this Chapter shall not be exercised by public 
sector bodies in order to carry out activities for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution 
of criminal or administrative offences or the execution of criminal penalties, or for customs or taxation 
administration. ‘’This Chapter does not affect the applicable Union and national law on the prevention, 
investigation,  detection  or  prosecution  of  criminal  or  administrative  offences  or  the  execution  of 
criminal or administrative penalties, or for customs or taxation administration (emphasis added).  

91.  As a preliminary remark, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the provision in Article 16(2) is not aligned 
with Article 1(4), which specifies that the Proposal, in all its provisions, shall not affect a number of 
data processing activities and of competences that partially differ from the ones identified in Article 
16(2). Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS note that  Recital 60 of the Proposal already confirms that 
public  sector  bodies and Union institutions, agencies and bodies  should  rely on their powers under 
sectoral legislation for the exercise of their tasks in the areas of prevention, investigation, detection 
or prosecution of criminal and administrative offences, the execution of criminal and administrative 
penalties, as well as the collection of data for taxation or customs purposes.  

92.  Given  the  specific  nature  and  mission  of  public  sector  bodies  and  Union  institutions,  agencies  and 
bodies that carry out such tasks of public interest, however, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that such 
entities  should  be  excluded  from  the  scope  of  Chapter  V  as  such.  Indeed,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS 
consider  that  such  entities  should  only  be  able  to  oblige  data  holders  to  make  data  available  in 
accordance  with  the  powers  provided  exclusively  by  sectoral  legislation.  Moreover,  in  particular  as 
regards  Union  institutions,  agencies  and  bodies,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  recommend  explicitly 

                                                        

53 EDPB Statement on the Digital Services Package and Data Strategy, adopted on 18 November 2021, page 7.  

23 

Adopted  

 

identifying those entities that would be able to request data in accordance with Chapter V, having due 
regard to the their competences as set out in their founding acts, in the enacting terms of the Proposal. 

93. 

These  recommendations  are  without  prejudice  to  the  need  to  sufficiently  specify  the  overly  broad 
definition of ‘public emergency’ in Article 2(10) that would justify the exercise of the power of access 
to data. 

94. 

95. 

3.8 

International  contexts  non-personal  data  safeguards  (Chapter  VII  of  the 
Proposal) 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  welcome  the  provisions  of  the  Proposal  relating  to  data  access  which  are 
limited to only non-personal data and seem to mirror the provisions of Article 48 of the GDPR. The 
EDPB and the EDPS note that in substance Article 27 primarily concerns access requests rather than 
transfers. The notion of “transfer” has a specific meaning under the GDPR that entails obligations to 
frame them.  In order to avoid any confusion with respect to  non-personal data, the EDPB and the 
EDPS suggest to refer only to access and remove the notion of transfer from this article. 

In addition, a clarification would be  useful as to the interplay  between the Article 27(1) and Article 
27(2) and 27(3) of the Proposal. The EDPB and the EDPS welcome the statement in article 27(1) which 
covers any risk of governmental access to non-personal data that would create a conflict with Union 
law  or  the  national  law  of  the  relevant  Member  State.  However,  the  final  wording  of  provision, 
"without  prejudice  to  paragraph  2  or  3"  should  be  revised  to  make  clear  that  even  if  there  is  no 
request, the measures provided in paragraph 1 have to be put in place in any case, i.e. irrespective of 
any request for access to data by a third country. Indeed, as the information regarding a request is not 
always available, it is important to put in place the measure to avoid such possibility of access. The 
EDPB and the EDPS also question whether the word “reasonable” in paragraph 1 does not reduce the 
impact of the measures. The EDPB and the EDPS would suggest to remove the word “reasonable” in 
order  to  ensure  the  efficiency  of  such  measures  or  replace  it  by  a  more  compelling  term  such  as 
“necessary”.  

96.  Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS note that according to Article 27(3) of the Proposal, providers of 
data processing services receiving a decision to transfer or give access to non-personal data held in 
the  Union  by  a  court  or  an  administrative  authority  of  a  third  country  may  ask  the  opinion  of 
competent  authorities  or  bodies  pursuant  to  the  Proposal  in  order  to  determine  whether  the 
applicable access conditions are  met. The EDPB and the EDPS welcome this provision requiring the 
consultation of the competent authority in specific cases. However, the consequences of the opinion 
of  the  competent  authority  are  not  specified  in  the  provision.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  therefore 
suggest to add that "If the opinion of the competent authorities concludes that the conditions are not 
met, in particular because the decision concerns commercially sensitive data or affects the interests of 
the Union or its Member States in matters of national security or defence, then the recipient  shall not 
provide access to the data". 

3.9 

Implementation and enforcement (Chapter IX of the Proposal) 

97.  As a general comment regarding the provisions on governance of this Regulation, the EDPB and the 
EDPS  would  like  to  underline  the  risks  posed  by  the  Proposal  which  does  not  harmonize  the 
supervision  of  the  application  of  this  Regulation  between  Member  States,  does  not  provide  for  a 
European  consistency  mechanism  that  could  ensure  the  consistent  application  of  this  Regulation 
within the internal market, nor provides harmonized penalties, thus risking forum shopping.  

24 

Adopted  

 

98.  Article 31 of the Proposal provides that each Member State shall designate one or more competent 
authorities  as  responsible  for  the  application  and  enforcement  of  the  Data  Act,  and  that  Member 
States may  establish one or more new authorities or rely on  existing authorities. The EDPB and the 
EDPS highlight the risk of operational difficulties that might result from the designation of more than 
one  competent  authority  responsible  for  the  application  and  enforcement  of  this  Regulation.  The 
EDPB  and  the  EDPS  have  serious  concerns  that  this  draft  governance  architecture  will  lead  to 
complexity  and  confusion  for  both  organisations  and  data  subjects,  divergence  in  regulatory 
approaches across the Union and thus affect the consistency in terms of monitoring and enforcement. 

99.  Regarding the sectoral authorities, the provision of Article 31(2)(b)  is quite vague and does not  give 
sufficient guidance regarding the allocation of responsibilities between competent authorities, data 
protection authorities and  sectoral authorities related to the implementation  of the Proposal, thus 
raising  a  risk  of  overlapping  and  conflict  of  attribution.  For  example,  the  precise  role  of  national 
authorities  responsible  for  the  enforcement  of  consumer  protection  (mentioned  in  Recital  82  and 
Articles 36 and 37 of this Regulation) is  not defined in  Chapter IX  of the  Proposal. The powers and 
tasks  of  the  different  competent  authorities  should  be  clearly  defined,  notably  regarding  the 
enforcement  of  the  different  provisions  of  the  Proposal.  As  an  example,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS 
recommend that the co-legislators determine which authority shall be responsible for the application 
and enforcement of Chapter IV of the Proposal on unfair terms related to data access and use between 
enterprises.  Moreover,  the  interplay  between  the  governance  model  of  the  Proposal  and  those 
provided by sectoral legislations (e.g. with the competent authorities established by the Health Data 
Space Regulation) should be  made clearer and more detailed in order to  ensure legal certainty and 
avoid confusion. 

100.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  welcome  the  designation  of  data  protection  supervisory  authorities  as 
competent  authorities  responsible  for  monitoring  the  application  of  the  Proposal  insofar  as  the 
protection  of  personal  data  is  concerned  (Article  31(2)(a)).  This  designation  is  important  to  avoid 
inconsistency and possible conflict between the provisions of this Regulation  and the GDPR, and to 
preserve the fundamental right to the protection of personal data as established under Article 16 TFEU 
and  Article  8  of  the  Charter.  However,  the  competence  of  the  supervisory  authorities  is  “without 
prejudice  to  paragraph  1”.  It  is  unclear  how  such  provision  could  affect  the  competence  of  data 
protection supervisory authorities and sectoral authorities. Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS call the 
co-legislator to modify this provision so to remove any ambiguity.  

101.  Moreover,  it  is  unclear  how  Article  31(1)  interacts  with  Article  31(4)  of the  Proposal.  The  Proposal 
provides  many  scenarios,  which  lack  clarity.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  the  Proposal  as 
currently drafted could lead to conflicts of attribution, complexity for organisations and data subjects, 
as well as fragmented supervision between Member States. Therefore, for the sake of clarity, the EDPB 
and the EDPS recommend the deletion of the reference to “without prejudice to paragraph 1 of this 
Article” (Article 31(2)). The EDPB and the EDPS also strongly recommend the co-legislators to clarify 
Article 31(1) and 31(4) and set out clear provisions on the designation of competent, data protection, 
sectoral and coordinating authorities, on the attribution of responsibilities between these authorities 
and cooperation mechanism. Notably, the EDPB and the EDPS flag the absence of defined powers and 
tasks of the coordinating competent authority in the Proposal, and recommend that the co-legislator 
rectify that. 

102.  Article 31(3) of the Proposal lays down the obligation of Member States to ensure that the respective 
tasks and powers of the competent authorities designated pursuant to paragraph 1 of said Article are 
clearly defined. The EDPB and the  EDPS note that many of these powers and tasks  are similar with 
25 

Adopted  

 

those  attributed  to  data  protection  supervisory  authorities  according  to  Article  58  of  the  GDPR. 
Nevertheless, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that Article 31(3) of the Proposal does not harmonize 
tasks  and  powers  of  competent  authorities  among  Member  States  and  the  interplay  between  this 
provision and the GDPR is not clear. Furthermore, it is unclear how these tasks and powers listed in 
Article  31(3)  of  the  Proposal  will  affect  the  tasks  and  powers  exercised  by  the  data  protection 
supervisory authorities when monitoring the application of this Regulation insofar as the protection 
of personal data is concerned. It could be understood from Article 31(2)(a) that the tasks and powers 
of data protection supervisory authorities shall be those established by Chapter VI and VII of the GDPR. 
However, it is unclear whether new tasks and powers are to be assigned to these authorities by the 
Proposal, and if this is the case how the latter will interact with the tasks and powers assigned to the 
data  protection  supervisory  authorities  by  the  GDPR.  To  ensure  clarity  and  consistency  of  the 
monitoring, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to clearly define the envisaged role of data protection 
supervisory authorities in the context of the Proposal.  

103.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  welcome  Article  31(6)  of  the  Proposal,  which  establishes  that  competent 
authorities shall remain free from any external influence and shall neither seek nor take instructions 
from  any  other  entity.  In  order  to  clarify  and  strengthen  this  provision,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS 
recommend to explicitly mention the independent nature of competent authorities in the Proposal. 

104.  According to Article 32(1) of the Proposal, without prejudice to any other administrative or judicial 
remedy,  natural  and  legal  persons  shall  have  the  right  to  lodge  a  complaint,  individually  or,  where 
relevant,  collectively,  with  the  relevant  competent  authority  in  the  Member  State  of  their  habitual 
residence, place of work or establishment if they consider that their rights under this Regulation have 
been infringed.  

105.  The right to lodge a complaint pursuant to Article 32 may raise operational difficulties as it is unclear 
how  natural  or  legal  persons  will  determine  if  personal  data  are  concerned  and  which  authority  is 
competent to handle their complaint. The EDPB and the EDPS strongly recommend that the legislator 
provide  a  clear  and  precise  cooperation  mechanism  for  the  handling  of  complaints  between 
competent  authorities  (i.e.  data  protection  supervisory  authorities,  sectoral  authorities  and 
coordinating authorities), and  establishes a clear port of entry for complainants. The EDPB and the 
EDPS consider that Articles 32(2) and 32(3) are insufficient, and do not provide enough  information 
neither for complainants nor for supervisory authorities. The EDPB and the EDPS recommend that the 
coordinating authorities be designated as point of entry for all complaints related to this Regulation, 
with the task to distribute it to relevant other authorities. The EDPB and the EDPS notably recommend 
to explicitly mention that Chapter VIII of the GDPR is not affected by this Article. 

106.  It is also unclear how this Provision will interact with the one-stop-shop mechanism provided by Article 

56 of the GDPR for cross-border processing as far as personal data are concerned. 

107.  Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS note the absence of specific provisions on the right to effective 
judicial remedy by any affected natural or legal person with regard to a failure to act on a complaint 
lodged with competent authorities, as well as with regard to decisions of competent authorities under 
this Proposal. This might lead to parallel and inconsistent regimes between the enforcement under 
the GDPR (for which a right to effective judicial remedy is provided) and the Proposal.  

108.  The EDPB and the EDPS note that Recital 82, Articles 36 and 37 of the Proposal establish the possibility 
to  make  use  of  the  EU  consumer  protection  cooperation  network  mechanism  and  to  enable 
representative actions by amending the Annexes to the Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 and Directive (EU) 

26 

Adopted  

 

2020/1828.  It  is  unclear  how  and  to  what  extent  the  consumer  protection  cooperation  network 
mechanism will interact with this Article right to lodge a complaint. 

109.  With regard to Article 33, the EDPB and EDPS note that the Proposal does not harmonize the penalties 
for infringements of the Proposal (nor specifies the violations that shall be sanctioned, the fines for 
the infringements of its provisions, nor the authorities or bodies competent to apply such penalties). 
For example, it is unclear how and which authority will be responsible for the enforcement of Article 
5(2) which prohibits gatekeepers from acting as a third party with whom a user can share its data, and 
what penalties will be applicable. The EDPB and the EDPS recommend that the co-legislator clarifies 
the interplay between the Proposal and the DMA regarding the enforcement of this provision and the 
penalties applicable. 

110.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  notice  that  this  provision,  limiting  the  enforceability  of  the  Proposal  (the 
capability to impose harmonised sanctions), and possibly also giving raise to forum-shopping for the 
most lenient Member State, is prejudicial to the stated aim of the Proposal to ensure fairness in the 
allocation of value from data among actors in the data economy. 

111.  With regard to Article 34, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend that the Commission shall consult the 
European Data Protection Board when developing and recommending non-binding model contractual 
terms on data access and use, as far as personal data as concerned. 

112.  Finally,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  the  absence  of  a  European  cooperation  framework  in  the 
Proposal.  Considering  the  impact  of  the  Proposal  across  Member  States,  and  the  high  quantity  of 
cross-border processing that might fall under the scope of this Regulation, it is quite surprising that 
this  Proposal  does  not  provide  a  clear  European  cooperation  mechanism  in  order  to  ensure  its 
consistent application among Member States (especially with respect to the handling of complaints  
and  taking  into  account  the  possible  involvement  of  different  sectoral  competent  authorities).  The 
EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that  Article  31(3)(f)  of  the  Proposal  is  insufficient  in  this  sense  and 
recommend the co-legislator to establish clear rules in order to facilitate the cooperation between the 
different authorities involved. 

113.  The EDPB and the EDPS welcome the designation of national data protection authorities as competent 
authorities  responsible  for  monitoring  the  application  of  the  Proposal  insofar  as  the  protection  of 
personal  data  is  concerned,  and  ask  the  co-legislators  to  also  designate  national  data  protection 
authorities as coordinating competent authorities under this Proposal.  

114.  Data protection authorities have a unique expertise, both legal and technical, in the monitoring of the 
compliance of data processing, in providing guidance to digital players and data subjects, and in the 
use of inter-regulation mechanism, placing them at the core of the digital regulation landscape.  

115.  Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion that, considering that the GDPR applies when 
personal  and  non-personal  data  in  a  data  set  are  inextricably  linked,  the  role  of  data  protection 
authorities should prevail in the governance architecture of this Proposal. The co-legislators should 
make sure that this governance reflects the prevalence of the fundamental right to the protection of 
personal  data  established  under  Article  16  TFEU  and  Article  8  of  the  Charter,  and  preserves  the 
independence of data protection authorities. 

116.  The designation of coordinating competent authorities other than data protection authorities could 
affect consistency in terms of monitoring the application of the provisions of the  GDPR and lead to 
real complexity for digital players and data subjects. 

27 

Adopted  

 

117.  The EDPB and the EDPS note that the EDPS is only mentioned in Article 33(4) of the Proposal, which 
refers to penalties (for infringements of provision on public bodies’ access to data, Chapter V) and is 
not listed as a “competent authority” in Article 31 of the Proposal. Having regard the EDPS oversight 
role as the data protection authority for the European Union institutions, bodies and agencies and the 
fact that some of the European Union institutions, bodies and agencies may also act as user or a data 
holder within the meaning of this Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend including a reference 
to  the  EDPS  as  competent  authority  in  Article  31(2)(a)  for  the  supervision of  the whole  Proposal 
insofar as it concerns the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. Moreover, it should be 
clarified that, where relevant, Article 62 of Regulation 2018/1725 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 

 

 

Brussels, 4 May 2022 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

For the European Data Protection Supervisor 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

 

The European Data Protection Supervisor 

(Wojciech Wiewiorowski) 

 

Adopted  

28 

