At the request of the members of the Croatian Employers' Association, and with the aim of better informing employers and entrepreneurs about regulations that are difficult to apply in practice, within the framework of the EU project ARC 2, the Agency for Personal Data Protection, in cooperation with the HUP Regional Office in Osijek, is organizing 3 consultations on the topic: “How to prepare for the supervision of the AZOP?” according to the following schedule:

5.09. Tuesday Slavonski Brod – Great Hall of the Brod-Posavina County, Petra Krešimira IV 1, Slavonski Brod, 10:00 – 13:00 hours  
06.09. Wednesday Vinkovci – Hall on the 1st floor of the Vinkovci Business Incubator, Dragutina Žanića Karle 16, Vinkovci, 10:00 – 13:00 hours  
07.09. Thursday Antunovac – Conference Hall on the 2nd floor of the Antunovac Business Incubator and Accelerator, Economic Zone Antunovac 23, Antunovac, 10:00 – 13:00 hours  

The aim of the General Data Protection Regulation is to protect the personal data of individuals, provide citizens with control over their personal data, and create a high and uniform level of personal data protection in the European Union. The General Data Protection Regulation defines the rights of individuals and, accordingly, the obligations of entities that process personal data. All business entities that collect, store, and in any way process the personal data of Croatian citizens and citizens from the European Economic Area are obliged to apply the General Data Protection Regulation.

After more than 5 years of full application of the GDPR, numerous supervisory and educational activities carried out by the Agency have clearly shown that the level of compliance with the legislative framework for data protection in the Republic of Croatia is not at a satisfactory level. The Agency continuously provides support primarily to personal data protection officers and micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises through EU projects ARC and ARC2. It is high time for companies, public authorities, and all data controllers/processors to understand that the deadline for adaptation has long passed and that after 5 years from the start of full application of the GDPR, ignorance and lack of knowledge can no longer serve as justification and excuse for violating the fundamental rights of Croatian and European citizens. Furthermore, on this occasion, the Agency wishes to highlight the key role that data protection officers have in the personal data protection system, as they are often the weakest link.

In addition to appropriate knowledge in the field of personal data protection, officers must have a good understanding of the business processes of the organization in which they work, continuously educate themselves, and also educate employees in the organization where they act as officers. The aim of organizing this consultation is to provide data controllers and processors and data protection officers with the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the latest trends and examples of good practice in the field of personal data protection, share with AZOP experts the problems they encounter in the application of the GDPR, and with their support find solutions that will raise the level of compliance in their organizations to a higher level. The Agency emphasizes that investing in personal data protection and information security is no longer just a necessary and desirable investment, but has become an essential and indispensable investment for successful business operations. The GDPR has come to stay, and data protection will become increasingly important in the era of big data and artificial intelligence, as evidenced by the example of the ban on Chat GPT in Italy.

PROGRAM  
“How to prepare for the supervision of the AZOP?”  
10:00 – 10:10 Introductory speeches  
representative of HUP Regional Office Osijek  
representative of the Agency for Personal Data Protection  
10:10 – 11:00 “10 key steps for GDPR compliance for micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises: implementation of GDPR based on practical examples”  
Iva Katić, mag.iur, Head of the Legal Advisory, Cooperation and Projects Department and Chairwoman of the Commission for Imposing Monetary Fines, Agency for Personal Data Protection  
11:00 – 12:00 “Aligning business processes with GDPR: where do entrepreneurs make the most mistakes and how to stop making mistakes?”  
Iva Katić, mag.iur, Head of the Legal Advisory, Cooperation and Projects Department and Chairwoman of the Commission for Imposing Monetary Fines, Agency for Personal Data Protection  
12:00 – 13:00 “Supervisory and investigative activities of the AZOP: how to demonstrate reliability and compliance with GDPR?”  
Siniša Kovačić, Head of the Supervision, Investigations, Technology, and Security Department, Agency for Personal Data Protection  

This interactive workshop is primarily intended for micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises, but also for all interested parties.  
Participation in the workshop is free of charge.  
Due to a limited number of places, please register your participation by Wednesday, September 6, 2023, by 12:00 noon via email at: hup-osijek@hup.hr