Supervision of reporting breaches of personal data security: The National Board of Appeal
Date: 08-12-2020
Decision
Public authorities
In the supervision of the National Board of Appeal, the Danish Data Protection Agency concludes that the National Board of Appeal's processing of personal data is generally organized and carried out in accordance with the rules in the Data Protection Ordinance.

Journal number: 2019-421-0029
Summary
In November 2020, the Danish Data Protection Agency completed 15 planned inspections to shed light on the data controllers' ability to make the relevant reports of breaches of personal data security. In general, it has been gratifying to be able to state that all the data controllers examined have focused on the task, where in the respective organizations there was the necessary knowledge and routine, so that security incidents were intercepted and reported.
Criticism has been expressed in two of the cases: Both incidents were notifiable breaches of personal data security, which were only classified as security incidents. The specific assessment of whether there was a processing of information on natural persons was not made correctly by the actor in question.
The National Board of Appeal was among the public authorities that the Danish Data Protection Agency had chosen in the spring of 2019 to supervise in accordance with the Data Protection Ordinance [1] and the Data Protection Act [2].
The Data Inspectorate's inspection was a written inspection, which focused in particular on whether the National Board of Appeal reports breaches of personal data security in accordance with Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Ordinance. And whether the Agency fulfills the requirement to document all breaches of personal data security, cf. Article 33, para. 5.
In connection with the supervision, the National Board of Appeal has also, at the request of the Danish Data Protection Agency, generally reported on the Agency's training of employees - in relation to handling breaches of personal data security - in order for the Agency to comply with Article 33 of the Data Protection Ordinance.
The Danish Data Protection Agency's supervision was notified to the National Board of Appeal by letter dated 11 March 2019, and the Board was requested on the same occasion to e.g. to answer a series of questions.
By letter dated 14 March 2019, the National Board of Appeal sent a statement in which the Agency, in connection with the answers to the Danish Data Protection Agency's questions, sent documentation (in the form of several documents) that highlights all registered information security incidents, including all registered breaches of personal data security. from 25 May 2018 to and including 8 March 2019. The National Board of Appeal's reply was also accompanied by an extract from the National Board of Appeal's intranet and a document with points of attention, which the Board uses to comply with Article 33 of the Data Protection Ordinance.
Decision
Following the supervision of the National Board of Appeal, the Danish Data Protection Agency finds reason to conclude in summary that the National Board of Appeal's processing of personal data is generally organized and carried out in accordance with the rules in Article 33 of the Data Protection Ordinance.
In the opinion of the Danish Data Protection Agency, the National Board of Appeal has thus implemented the measures necessary to be able to comply with the requirements of Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Ordinance. 1, and thereby ensure that breaches of personal data security are detected in the organization and registered, so that these are always assessed with a view to whether the breach must be reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency.
Furthermore, the Danish Data Protection Agency finds that the National Board of Appeal has complied with the requirements of Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Ordinance. 5.
In addition, the Danish Data Protection Agency's assessment is that the National Board of Appeal has carried out appropriate training activities, e.g. in order to be able to support the identification and management of breaches of personal data security.
It also appears from the case that the National Board of Appeal has initiated various activities with a view to educating and informing employees about data protection, including the handling of breaches of personal data security.
Below is a more detailed review of the information that has emerged in connection with the audit and a justification for the Danish Data Protection Agency's decision.
2. Notification of breaches of personal data security
A breach of personal data security is defined in Article 4 (12) of the Data Protection Regulation as a breach of security leading to accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of or access to personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise treated.
It also follows from Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation (1) that in the event of a breach of personal data security, the controller shall, without undue delay and if possible within 72 hours after the controller has become aware of the breach of personal data security, notify the supervisory authority competent in accordance with Article 55, unless the breach of personal data security is unlikely to involve a risk to the rights or freedoms of natural persons. If the notification to the supervisory authority is not made within 72 hours, it must be accompanied by a reason for the delay.
In the Agency's statement of 14 March 2019 to the Danish Data Protection Agency, the National Board of Appeal has stated that in the period from 25 May 2018 to and including 8 March 2019, a total of 124 information security incidents have been registered with the Agency. According to the National Board of Appeal, all 124 information security incidents are categorized as actual breaches of personal data security, cf. Article 4, no. 12 of the Data Protection Ordinance. to report the breach to the Danish Data Protection Agency.
During the audit, the Danish Data Protection Agency has taken a position on whether the National Board of Appeal has complied with the requirement that all relevant breaches of personal data security have been reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency, cf. Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Ordinance. 1.
With regard to the 124 incidents, the Danish Data Protection Agency has received 32 of them as reports of breaches of personal data security. After reviewing a representative sample of the 92 incidents which have been categorized by the National Board of Appeal as breaches of personal data security, but which have not been reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency, the Authority can agree with the Agency's assessment that the incidents in question can be characterized as breaches of personal data security. Article 4 (12) of the Data Protection Regulation, but that these are not subject to the obligation to make a notification. In this connection, the Danish Data Protection Agency has found that, based on the random checks carried out, only incidents have been found where it can be described as unlikely that the violations in question entail a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, cf. Article 33 (1). 1.
Overall, the Danish Data Protection Agency has therefore not found grounds to conclude that the National Board of Appeal has registered information security incidents, including breaches of personal data security, which should have been reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency, but which have not been.
Documentation of breaches of personal data security
According to Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation 5, the data controller shall document all breaches of personal data security, including the facts of the breach of personal data security, its effects and the remedial measures taken. This documentation must be able to enable the supervisory authority (Datatilsynet) to check that the provision has been complied with.
It is noted that no specific formal requirements are set for the documentation, and the data controller can therefore decide for himself how the information is to be collected and how it is to be presented. However, the documentation must in all cases contain a number of information, cf. the wording of the provision above. The Danish Data Protection Agency's guidelines from February 2018 on handling breaches of personal data security state on page 27 that the requirements for documentation can be set out as follows:

Date and time of the breach
What happened in connection with the breach?
What is the cause of the fracture?
What (types) of personal information are covered by the breach?
What are the consequences of the breach for the affected persons?
What remedial action has been taken?
Whether - and if so how - has the Danish Data Protection Agency been notified? Why / Why not?

The data controller should thus document his reasons for all significant decisions made as a result of the breach. This applies not least if the data controller, after assessing the breach, has come to the conclusion that it should not be reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency.
The 124 breaches of personal data security, about which the National Board of Appeal has submitted material in connection with the inspection, are divided into two separate lists. One list lists the 32 breaches that have been reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency, and the other list provides information on the 92 breaches that have not been reported to the Authority. The facts of the violation do not appear in the list of reported violations and there are no references to the enclosed notifications.
After reviewing the National Board of Appeal's 32 reports of breaches of personal data security, which the Agency has reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency, the Authority may in this connection state that the Agency has described the facts of the breach and stated a reason why the breach was reported to the Data Inspectorate.
It is - after reviewing all the material in question - the Danish Data Protection Agency's assessment that the Agency as a whole has provided the required documentation.
Against this background, it is the Danish Data Protection Agency's assessment that the National Board of Appeal as a whole has complied with the requirements of Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Ordinance. 5.
However, in continuation of the above - and not least in light of the Data Inspectorate's guidelines from February 2018 on handling breaches of personal data security - the Danish Data Protection Agency must recommend to the National Board of Appeal that the Agency be much more aware of the benefit of having a comprehensive structured overview of all breaches. personal data security and any information security incidents. In the opinion of the Danish Data Protection Agency, such an overview could also contribute to the National Board of Appeal being better able to continuously analyze and follow up on the breaches of personal data security that the Agency has, which can prevent new breaches of personal data security. In addition, it could help reduce the effects of future breaches. In this connection, the Danish Data Protection Agency may mention that a similar measure appears in the information security standard ISO 27001, Annex A, section 16.1.6.
The Danish Data Protection Agency has also reviewed the National Board of Appeal's own documentation for a representative sample of the 92 breaches of personal security that have not been reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency. In this connection, the Authority can state that the Agency has described the actual circumstances of the breach and stated a reason why the breach was not reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency. The Danish Data Protection Agency has assessed, on the basis of the random checks carried out, that the scope of the specified documentation has been sufficient for the Authority to be able to conclude that it must be described as unlikely that the violations in question involve a risk to natural persons' rights and freedoms, cf. Article 33 (1) of the Regulation 1.
4. Training of employees
It is clear from Article 32 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation 1, that the data controller must implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure an appropriate level of security.
Among other things, is required that the data controller must ensure that all employees in the organization are, to the extent necessary, aware of any internal procedures for handling breaches of personal data security, that certain relevant employees can identify and assess breaches of personal data security, in addition it is a necessity for that the organization as a whole is otherwise able to support the obligation to make reports, etc. pursuant to Article 33 of the Data Protection Regulation.
The Danish Data Protection Agency has noted that the National Board of Appeal has prepared a number of activities with a view to training employees in data protection, including with a view to employees being able to identify and possibly handle breaches of personal data security.
Notwithstanding that the Danish Data Protection Agency has not had the opportunity to take a specific position on whether all relevant employees have completed the training activities in question, and notwithstanding that the Authority is not aware of the full content of the training material, it is the Authority's assessment that the National Board of Appeal has carried out appropriate training activities. Among other things, in order to be able to support the identification and management of breaches of personal data security.
5. Summary
Following the supervision of the National Board of Appeal, the Danish Data Protection Agency finds reason to conclude in summary that the National Board of Appeal's processing of personal data is generally organized and carried out in accordance with the rules in Article 33 of the Data Protection Ordinance.
In the opinion of the Danish Data Protection Agency, the National Board of Appeal has thus implemented the measures necessary to be able to comply with the requirements of Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Ordinance. 1, and thereby ensure that breaches of personal data security are detected in the organization and registered, so that these are always assessed with a view to whether the breach must be reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency.
Furthermore, the Danish Data Protection Agency finds that the National Board of Appeal has complied with the requirements of Article 33 (1) of the Data Protection Ordinance. 5.
In addition, the Danish Data Protection Agency's assessment is that the National Board of Appeal has carried out appropriate training activities, e.g. in order to be able to support the identification and management of breaches of personal data security.
The Danish Data Protection Agency hereby considers the case closed and does not take any further action.
[1] Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (General data protection regulation)
[2] Act No. 502 of 23 May 2018 on additional provisions to the Regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. (Data Protection Act)



