1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00156/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated April 30, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the website foro Naranja.es is a
blog in which the name and surnames of the claimant and their condition have been published
of "(…)" on William Hill, including a screenshot of his Linkedin profile.
The events occurred on October 26, 2019 and the link to the publication
claimed is https://foro Naranja.es/(...)-williamhill/.

SECOND: On June 26, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the
claimant.

THIRD: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is found that the
responsible for the treatment is the claimed.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

Request made to the Public Business Entity RED.ES, responsible for the
management of the first level Internet domain “.es”, on the ownership of the domain
“foro Naranja.es”, dated July 20, 2020, a written response to the
requirement informing that the owner of the referred domain is the claimed one.

FOURTH
 Or: On May 21, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
 
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

alleged infringement of articles 6 and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning party is given a hearing period of TEN WORKING DAYS to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate, in accordance with the
stipulated in articles 73 and 76 of Law 39/2015 on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations.

 TO: Not having made allegations or presented evidence within the given period,

SEX
This resolution is issued taking into account the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On the foro Naranja.es website, the name and surname of the
claimant and his status as "(…)" at William Hill, including a printout of
screen of your profile on Linkedin.

SECOND: The Spanish Agency for Data Protection has notified the claimed
the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure, but it has not
presented allegations or evidence that contradicts the facts denounced.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes that for the treatment to be lawful, it will be required that
the interested party of his consent for the processing of his personal data for one or
various specific purposes.

Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), under the heading "Definitions",
provides that:
“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of a
identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal information or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or
no, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression
or destruction;”
Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal through forms included in a web page constitutes a treatment of
data, with respect to which the data controller must comply with the
provided for in article 13 of the RGPD.
In relation to this matter, it is noted that the Spanish Data Protection Agency
has at the disposal of citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of the duty to inform
(https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and, in case of
carry out low-risk data processing, the free tool Facilitates
(https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

In this sense, article 4.11 of the RGPD defines the "consent of the interested party" as
Any manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by which the
The interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you.

For its part, article 7.1 of the RGPD establishes that “when the treatment is based on the
consent of the interested party, the person in charge must be able to demonstrate that the
consented to the processing of your personal data.

In this line, article 6 of the LOPDGDD establishes that in accordance with the provisions
in article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, consent of the
affected any manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by the
that he accepts, either through a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you.

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, it has:
 "1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the person in charge
of the treatment, at the moment in which these are obtained, will provide you with all the information
indicated below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of his representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis of the treatment.
treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third country or
international organization and the existence or absence of a decision on the adequacy of the
Commission, or, in the case of the transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or the
article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to adequate guarantees or

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

appropriate and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact that they have been
borrowed.
2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained, the
following information necessary to ensure fair data processing and
transparent:
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when this is not possible,
the criteria used to determine this term;
b) the existence of the right to request access to the data from the data controller
related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its
treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to the portability of the
data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9,
paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any
moment, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the consent
prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a requirement
necessary to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide the data
personal and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
refers to article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information
on the logic applied, as well as the importance and the foreseen consequences of said
treatment for the interested party.
3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional relevant information pursuant to paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
in which the interested party already has the information”.
For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:
"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article 13
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to which
refers to the following section and indicating an electronic address or other means that
allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.
2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:
a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.
b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for profiling, the
basic information will also include this circumstance. In this case, the affected
must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of individual decisions
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

automated that produce legal effects on him or significantly affect him in any way
similarly, when this right concurs in accordance with the provisions of article 22
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

III

In the present case, the claim focuses on the fact that on the website
https://foro Naranja.es/(...)-williamhill/ the name and surname of the
claimant and his status as "(…)" at William Hill without his consent, or any
another cause of legitimacy for the treatment of those established in article 6 of the
GDPR.

It is also stated that the website https://foro Naranja.es/(...)-williamhill/ does not have
a privacy policy in accordance with data protection regulations, which prevents the
claimant to know the address where to exercise the rights recognized in the RGPD.

The defendant has not presented any allegation within the period given for it after the agreement
of initiation of this sanctioning procedure, for which the facts are considered
known constituents of two infractions attributable to the defendant.

A first infringement for an alleged violation of article 6 of the RGPD, for the
processing of the claimant's personal data without their consent, or any other
cause of legitimacy for the treatment of those established in article 6 of the
GDPR.

And another second infraction for the alleged violation of article 13 of the RGPD, for
lack the website of an adequate privacy policy, lacking the requirements
required for the claimant to be able to exercise their rights.

IV

Article 72.1 b) and h) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD, are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the
infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in
that and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of legality
of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

v

Each infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate each sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

As aggravating the following:

In the present case we are dealing with unintentional, but significant, negligent action.


you identified (article 83.2 b)



Basic personal identifiers are affected -image- (art 83.2 g)

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 6 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of 5,000 euros (five thousand
euros).

SECOND: IMPOSE B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of 4,000 euros (four thousand
euros).

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

