1/6  
  
File No.: EXP202317611  
RESOLUTION OF RIGHTS PROCEDURE  
Having reviewed the complaint registered on October 11, 2023, with this Agency and having carried out the procedural actions provided for in Title VIII of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the following FACTS have been established:  

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complainant) exercised the right of Erasure against IBERDROLA CLIENTES, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the respondent) without their request receiving the legally established response.  
The complainant states that, in 2021, they contracted gas and electricity services with IBERDROLA for a property they owned. On June 15, 2021, they proceeded to sell the aforementioned property, notifying the respondent of their request for cancellation via telephone. They indicate that their request was not attended to, continuing to be required to pay invoices, which led them to file a claim with an arbitration body that, on June 13, 2022, upheld their request, setting the cancellation date to June 19, 2021. After requesting the erasure of their personal data from IBERDROLA, they received no response. They provide a request for erasure dated August 11, 2023, along with proof of sending.  

SECOND: In accordance with Article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), this complaint was forwarded to the respondent for analysis and to inform this Agency within one month of the actions taken to comply with the requirements set forth in data protection regulations.  

THIRD: The result of the transfer procedure indicated in the previous Fact did not allow for the understanding that the complainant's claims were satisfied. Consequently, on January 11, 2024, for the purposes provided for in Article 64.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data agreed to admit the complaint for processing.  
The aforementioned agreement granted the respondent a hearing period, to present any arguments they deemed appropriate within ten working days.  
The respondent, in summary, responds to this Agency by providing a large amount of documentation related to the contractual relationship they have maintained with the complainant and documents that they have attended to the right and communicated to the complainant.  
Among the aforementioned documentation, they provide an email dated January 30, 2024, in which they state that they have addressed the right of erasure; this email is directed to ***EMAIL.1, an email provided by the complainant in their request.  

FOURTH: After examining the document submitted by the respondent, it is forwarded to the complainant, so that, within ten working days, they may formulate any arguments they consider appropriate.  
The complainant has not submitted any arguments.  

LEGAL GROUNDS  
I  
Competence  
In accordance with the powers granted to each supervisory authority by Article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and as established in Articles 47, 48.1, and 64.1 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and the Guarantee of Digital Rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.  
Furthermore, Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD states: "The procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data shall be governed by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, this organic law, the regulatory provisions issued in its development, and, in so far as they do not contradict them, subsidiarily by the general rules on administrative procedures."  

II  
Preliminary Issues  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 55 of the GDPR, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of Data is competent to perform the functions assigned to it in Article 57, including the enforcement of the Regulation and promoting awareness among data controllers and processors regarding their obligations, as well as addressing complaints submitted by a data subject and investigating, as appropriate, the reasons for such complaints.  
Correspondingly, Article 31 of the GDPR establishes the obligation of data controllers and processors to cooperate with the supervisory authority that requests it in the performance of its functions. In cases where they have designated a data protection officer, Article 39 of the GDPR assigns this officer the function of cooperating with that authority.  
In accordance with this regulation, following the procedure provided for in Article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, prior to the admission of the complaint regarding the exercise of the rights regulated in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR, which gives rise to this procedure, it was forwarded to the respondent for analysis, to respond to this Agency within one month, and to document that they had provided the complainant with the appropriate response.  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es
3/6  
The result of that transfer did not allow for the satisfaction of the claims of the complaining party. Consequently, on January 11, 2024, for the purposes provided in Articles 64.1 and 65 of the LOPDGDD, the complaint submitted was admitted for processing. This admission for processing determines the initiation of the present procedure regarding the lack of attention to a request for the exercise of the rights established in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR, regulated in Article 64.1 of the LOPDGDD, according to which:  
“When the procedure refers exclusively to the lack of attention to a request for the exercise of the rights established in Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, it shall be initiated by an admission agreement, which shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Article 65 of this organic law.  
In this case, the deadline for resolving the procedure shall be six months from the date on which the admission agreement was notified to the complainant. Once that period has elapsed, the interested party may consider their complaint accepted.”  
Article 58.2 of the GDPR grants the Spanish Data Protection Agency a series of corrective powers for the purpose of remedying any infringement of the GDPR, including “ordering the data controller or processor to address the requests for the exercise of the rights of the data subject under this Regulation.”  

III  
Rights of Individuals Regarding Personal Data Protection  
The rights of individuals regarding personal data protection are regulated in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR and Articles 13 to 18 of the LOPDGDD. The rights of access, rectification, erasure, objection, the right to restriction of processing, and the right to data portability are contemplated.  
The formal aspects related to the exercise of these rights are established in Articles 12 of the GDPR and 12 of the LOPDGDD.  
Additionally, consideration is given to what is expressed in Recitals 59 and following of the GDPR.  
In accordance with the provisions of these regulations, the data controller must establish formulas and mechanisms to facilitate the exercise of rights by the data subject, which shall be free of charge (without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 12.5 and 15.3 of the GDPR), and is obliged to respond to requests made no later than one month, unless it can demonstrate that it is unable to identify the data subject, and to express its reasons in the event that it does not intend to address such request. The burden of proof regarding compliance with the obligation to respond to the request for the exercise of rights made by the affected party lies with the data controller.  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es  

4/6  
The communication addressed to the data subject regarding their request must be expressed in a concise, transparent, intelligible, and easily accessible manner, using clear and simple language.  

IV  
Right to Erasure  
Article 17 of the GDPR, which regulates the right to erasure of personal data, establishes the following:  
"1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the data controller the erasure of personal data concerning them without undue delay, and the data controller shall be obliged to erase personal data without undue delay when one of the following circumstances applies:  
a) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which they were collected or otherwise processed;  
b) the data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based in accordance with Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a), and where there is no other legal ground for the processing;  
c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1), and there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(2);  
d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed;  
e) the personal data must be erased for compliance with a legal obligation in Union or Member State law to which the data controller is subject;  
f) the personal data have been collected in relation to the offer of information society services referred to in Article 8(1).  
2. When the data controller has made the personal data public and is obliged, under paragraph 1, to erase such data, the data controller, taking into account the available technology and the cost of implementation, shall take reasonable steps, including technical measures, to inform controllers that are processing the personal data of the data subject's request for erasure of any links to, or copies or replications of, those personal data.  
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the extent that processing is necessary:  
a) for exercising the right of freedom of expression and information;  
b) for compliance with a legal obligation which requires processing by Union or Member State law to which the data controller is subject, or for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller;  
c) for reasons of public interest in the area of public health in accordance with Article 9(2)(h) and (i), and paragraph 3;  
d) for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1), insofar as...  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es
5/6  
the right indicated in section 1 could make it impossible or severely hinder the achievement of the objectives of such processing, or  
e) for the formulation, exercise, or defense of claims."  
V  
Conclusion  
During the processing of this procedure, the entity being claimed has responded to this Agency by providing an email that proves it has attended to the request made by the claimant, sending the mandatory response to their request.  
Thus, it cannot be accepted that the response that corresponds to be given can be manifested on the occasion of a mere administrative procedure, such as the formulation of allegations due to the present procedure, initiated precisely for not properly attending to the request in question.  
The aforementioned rules do not allow for the request to be overlooked as if it had not been raised, leaving it without the response that those responsible must issue, even in the event that there are no data in the files or even in those cases where it does not meet the required criteria, in which case the recipient of such a request is also obliged to require the rectification of the observed deficiencies or, where appropriate, to deny the request with justification indicating the reasons why the right in question cannot be considered.  
Therefore, the request made obliges the responsible party to provide an express response in all cases, using any means that justifies the receipt of the response.  
Given that a copy of the necessary communication that must be addressed to the claimant informing them about the decision that has been made regarding the exercise of rights is attached, it is appropriate to uphold the claim that originated this procedure for formal reasons.  
In view of the cited provisions and others of general application, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection RESOLVES:  
FIRST: TO UPHOLD for formal reasons, the claim made by A.A.A., against IBERDROLA CLIENTES, S.A.U. However, the issuance of a new certification by the claimed party is not appropriate, as the response was issued late, and no additional actions are required from the responsible party.  
SECOND: TO NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A. and to IBERDROLA CLIENTES, S.A.U.  
In accordance with the provisions of Article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.  
Against this resolution, which concludes the administrative process in accordance with Article 48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 123 of the LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file a motion for reconsideration before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within one month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly file an administrative contentious appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court, in accordance with the provisions of Article 25 and Section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within two months from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.  
1381-090823  
Mar España Martí  
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection  
C/ Jorge Juan, 6  
www.aepd.es  
28001 – Madrid  
sedeagpd.gob.es