
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    03/10/2021
                                Speyer Forum on the digital world on April 21 and 22, 2021On the tenth anniversary of the "Speyer Forum on the digital world" we will not look back - but forward! Which topics and trends are emerging for the 2020s? What can and must the state do now to make digitization a success story in Germany? The "Speyerer Forum" on April 21 and 22, 2021 will take place at the German University for Administrative Sciences Speyer as a face-to-face event and virtually. In addition to the university and the university professors Mario Martini and Hermann Hill, the Rhineland-Palatinate and Baden-Württemberg state data protection officers, Professor Dieter Kugelmann and Stefan Brink, are the organizers. Jan Philipp Albrecht, Minister for Energy Transition, Agriculture, Environment, Nature and Digitization Schleswig-Holstein, will give the introductory lecture "The GDPR from today's perspective".
The conference program brings together actors from science, politics and administrative practice. The guiding principle of this year's conference is: It's time to take the step from theory to practice. After the development of countless strategy and concept papers, the implementation must now follow: Citizens want and should be able to quickly access digital offers from the state. The fact that Germany is currently experiencing a strong digitization push can be felt everywhere: The implementation of the Online Access Act is in full swing, the electronic patient file is available and mobile working is a reality for many people in times of a pandemic. The conference, which is taking place for the tenth time, is considered a renowned workshop for ideas and offers numerous opportunities for further training, networking and opinion-forming. Further information: ProgramRegistration for presence participationRegistration for online participation
                                return
                            



