 

 

 

 
 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Gilda Farshidfar Tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

01/26/2021

 Lobby register for the Baden-Württemberg

Parliament leads to more transparency

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: "It is clearly recognizable and very

that with the lobby register the rights of civil

like to be strengthened. That's the next right one

step towards a transparent and trustworthy

to the state!”

 

On Wednesday, January 27th the first consultation takes place in the state parliament

the draft law on the transparency register. The introductory

tion of such a register for the Baden-Württemberg

Parliament and the state government is an important step towards

Strengthening the citizen's right to free access to information.

With this public register, citizens will be able to

easier to understand which organizations and

bind their interests within the framework of legislative processes

have contributed. The lobby register thus offers the

Basis for effective transparency.

 

- 2 -

 

The state representative Stefan Brink: "A legally anchored

tes public lobby register strengthens trust in political

decision-making processes. It complements the country information

freedom law, but does not replace it.”

 

According to the State Freedom of Information Act (LIFG).

Citizens have the right to access official information

to. This law has existed in Baden-Württemberg since 2016.

The lobby register supplements the LIFG in a meaningful way by

it also the deliberations of the parliament and the government

makes more transparent. The State Commissioner for

data protection and freedom of information Stefan Brink

emphatically.

 

The next logical step would be a transparency law

which public bodies are fundamentally obliged to provide certain

official information for citizens proactively on the internet

to publish, even without making special requests to do so

have to be asked.

 
LfDI Stefan Brink: "It is clearly recognizable and very gratifying that

that with the lobby register the rights of the citizens

be strengthened. This is the next right step towards one

transparent and trustworthy state - and to a

comprehensive transparency law, as is already the case in Hamburg,

Bremen, Rhineland-Palatinate or Thuringia exists!”

 

Further information

 

The transparency register should be on the website of the state parliament

be published and records organizations and associations

de, which is created regularly, on a permanent basis or on behalf of third parties

 

- 3 -

Representation of interests vis-à-vis the state parliament, the parliamentary groups,

the members, the state government or one of their members

who operate. Only those who register can be heard. That

The register contains, among other things, the name of the institution and its registered office with

to contact details. The law is said to be still ongoing

legislative period and after the state parliament

election to come into effect in May 2021.

 

 

