29/04/2022
Failure to comply with the order of the supervisory authority Key words: Penalty fee Right of inspection Decree Legal basis: decision in accordance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation Diary number: 10587/161/21
Decision of the Sanctions Board on the administrative penalty payment
Registrar
Telemarketing company
Thing
On February 25, 2021, a complaint regarding the registered person's right to inspection was initiated in the office of the Data Protection Commissioner. The initiator has said that he asked the telemarketing company to access the call recording regarding the sales call the telemarketing company made to the initiator, but the telemarketing company had not implemented this request. The request has been about the protection of natural persons in the processing of personal data and the request in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the free movement of this data and the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (later: General Data Protection Regulation).
On July 23, 2021, the Data Protection Commissioner issued a decision in the case, in which the telemarketing company is ordered to give the data subject access to the call recording. Neither the registered nor the telemarketing company have applied for an amendment to the data protection commissioner's decision by appealing to the administrative court within 30 days of being informed of the decision, so the decision is legally binding.
The telemarketing company has not taken measures to implement the registered right after being notified of the decision of the Data Protection Commissioner, and on December 30, 2021, the telemarketing company was sent a consultation request from the Data Protection Commissioner's office, in which the telemarketing company was asked to submit the call recording to the Data Protection Commissioner's office. The telemarketing company has given the data subject access to the call recording after receiving the consultation request.
The background of the matter
On July 23, 2021, the Data Protection Commissioner issued a decision ordering the telemarketing company to comply with the data subject's request regarding the use of the data subject's rights based on the General Data Protection Regulation. The case has concerned the data subject's access to the call recording made from a telemarketing call.
On October 4, 2021, the data protection commissioner's office received information from the initiator that the telemarketing company has not been in contact with the registered person after the data protection commissioner's decision was issued. The Office of the Data Protection Commissioner has reached the CEO of the telemarketing company by phone on October 5, 2021, and the CEO has said that the decision given by the Data Protection Commissioner has not been complied with. In this context, the CEO has given the data protection commissioner's office an address to which the decision can be delivered again. The decision has been sent to this address on 7 October 2021.
The initiator has told the data protection commissioner's office on 21 October 2021 that the telemarketing company has still not been in contact with the matter. The representative of the data protection authorized office has called the CEO of the telemarketing company on 21 October 2021 and inquired about the situation. The managing director has said that the resent decision has not been taken up, and there has been a delay in handling the matter due to the fall vacation. The managing director has said that he will take measures in the matter.
On 25 October 2021, the CEO of the telemarketing company has been in contact with the data protection commissioner's office by email. The CEO has thanked the Data Protection Commissioner's decision and said that the company has made sure that similar mistakes will not happen again in the future. According to the CEO, in the future, in a situation where the customer requests information electronically, the telemarketing company will deliver the tape electronically, unless the customer wishes for another delivery method. In this context, the CEO has also said that he was looking for an initiator.
The initiator has confirmed on 25 October 2021 to the data protection commissioner's office that a telemarketing company has tried to contact him. The initiator has submitted a screenshot of the text message he received from the telemarketing company on October 25, 2021 to the data protection commissioner's office. In a text message, the telemarketing company has apologized for its actions and said that it has changed its operating methods as a result of the data protection commissioner's decision. The telemarketing company has also stated in its message that it wants to compensate the two invoices that the initiator paid in the spring. The initiator has also submitted to the data protection commissioner's office the e-mail received from the telemarketing company on October 21, 2021, in which the telemarketing company has apologized for what happened and expressed its willingness to financially compensate for the trouble and damage caused. The initiator has told the data protection commissioner's office on 27 October 2021 that he will be in contact with the telemarketing company and agree on the reimbursement of the costs incurred from the invoices. On 27 October 2021, the initiator has confirmed to the data protection commissioner's office that the telemarketing company has still not implemented access to the call recording.
On October 25, 2021, the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner has asked the telemarketing company to confirm by email that it has implemented registered access to the call recording. The telemarketing company has not responded to the e-mail message or otherwise contacted the data protection commissioner's office. On 17 December 2021, the initiator has told the data protection commissioner's office that the telemarketing company has not contacted to give access to the call recording or to handle the refund matter. The initiator has expressed that he still wants access to the call recording.
Consultation of the controller
Hearing
The telecommunications company has been reserved the opportunity referred to in § 34 of the Administrative Act (434/2003) to be heard and to express its opinion on the matter and to give its explanation of such demands and explanations that may affect the resolution of the matter. At the same time, the telemarketing company is given the opportunity to bring up such matters referred to in Article 83, paragraph 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which, according to the telemarketing company's opinion, should be taken into account when making a decision. For this purpose, a request for consultation and a request for additional clarification have been sent to the telemarketing company on December 30, 2021 electronically and by ground mail, to which it has been asked to respond by January 31, 2022. The telemarketing company has responded to the consultation request and additional clarification request on January 31, 2022.
In its response to the consultation request, the telemarketing company has said that it has made changes to the processing process for requests regarding the rights of the data subject. According to the telemarketing company, compensation of 995 euros has been paid to the initiator of the case for the trouble caused and the delay in handling the case.
According to its consultation request response, the telemarketing company processes the data of more than 6,000 registrants. The telemarketing company has also submitted that a possible administrative fine could be fatal to the company's operations and ability to employ.
The telemarketing company has submitted its response as an attachment of the relevant call recording in MP3 format. The initiator of the case has confirmed to the data protection commissioner's office on 12 January 2022 that the telemarketing company has delivered the call recording as an MP3 file to him on 10 January 2022. The initiator has also confirmed on 24 March 2022 that the telemarketing company has paid him 995 euros in January 2022.
Content of the call recording (partial transcript)
”[…] [Caller’s name] is calling [registered person’s name] from [telemarketing company], I would like to reach out to you with a very short matter, since you answered our survey last year, which asked about issues related to health and well-being […] And when this large and extensive study now it's finally finished, so as a thank you for answering the survey, you would have been credited with a benefit worth 40 euros, which means that I have received permission to send you a three-month package of a bone calcium product made in Finland as a thank you package, and let's make it so that I can include some more that two-month dose of magnesium preparation. [...] And the entire two-month dosage of magnesium comes to you completely free of charge as a gift. The only cost you will have is that for the bone product, your thank you package will only be 2 euros 90 cents per week and there will be no other costs. [...] And of course I don't need [name of the registered] to handle those couple of euro payments separately, then all the weekly payments combined will be taken care of one by one, so that's the 35.60, which will cover the entire three-month dosage of the bone calcium product and the two-month dosage magnesium product.”
The Office of the Data Protection Commissioner will notify the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority regarding the procedure used in marketing.
Background information
Service description
The registrant is a telemarketing company. The company conducts part of its operations under the subsidiary name XX. On the website www.xx.fi, the controller sells and markets health products under the name XX Oy.
Sales
The turnover of the telemarketing company in the financial period August 1, 2020 – July 31, 2021 has been approx. 2 million euros.
On applicable legislation
The General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and the Council (data protection regulation) has been applied since 25 May 2018. As a regulation, the legislation is immediately applicable law in the member states. The Data Protection Regulation contains national leeway, on the basis of which national legislation can be used to supplement and clarify matters specifically defined in the regulation. The general data protection regulation is specified by the national data protection act (1050/2018), which has been applied since January 1, 2019. The previously valid Personal Data Act (523/1999) was repealed by the Data Protection Act.
According to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject has the right to receive confirmation from the controller that personal data concerning him or her is being processed or that it is not being processed, and if it is processed, the right to access the personal data and the information in accordance with Article 15, paragraph 1, subparagraphs a–h. According to paragraph 3 of the article, the controller must provide a copy of the personal data being processed. If the data subject requests more than one copy, the controller may charge a reasonable fee based on administrative costs. If the data subject submits the request electronically, the information must be submitted in a commonly used electronic format, unless the data subject requests otherwise.
Article 58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the remedial powers of the supervisory authority. According to subsection c of the article, the supervisory authority can order the controller or personal data processor to comply with the data subject's requests regarding the use of the data subject's rights based on the General Data Protection Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 83(6) of the General Data Protection Regulation, non-compliance with the order of the supervisory authority referred to in Article 58(2) shall be subject to an administrative penalty fee of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company, four percent of the total annual global turnover of the previous financial year in accordance with Article 83(2) whichever of these amounts is greater.
Decision of the Sanctions Board
The Sanctions Board considers that the telemarketing company has not properly complied with the order given by the Data Protection Commissioner in the case to give the data subject access to the call recording, but has taken measures only after it has received information about the request for a hearing regarding non-compliance with the Data Protection Commissioner's order. The telemarketing company is subject to an administrative penalty fee for non-compliance with the order of the supervisory authority referred to in Article 58(2) of the General Data Protection Regulation in accordance with Article 83(6) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The sanctioning panel formed by the data protection commissioner and the deputy data protection commissioners orders the data controller to pay the state an administrative sanction fee of 8,300 (eight thousand three hundred) euros pursuant to article 58 paragraph 2 subparagraph i and article 83 paragraph 6 of the general data protection regulation.
Reasons for imposing an administrative penalty
Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation lays down the general conditions for imposing an administrative fine. According to the article, imposing an administrative fine must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each individual case. The administrative penalty fee is imposed according to the circumstances of each individual case in addition to or instead of the remedial powers provided for in Article 58. When deciding on the imposition of an administrative penalty fee and the amount of the administrative penalty fee, the factors listed in Article 83, Paragraph 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation must be taken into account in each individual case.
When evaluating the matter, the instructions of the data protection working group in accordance with Article 29 on the application and imposition of administrative fines are also taken into account.
In the case currently being evaluated, the controller has not complied with the regulation referred to in Article 58, Paragraph 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation of the supervisory authority. According to Article 83(6) of the General Data Protection Regulation, non-compliance with the order issued by the supervisory authority pursuant to Article 58(2) shall result in an administrative fine.
In the matter now being evaluated, the telemarketing company has not implemented the order issued by the Data Protection Commissioner on July 23, 2021. In this case, the data controller would have been able to quickly and easily implement the data subject's right. The controller has also had the ability to implement the right immediately after receiving the order. However, the telemarketing company has not taken appropriate measures to comply with the order, instead it has communicated to the data subject and the data protection commissioner's office that it will pay compensation to the data subject. After being notified of the order, the controller has not responded at all to the inquiry submitted by the data protection authorized office on October 25, 2021 about whether it has implemented the registered access to the call recording. When assessing in what time the data protection commissioner's order should have been implemented, it can be taken into account as a comparison of the time elapsed in the case that, according to Article 12 of the General Data Protection Regulation, a request regarding the rights of the data subject must be implemented without undue delay and in any case within one month of receiving the request. The telemarketing company has picked up the decision of the data protection commissioner on 21 October 2021, and the decision has become legally binding after the 30-day appeal period has ended. After the decision became legally binding, 50 days have still passed before the telemarketing company has delivered the call recording to the registered person by e-mail. In the case being assessed now, the controller has not complied with the order within a reasonable time and without undue delay. The Sanctions Board therefore considers that the data controller has not complied with the order issued by the Data Protection Commissioner on July 23, 2021. The controller has delivered the call recording to the data subject on January 10, 2022, i.e. only after the data protection commissioner's office has taken measures for non-compliance with the order. In the case, the data subject has needed access to the call recording in order to verify that no contract has been formed between the telemarketing company and the data subject. This is important in terms of the legal basis for personal data processing as well as the legal status of the registered person.
Summary and the amount of the administrative penalty payment
According to Article 83(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the penalty payment must be effective, proportionate and warning. The assessment is made based on the circumstances of each individual case. When examining an individual case, it must be assessed whether the aim is only to change the activity to comply with the law, or whether it is justified to set the goal of punishing the controller for illegal activity.
In the case being evaluated now, the data controller, i.e. the telemarketing company, has been ordered to give the data subject access to the call recording. The register keeper has not taken appropriate measures to implement the initiator's right, even on the order of the supervisory authority. The procedure of the data controller in failing to comply with the data protection commissioner's order shows a serious disregard for data protection regulations.
In the case of a telemarketing company, the euro-denominated upper limit of the penalty fee is formed in accordance with Article 83(6) of the General Data Protection Regulation, because the violation concerns non-compliance with the order regarding the exercise of the right of the registered person in accordance with Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Insufficient cooperation with the supervisory authority must be taken into account as an aggravating factor in the evaluation. As mitigating criteria in the evaluation, it must be taken into account that the controller has taken measures to mitigate the damage caused to the data subject. According to Article 83(6) of the General Data Protection Regulation, failure to comply with the order of the supervisory authority referred to in Article 58(2) is subject to an administrative penalty fee of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company, four percent of its annual global total turnover of the previous financial year. whichever of these amounts is greater.
The nature and seriousness of the breach
The nature and seriousness of the violation is assessed in light of the factors according to Article 83(2)(a) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The matter is not a minor violation referred to in preamble paragraph 148 of the General Data Protection Regulation, and the violation aimed at the exercise of the data subject's rights poses a significant risk to the data subject's rights in the case being evaluated and affects the essential content of the violated obligations.
Regarding the nature and seriousness of the violation, it can be stated that the data controller is a telemarketing company, and the right to get access to the call recording is essential for the registrants who are its customers. Access to the call recording may, in the controller's operations, be related to evidence of the contract and whether there was a legal basis for the processing of personal data. Although the data subject's right to access personal data according to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation does not require a justified reason from the data subject, it should be noted that the case involved a situation where there was a need to find out whether the telemarketing company acted in accordance with the law when marketing and selling health products to an elderly data subject.
Assessment of aggravating and mitigating factors
Actions taken by the registrar to mitigate the damage caused to the data subjects
In the case, the sanctioning board considers as a mitigating factor the fact that the telemarketing company has paid the registrant a refund, which, according to the report obtained in the case, has taken into account the effort incurred by the registrant in addition to the reimbursement of the invoices already paid by the registrant.
Regarding compensation, it should be noted that although it is in the interests of the data subject in itself to be compensated, the data controller cannot, on this basis, fail to comply with the data protection commissioner's order. The compensation paid to the data subject is a matter different from the implementation of the data subject's rights according to the General Data Protection Regulation, and the payment of the compensation does not mean that the data controller does not have to comply with the order issued by the data protection commissioner.
Cooperation with the supervisory authority
The telemarketing company has picked up the decision given by the data protection commissioner on 23 July 2021 only after it was sent again, on 21 October 2021, at the request of the data protection commissioner's office. On 25 October 2021, the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner has asked the telemarketing company to confirm by email that it has implemented registered access to the call recording. The telemarketing company has not responded to this e-mail message or has been in any other way with the data protection commissioner's office before responding to the consultation request. The registry keeper's cooperation with the supervisory authority has been insufficient, and it has not shown initiative in the matter. The inactivity of the data controller in taking the measures required by the data protection commissioner's order must be considered an aggravating factor.
The decision regarding the imposition of an administrative sanction fee has been made by the members of the Sanctions College of the Data Protection Commissioner.
Applicable legal provisions
Those mentioned in the justifications.
Appeal
According to Section 25 of the Data Protection Act (1050/2018), the decisions of the Deputy Data Protection Commissioner and the Sanctions Board can be appealed by appealing to the Administrative Court in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Trial in Administrative Matters (808/2019). The appeal is made to the administrative court.

The decision is not legally binding.




