

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Diebold Nixdorf s.r.o. - processing of personal data in connection with the organization of the receipt lottery



On the basis of the Office's control plan, the Office carried out an inspection of the processing of personal data in connection with electronic records of sales, specifically processing in connection with the organization of a receipt lottery in accordance with Act No. 112/2016 Coll., on records of sales. As part of the inspection, an initiative whose content was related to the subject of the inspection was also examined.

When processing personal data in connection with the receipt lottery, the inspected person is in the position of processor of personal data, the administrator of personal data is the Ministry of Finance (at which the Office carried out the inspection in parallel). The Authority found that the ticket lottery rules allow for two types of player registration, namely basic registration and full registration (creating a player account). The range of personal data that the controlled person collects and further processes for the administrator also depends on the chosen type of registration. In accordance with the contract with the controller, the controlled person concluded a contractual relationship with other companies, i.e. with subcontractors of individual services or components necessary to ensure the operation of the receipt lottery. These subcontractors are then in the position of persons processing personal data on the basis of a contract concluded with the processor pursuant to § 14 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll. (processing under the conditions and to the extent set by the controller or processor).

Considering the position of the inspected person, the Office focused on assessing the level of security of personal data according to § 13 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll., both on the part of the inspected person and on the part of its subcontractors. In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The inspection was conducted by the inspector Mgr. et Mgr. Bozena Čajková.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Sitemap > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st half > Diebold Nixdorf s.r.o. - processing of personal data in connection with the organization of the receipt lotteryView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



