1/3

 Procedure No.: PS/00371/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00371/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity SOTA S.C.P., owner of the website www.joiestela-
da.cat (hereinafter, "the entity claimed"), for alleged violation of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the
Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data
and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD), and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: dated 09/03/18, D. A.A.A. (hereinafter, “the claimant”), presented
written before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in which, among others, denounced
ciaba:

“The website www.joiestelada.cat, dedicated to the online sale of various products,
does not comply with the current regulations on Data Protection since, among
other possible circumstances that must be inspected by this Agency,
It completely lacks a Privacy Policy in accordance with what is regulated in the
GDPR; uses a contact form in which data is collected without including
no information on the aspects contemplated in the current regulations
on Data Protection, not containing a link to the Privacy Policy and
lacking the checkbox, explicitly requesting that the user accept the
Privacy Policy. Likewise, lacking any type of information
on the current regulations in PD. it is not possible to know the assignment of these
can be made up to the moment of this complaint to third parties”.

SECOND: Dated 07/02/19, in view of the facts set forth in the claim
and the documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection
tion of Data proceeded to carry out actions for its clarification, under the protection of
the powers of investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation,
(GDPR). Thus, on 10/25/18, an information request is addressed to the entity
claimed.
THIRD: According to a certificate from the Postal Service, the request sent to the
claimed entity, to the address c/ Nuestra Señora de Montserrat 16; 08540 Sparks
(Barcelona), has been returned to origin for "surplus", (Not picked up at the office).
FOURTH: Consulting the website, www.joiestelada.cat, dated 10/21/19, it was observed
Please note that to place an order for the products you advertise, you
You must enter the personal data of the interested party, lacking any type of
banner or link to the "privacy policy" of the page.
FIFTH: On 11/04/19, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed entity, by virtue of
of the powers established in art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for alleged infringement of article
13 of the RGPD and considered very serious in 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD for the purposes of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

23

prescription, setting an initial sanction of "Warning", without prejudice to what is
will result in the course of the instruction of the procedure, and requiring the entity
that: “Take the necessary measures contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, in order to
do facilitate the users of the portal, at the moment in which the personal data is collected
them through the forms on their page, the information
required in the aforementioned precept, for which it must take into account the provisions of art.
Article 6 of the RGPD in relation to the legality of the treatment”.

SIXTH: On 11/16/19, the initiation of the file was notified to the claimant entity.
demanded, who has not filed before this Agency, any brief or allegation, within the
the period granted for this purpose.

PROVEN FACTS

1.- Consulting the website, www.joiestelada.cat, dated 10/21/19, it is observed
that it is observed that to place an order for the products that it advertises, you must enter
introduce the personal data of the interested party, lacking any type of banner or
link to the "privacy policy" of the page.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5,
bre, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in the su-
cessive LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to resolve this procedure.

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

In the present case, it has been verified that, on the website www.joiestelada.cat
To place an order for the products you advertise, you must enter the data
of the interested party, lacking any type of banner or link to the "policy
privacy” on the page.

All of the above could imply an infraction for violation of article 13) of the
RGPD, considered in article 72.1.h), of the LOPDGDD as "very serious" for
prescription cough.

Yo

II

III

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the ma-
greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/3

The sanction to be imposed must be graded according to the criteria established
article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with recital 148 of the RGPD itself, which provides for the
possibility of punishing with a warning in certain circumstances.

In view of the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

RESOLVE

WARN: SOTA S.C.P., owner of the website www.joiestelada.cat, for infringement
tion of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

REQUEST: to the entity SOTA S.C.P. so that, within a month from this
act of notification, proceed to take the appropriate measures to adapt your policy
of privacy to the current regulations, (requirements contemplated in article 13 of the
RGPD), and must provide users and/or patients, at the time they collect
their personal data, through the forms, the required information
in the aforementioned precept, for which you must take into account the provisions of article 6
of the RGPD in relation to the legality of the treatment.

NOTIFY this resolution to the entity SOTA S.C.P.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

