




Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments from January 27th, 2022
DSK recommends using the CWA for contact tracing







No.20220127
|
01/28/2022
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

At its first interim conference, the conference of the independent federal and state data protection supervisory authorities (DSK) recommended moving away from the mass collection of contact data. The chairman of the DSK, the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, said: “With the currently very high number of infections, the contact details are hardly used by the overloaded health authorities anyway. If the number of infections is low, on the other hand, the general recording of contact details is a disproportionate interference with the fundamental right of citizens to informational self-determination. The DSK therefore demands that the possibilities of the Corona-Warn-App (CWA) be better used instead of the comprehensive collection of contact data.
The DSK is once again committed to ensuring that the CWA is provided for in the state regulations as a data protection-friendly alternative to contact recording. The app quickly warns about possible risky contacts and is particularly secure thanks to its decentralized structure. Therefore, the state governments should promote the CWA and its possibilities even more intensively and thus make them better known.
The DSK consists of the independent federal and state data protection authorities. This year, the BfDI is chairing the conference. The DSK has the task of safeguarding and protecting the fundamental right to informational self-determination, achieving uniform application of European and national data protection law and working together to promote its further development.
Further information on the data protection conference:
www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de
Contact: The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Graurheindorfer Straße 15353117 BonnE-Mail: pressestelle@bfdi.bund.de









                Back to overview









