  

GREEK EMPIRE
 

 

PRINCIPLE OF PROTECTION OF E OMEN
 

 

 

OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 

 
 

Athens, 09-11-2018
 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/8035-1/09-11-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 
     

     

 

A P O F A S I NO. 68/ 2018
 

    

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department following an invitation from its President to its headquarters on Wednesday 07-11-2018,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to examine the case referred to in the present history.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

They were attended by the Deputy President, Georgios Batzalexis, who was in his way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the President of the Authority, Constantos Menoudakos, Constantos Lambrinoudakis,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

regular member, and the alternate members Panagiotis Rontogiannis, as rapporteur, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Grigorios Tsolias, replacing the regular members Antons Symvonis and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charalambou Anthopoulos, respectively, those who, although only summoned in writing, did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attended due to obstruction. The meeting was attended by the order of the President
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Georgios Rousopoulos and Constantos Limniotis, expert scientists – auditors, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assistant lecturer. Irini also attended, by order of the President
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Papageorgopoulou, employee of the Administrative Department of the Authority, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Submitted to the Authority, by the company "Alpha Bank S.A." (hereinafter Alpha Bank
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Bank) the no. prot. C/EIS/8035/11-10-2018 notification of incident
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data breach, according to art. 33 of the General
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation - hereinafter, GDPR).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

According to the notification in question, the incident involved oligarchy and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

very limited cases of communication of documents to a different client
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the Bank's Private Banking service. The Bank proceeded to investigate and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel: 210 6475600, Fax: 210 6475628, contact@dpa.gr / www.dpa.gr
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

detection of errors and the establishment of control mechanisms and safety barriers for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

avoiding them in the future.
 

 

 

 

 

The Bank states that it became aware of the incident on 05-10-2018, while
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submitted the notification on 10/10/2018, without justifying the delay
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submission of the notification in relation to what is provided for in article 32 of the GDPR for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the submission deadline (as analyzed below). The affected of course
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

persons, customers of the Bank, were informed about the incident while in addition,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

customers who received a document intended for another were also informed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

recipient to ensure that the data will not be used in any way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which were mistakenly forwarded to them even though they concerned him.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file, after listening to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the clarifications of the assistant rapporteurs, who then left
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

before conference and decision, and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

 

1. The GDPR, which replaced Directive 95/56/EC, has been in force since 25
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May 2018. Article 4 of the GDPR states that "personal data" yes yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"any information concerning an identified or identifiable natural person
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(data subject)'. In the same article, it is also defined as processing "everything
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or series of actions carried out with or without the use of automated means, in
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data or in sets of personal data, such as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

collecting, recording, organizing, structuring, storing, adapting or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

change, retrieval, information search, use, disclosure by transmission, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dissemination or any other form of disposal, association or combination, limitation, deletion
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or destruction". Furthermore, let anyone (the natural
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

or legal person, the public authority, agency or other body) which, "alone or jointly
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with another, determine the purposes and manner of processing personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character".
 

In the second article, the breach of personal data is defined as "h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

breach of security resulting in accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

unauthorized disclosure or access of transmitted personal data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stored or otherwise processed'.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2
 

2. The principles governing the processing of personal data are defined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in article 5 par. 1 of the GDPR – among them, as indicated in article 5 par. 1
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

item in this, personal data are processed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

way that guarantees the appropriate security of personal data,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

among others their protection from unauthorized or illegal processing and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate techniques or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality"). Further, in paragraph 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the second article, it is stated that the person in charge of processing shall bear the responsibility and yes to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

position to accept compliance with paragraph 1 ("accountability").
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. With reference to the incident of personal data breach, o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR sets specific obligations for data processors. Specifically,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in article 33, it is stipulated that in the event of a personal data breach, o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller shall notify us immediately and, if possible, within 72 hours of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the moment it becomes aware of the fact of the breach of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character to the competent supervisory authority, unless the breach of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character may not cause a risk to their rights and freedoms
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

natural persons. When the notification to the supervisory authority is not made within
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

72 hours, accompanied by a justification for the delay.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In paragraph 3 of the aforementioned article, the minimum elements are defined
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the notice must contain, while in par. 4 that in case and if not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If it is possible to provide the information at the same time, it can be provided
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

gradually without undue delay.
 

 

 

 

4. In this case, as can be seen from the evidence in her file
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

case, our data controller submitted the data breach notification
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature with a delay of 2 days from the moment of the first request
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

time he was informed about the incident, without providing a reason that he mentions for Art
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to delay. Therefore, a delayed activation of the process results
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

handling personal data breach incidents.
  

 

 

 

 

 

The incident was extremely limited, involving only twelve of her clients
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank and, from the moment its handling procedures began, it seems to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

faced correctly.
 

 

5. In view of the violation found, i.e. the delay by two (2)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

days of submitting a notification of a personal data breach incident
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, and also taking into account the minor gravity of the incident, the fact
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
 

that the GDPR has just come into force and that our data controller proceeded to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

actions to deal with the incident, the Authority unanimously considers that it should take
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the one provided for in article 58 par. 2 sec. II GDPR under its authority, as stated in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provision hereof, and the penalty is proportionate to the gravity of the violations.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

The Authority taking into account the above:
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Addresses based on no. 58 par. 2 b' of Regulation (EU) 679/2016 attack
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at Alpha Bank S.A. for the late submission violation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notification of a personal data breach incident.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Deputy President
 

 

 

 

 

 

The Secretary
 

 

 

 

George Batzalexis
  

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 

 

 

4
 

