THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

March 21, 2022

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

  New European guidelines on dark patterns:

practical

assistance

for

Citizens

and

Designers to recognize dark patterns and to

avoid

 

The State Commissioner for Data Protection and the

freedom of information dr Stefan Brink: “Citizens

should not be accompanied by misleading information, designs

and structures in the network are attracted. Rather should

Citizens

clear,

clearly

and

understandable

be addressed so that

you

self-determined

can decide which data they disclose about themselves

want and which don't. We settle for one

respectful interaction with citizens on the internet.”

 

On March 14, 2022, the European Data Protection Board

(EDPB) in its 62nd session the guidelines on so-called

"Dark patterns" in the surface design of social

Networks (Guidelines on dark patterns in social media

platform interfaces) accepted. Under "Dark patterns" are

to understand surface structures and user experiences,

by the users due to the design and the

Design of Internet pages unconscious, unintentional

- 2 -

and potentially harmful decisions regarding

the processing of their personal data.

This will change their behavior and their ability to use their data

to protect effectively, significantly impaired.

 

With "dark patterns" people who are on social

Networks are active, frequently moving more data across

to reveal themselves more than they really want to; or you

are prevented from exercising their data subject rights.

 

Well-known examples of such manipulation attempts are

such as selection buttons of different sizes or colors (the

Provider colors the choice he wants in green, which in the

interest of the person concerned lying in red) or consciously

impractical designs that the users of it

prevent them from making the choice they actually want.

 

With the guidelines, the EDPB not only gives designers,

but also practical for users of social networks

Recommendations to recognize such “dark patterns” and

to counteract them. The guidelines contain many

concrete examples, some of which are illustrated with pictures

Categories and associated types of dark patterns. About that

In addition, positive “best practices” are presented in order to

to give practical guidance on how to do it better

can be. The structure of the guidelines is based on this

various use cases that characterize the life cycle of a social

Map media accounts: Among other things, examples are shown in the

As part of the registration, in the data protection settings

and deleting an account.

 

An overview of the categories and types of the "Dark

patterns" and in which use case the examples are assigned

can be found in the appendix to the guidelines. to

In each use case, the EDPB explains which standards of the GDPR

are particularly relevant. Also, in each example

explains why there is a violation of the GDPR.

- 3 -

 

The guidelines are under the leadership of the LfDI Baden-

Wuerttemberg

and

the

french

Data Protection Authority (CNIL) within the framework of the Social

Media Expert Subgroup emerged. In the Social Media Expert

The LfDI Baden-Württemberg acts as a subgroup of the EDSA

Hamburg as the German country representative and also has as

Coordinator co-chairs the subgroup

Norway inside.

 

The guidelines are now subject to six weeks

long the

public consultation, in which all interested parties from now on

Have the opportunity to provide feedback on content

on the guidelines to the EDPB. After this

Consultation phase, given comments flow into the

guidelines before they are finalized by the EDPB

be accepted.

 

 

Further information

 

The full text of the guidelines is in English

available at: https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-

tools/documents/public-consultations/2022/guidelines-32022-

dark-patterns-social-media_en

 
 

