Lejre Municipality is recommended for a fine
Date: 30-06-2020
Decision
Public authorities
Police report
Serious criticism
Reported breach of personal data security
Treatment safety
Children
Sensitive information
Notification of breach of personal data security
Unauthorized access
The Danish Data Protection Authority reports Lejre Municipality to the police, as the Danish Data Protection Authority assesses that the municipality has not met the requirements for an appropriate level of security in the data protection regulation.
Lejre Municipality has been fined DKK 50,000 for not having complied with its obligation as data controller to implement appropriate security measures.
The Danish Data Protection Authority became aware of the case when the municipality reported a breach of personal data security. It emerged from the case that Lejre Municipality's department, Center for Children and Young People, has had a fixed practice, according to which minutes of meetings containing personal data of a particularly sensitive and protective nature, including about citizens under the age of 18, have been uploaded to the municipality's employee portal. On the employee portal, there was potential access to the information for a large part of the municipality's employees, regardless of whether the employees in question worked with that type of case.
In the same case, the Danish Data Protection Authority has expressed serious criticism that Lejre Municipality has not met the requirement to notify the data subjects of the breach of personal data security.
Requirements for adequate security
"It is our general opinion that municipalities' processing of information of a confidential nature must be protected with access control as a minimum. As a starting point, only employees with a work-related need should have access to the information. In addition, logging – i.e. machine registration of all uses – will normally be a necessary and appropriate security measure when you as a municipality process such information", says Frederik Viksøe Siegumfeldt, head of the supervisory unit in the Data Protection Authority.
Recommendation for a fine
The Data Protection Authority has decided to report Lejre Municipality to the police and recommends that a claim be made that the municipality be fined DKK 50,000.
When determining the fine, the Danish Data Protection Authority has emphasized the nature of the breach (lack of processing security) as well as the nature and quantity of the personal data that has been the subject of the security breach. Emphasis has also been placed on the municipality's size in terms of population and the total operating grant.
In most European countries, the national data supervisors can themselves issue administrative fines, but the rules are different in e.g. Denmark.
In Denmark, it works in such a way that the Data Protection Authority reports the data controller to the police after clarifying and assessing the case. The police then investigate whether there is a basis for laying a charge, etc., and finally a possible fine will be decided by a court.
Do you want to know more?
Press inquiries can be directed to communications consultant Anders Due on tel. 29 49 32 83.