1(3)

MAG Interactive AB
Org. no: 556804-3524
Drottninggatan 95A
113 60 Stockholm

Diary number:
DI-2020-10538
Date:
2021-01-22

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation - MAG
Interactive AB
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority states that MAG Interactive AB has processed
personal data in violation of Article 12.3 of the Data Protection Regulation1 by not without
undue delay informed the appellant of the outcome of the appellant's request for
deletion according to article 17 of 29 May 2019 only on 6 November 2020.
The case is closed without action.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority (IMY) has started supervision of MAG Interactive AB
(the company) due to a complaint. The complaint has been handed over to IMY, i
capacity of responsible supervisory authority for the company's operations in accordance with Article 56
data protection regulation, from the supervisory authority in the country where the complainant has left
file its complaint in accordance with the regulation's provisions on cooperation i
cross-border matters.
In the complaint, it is claimed that the company has not handled the complainant's request for
deletion of the complainant's personal data in accordance with Article 17 of the Data Protection Regulation.

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm

MAG Interactive AB has essentially stated the following. The company first received a request
on deletion of the complainant's account on the company's services on 29 November 2018 (the
first request). Because the request came from a different email address than the one that
linked to the account, the company requested that the complainant return with evidence to
proof of his identity, which the appellant did not do. On May 29, 2019, a new one was received
request for the deletion of the complainant's account, but then by post and with the required
evidence to prove the identity of the complainant (the second request). The company deleted
the complainant's data manually on June 15, 2019 in accordance with the request, except that
information needed to demonstrate that the request has been processed. Due to oversight
however, the appellant was not notified of the outcome of the request in connection with that

Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on
repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
1

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10538
Date: 2021-01-22

2(3)

the request was resolved. Instead, it only happened in connection with the review before the answer in
this supervisory matter, i.e. on 6 November 2020.
The proceedings have taken place through an exchange of letters. In light of the fact that it applies to a
cross-border complaints, IMY has used the mechanisms for cooperation
and uniformity found in Chapter VII of the Data Protection Regulation. Affected
supervisory authorities have been the data protection authorities of Norway, Ireland, France,
Austria, Denmark, Poland and Germany.

Justification of decisions
Applicable regulations
According to Article 12.3 of the Data Protection Regulation, the person in charge of personal data must
request without undue delay and in any case no later than one month after
to have received the request provide the registered information about the actions that
taken in accordance with Article 17. This period may be extended by a further two if necessary
months, taking into account the complexity of the request and the number received
requests. The personal data controller must notify the data subject of a
such extension within one month from the receipt of the request and state the reasons
to the delay.
According to Article 12.6, the personal data controller may, if he has reasonable grounds to
doubt the identity of the natural person submitting a request under Article 17,
request that additional information necessary to confirm it was recorded
identity provided.
According to Article 17.1 a, the data subject shall have the right to the personal data controller
without undue delay have their personal data deleted and the
the personal data controller shall be obliged to delete without undue delay
personal data if the personal data is no longer necessary for the purposes for
which they are collected or otherwise processed. According to Article 17.3 b, this shall not
apply to the extent that the processing is necessary to fulfill a legal
obligation that requires treatment under Union law.
According to Article 57.1 f, each supervisory authority in its territory shall be responsible for
process complaints from a registered person and, where appropriate, investigate the matter
to which the complaint relates.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority's assessment
Regarding the first request, IMY notes that MAG Interactive AB had reasonable
reason to doubt the appellant's identity and thus grounds for requesting that the appellant
submitted further evidence, which the appellant did not. IMY considers against this
background that the company has not been obliged to take any further measures with
reason for that request.
Regarding the second request, IMY notes that the company deleted the complainant's
data, except the data required to show that the request has been handled, within
16 days from the company receiving the request on 29 May 2019. IMY considers that the company has
deleted the complainant's data without undue delay in the sense referred to in Article
17 data protection regulation. Furthermore, the company has been justified in retaining the information

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10538
Date: 2021-01-22

3(3)

which is needed to be able to demonstrate that the request has been handled in accordance with
data protection regulation.
However, the company only informed the complainant about the outcome of the second request
November 6, 2020. Because the personal data controller according to Article 12.3 without
unnecessary delay and in any case no later than one month after receiving
the request, with an exception not relevant here, must inform the data subject of the
measures taken in accordance with Article 17, MAG Interactive AB has violated Article 12.3
data protection regulation.
The company has stated that the reason why the complainant was not informed of the result
of the request was due to an oversight. According to the company, this was mainly due to
that the request was handled manually because it was received by post and that the company normally
handles requests in a system where notifications about actions taken are sent
automatically. Due to the incident, the company has stated that it will see
over their routines so that what happened is not repeated. The company will, among other things, set
up a separate log for manual cases to ensure that all steps are followed, incl
that the user is notified in the way it has requested.
IMY states that it is of course important that the person responsible for personal data notifies
it recorded what measures have been taken in connection with his
request, even in cases where the request is met in full to the extent that may be required.
In light of the circumstances regarding the violation that the company has highlighted
- and the measures that the company has stated that it has taken and will take - believes
however, IMY that the substantive issue in the complaint is investigated to the extent that is appropriate according to
article 57.1 f of the data protection regulation.
Against this background, the case is closed without action.

This decision has been taken by the unit manager Catharina Fernquist after a presentation by
the lawyer Olle Pettersson.
Catharina Fernquist, 2021-01-22 (This is an electronic signature)

