 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink
Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 August 20, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 Event tip, Tuesday, September 14, 2021, 6:30 p.m

 
“From followers to responsible citizens – freedom is a must
you want" - LfDI Stefan Brink in conversation with the
Sociologist Harald Welzer
 
On Tuesday, September 14, the sociologist and
Publicist Harald Welzer and the state representative for the
Data protection and freedom of information Stefan Brink about the
Effects of digitization on the data-driven
Company. The event “From follower to empowered
Citizens – you have to want freedom” will take place from 6:30 p.m
hybrid event
at the
state representative.

on-line

and

location

before

are

their downsides

In addition to the unconditional advantages that digitization
offers,
unmistakable. the
Digitization is really getting to people:
Companies, especially data-driven digital groups,
are particularly interested in private relationships
of people, for their health data, movement profiles,
political opinions, credit ratings, current moods.

- 2 -

Because they can make money from it. Governments too
interested in such information, not necessarily from
economic reasons, here are issues of control and
of internal security rather guiding action.

How can civil rights be effectively strengthened and
Citizens are supported in their will to engage in the
move freely in the digital world, but not at its mercy
be? Harald Welzer and Stefan Brink address these questions
and discuss how the freedom potential of the
digitized society can be recaptured.

event

“From follower to responsible citizen – you have to have freedom
want" - LfDI Stefan Brink in conversation with Harald Welzer

When? Tuesday, September 14, 2021, 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m

Where? Online via BigBlueButton and on site at
State representative at Lautenschlagerstraße 20, 70173
Stuttgart. The number of participants is limited.

Please register by September 8, 2021

Further information about the event and registration:
https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/online-und-
on-site-lfdi-stefan-brink-in-conversation-with-the-sociologist-
harald-welzer/

 

