1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00262/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The General Directorate of the Civil Guard (Company of Manzanares,
Post of Bolaños) transfers to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, dated
May 13, 2019, the actions followed in relation to a usurpation of
identity in the contracting of telecommunications services, which took place on
February 26, 2019.

The claim filed by D. A.A.A. and Mrs. B.B.B. (hereinafter the

claimants).

The claim is directed against XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. with NIF A82528548

(hereinafter, the claimed).

Providing the following documentation:

 Report No. 2019-000593-00000110 dated February 26, 2019 in which
the claimants state that according to information from the company they have been
registered two telephone and internet lines with numbers ***TELEFONO.1 and
***TELEFONO.2 and with a charge account that is not yours. The
morning of February 25, 2019 the telephone company contacts
with one of his daughters informing her that, if they do not pay the amounts
owed to said numbers, the service would be interrupted.

 Summary of the actions carried out by the Civil Guard of Bolaños

 MASMOVIL (XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.) contracts for telephone lines

of Calatrava (Ciudad Real).

denounced.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced, the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions
for the clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

 In addition, the following extremes are noted:
  Examining the information provided by the Civil Guard, it is confirmed that the
lines reported have been contracted by persons other than the claimants. Nope
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

debts pending payment were produced by the claimants, since in the
contracts included the bank account of the people who had supplanted the
identity of the claimants. These people, who used the DNI of the claimants
for both contracts, they lived at the same address as this one and have been identified
by the Civil Guard from the bank accounts provided in the contract.

Required information from the respondent about the measures adopted after the
reception of the complaint before the Civil Guard of Bolaños of a possible impersonation
of identity in contracting the lines ***TELEFONO.1 and ***TELEFONO.2 and on
the guarantees required for the accreditation of identity in the contracting of the
aforementioned telephone lines.

On January 16, 2020, the respondent states that according to his
investigations, the reported lines have been classified as hiring
fraudulent, and the debts associated with them have been forgiven.

They provide a screenshot of the data that works in their systems of the

reported lines.

THIRD: On September 8, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 a) of the GDPR.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations in which, in summary, he stated that he was aware of the
usurpation of the identity of the claimant on February 25, 2019, providing
subsequently denounced on February 26, 2019 and dated March 4, 2019,
proceeded to the suspension of services and the cancellation of the debt generated
to date for fraudulent hiring. This led to the blocking of the data
of the interested parties and the cataloging of the registration as fraudulent.

They add that the lack of diligence in the custody of the DNI cannot be transferred to the

reclaimed.

On the other hand, they manifest the inexistence of the elements of the right
sanctioning, they do not appreciate the concrete existence of the principle of responsibility, since
that no intentional or negligent action is revealed from which the
same. Therefore, as there is no evidence of fraud or fault on the part of the defendant, nor so
even by way of mere non-observance, in relation to the facts that originate the
sanctioning procedure, it can only lead to its file.

FIFTH: On October 13, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigative actions, E/08518/2019, as well as the documents
provided by the claimant.
 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: Two telephone and internet lines have been registered in the name of the
claimants. The usurpation of identity in the contracting of services of
telecommunications, took place on February 26, 2019.

SECOND: The defendant acknowledges said error and thus in his allegations states
that the reported lines have been classified as fraudulent hiring, and
the debts associated with them have been forgiven.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of the

Article 6.1 of the RGPD.

                                                                                   
Article 6, Legality of the treatment, of the RGPD establishes that:
"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”
Article 4 of the GDPR, Definitions, in section 11, states that:
“11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through
a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that
concern him”.

Also article 6, Treatment based on the consent of the affected party,
of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), indicates
that:

"1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, consent of the affected party is understood to be any manifestation of will
free, specific, informed and unequivocal by which he accepts, either through a

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

2. When the data processing is intended to be based on consent
of the affected party for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the principles
basic for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent in accordance with
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the
mentioned article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, “with administrative fines of
€20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an equivalent amount
at a maximum of 4% of the total global annual turnover of the financial year
above, opting for the highest amount.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD in its article 72 indicates for prescription purposes:

“Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

III

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it processed the personal data
without having any legitimacy for it. The personal data was
incorporated into the company's information systems, without having accredited
that he had legitimately contracted, had his consent for the
collection and subsequent processing of your personal data, or there is any other
cause that made the treatment carried out lawful.

Well, with respect to the facts that are the subject of this claim,
We must emphasize that the respondent has recognized said error and thus both in his writing
dated January 16, 2019, as in the allegations to the Initiation Agreement of the
present sanctioning procedure has stated that the lines denounced have
been classified as fraudulent hiring, and the debts associated with them have
been condoned.

The lack of diligence displayed by the entity in complying with the
obligations imposed by the personal data protection regulations
it is therefore evident. Diligent compliance with the principle of legality in the treatment
of third-party data requires that the data controller be in a position
to prove it (principle of proactive responsibility).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

5/7

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed,
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which
point out:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
yes, as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages
that they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.
In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its
Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:“2. According to
the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 may also
be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of
data.
h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

v

In accordance with the precepts transcribed for the purpose of setting the amount of the
sanction of a fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD for which the claimed party is responsible are estimated
concurrent the following factors:

Extenuating:

- Any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties (art.83.2. c) of the RGPD).

Aggravating factors:

- The intentionality or negligence of the infringement (art.83.2. b) of the RGPD).

- Basic personal identifiers are affected (personal data

(art.83.2. g) of the RGPD).

- The obvious link between the business activity of the defendant and the
processing of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
RGPD in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD)

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE XFERA MÓVILES, S.A., with NIF A82528548, for a
violation of Article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine
of 40,000 euros.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to XFERA MÓVILES, S.A.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

