
Following the media reports that the personal data of 4,000 citizens who applied for vaccination were deleted from the online platform Cijepisi, we would like to inform the public that the Personal Data Protection Agency has initiated supervisory actions against the Ministry of Health, as the head of processing, in order to determine the actual situation. on possible breach of personal data. Upon completion of the proceedings, we will inform the public of all relevant information related to this case.
We also want to inform citizens if they think that their personal data has been deleted or want to exercise their rights under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation, to contact the head of processing, or in this case the Ministry of Health that processes their personal data.
Through the right to access data, citizens can request information / confirmation from the Ministry of Health whether their personal data entered when registering on the cijepise.zdravlje.hr platform are being processed. Pursuant to Article 15 of the General Regulation on Data Protection, the controller, in this case the Ministry of Health, must respond to a request for access to personal data within one month.
On the official website of the Agency, it is possible to download the application form for exercising the rights of respondents that citizens can use when contacting the Ministry of Health, but also in any situation when they want to exercise their rights guaranteed by the General Data Protection Regulation. When filling out the form, it is necessary to indicate the desired right - the right to access personal data.
We additionally note that citizens, in addition to the right to confirm / information whether their personal data are processed, have the right to information on the purposes of processing, categories of personal data processed if any, data on recipients or categories of recipients to whom the respondent's personal data is transmitted. duration of processing or at least criteria from which it can be determined how long the processing of the respondent's personal data will take, the respondent's rights regarding processing (eg right to rectification or erasure of personal data and right to complain to the competent supervisory authority), data on sources of personal data to the respondent if the controller did not collect personal data directly from the respondent, data on the operation of the automatic data processing system if the controller uses such systems for automated decision making.
We also take this opportunity to point out that the right to protection of personal data is a fundamental right of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the General Data Protection Regulation. online brochures Rights of respondents https://azop.hr/wp-content/uploads/2021/02/Vodic-prava-ispitanika.pdf, Agency website www.azop.hr and mobile applications #GDPR CROATIA.

