 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  18/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  of  the  Netherlands  regarding  the 
approval of the requirements for accreditation of a code of 
conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

 

Adopted on 23 July 2020 

 

Adopted  

1 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................ 4 

ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the NL SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies
5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS ......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................... 6 

EXPERTISE ........................................................................................................................ 7 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 8 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING .......................................................................... 8 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 9 

REVIEW MECHANISMS .................................................................................................... 9 

LEGAL STATUS ............................................................................................................... 10 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................................................................... 10 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................. 11 

 

Adopted  

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency. The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance  explaining  the  accreditation  requirements;  and,  finally,  requesting  the  competent  SAs  to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes. They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of  effectively  monitoring  the  code.  The  GDPR  does  not  define  the  term  “accreditation”.  However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

                                                           
1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

Adopted  

3 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out  in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The Dutch Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “NL SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 28 May 2020. 

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

2. 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be  in line with the eight  areas outlined by the  Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

Adopted  

4 

4. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises”  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).  Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

5. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

6.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

NL SA to take further action.  

7. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the NL SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

  Analysis of the NL SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s 

monitoring bodies 

8. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

9.  The Board observes that, according to the general notes of the draft accreditation requirements, the 
NL SA reserves the right to conduct a risk-based review of the monitoring body to ensure that the body 
still meets the requirements for accreditation, whereas such a review could be initiated by (but is not 
limited to): amendments to the code of conduct, substantial changes to the monitoring body or the 
monitoring  body  failing  to  deliver  its  monitoring  functions.  The  Board  welcomes  the  provision 
concerning the re-assessment, according to a risk-based approach, of the accreditation requirements 
by  the  NL  SA  in  order  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  GDPR.  However,  for  the  sake  of  clarity  and 
transparency, the Board recommends the NL SA to explicitly state that in case of substantial changes 
to  the  monitoring  body  relating  to  the  monitoring  body’s  ability  to  function  independently  and 
effectively, such a review will be always conducted.  

10. 

The Board encourages the NL SA to include either in the draft accreditation requirements or in the 
complementary guidance to the requirements, some examples of the information or documents that 
applicants have to submit when applying for accreditation. 

Adopted  

5 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

 

INDEPENDENCE 

that 

the  NL  SA’s 

‘explanatory  notes’ 

The  Board  observes 
the 
requirements for independence, refer to independence “from the code owner or the code members”. 
As  stated  in  the  Guidelines,  the  independence  of  the  body  concerned  should  be  demonstrated  in 
relation also to the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies (para. 63). Therefore, the 
Board recommends that the NL SA redraft this reference in line with the Guidelines and put it in the 
‘requirements’ section – so as to clarify that this is a requirement itself.  

section  concerning 

The Board notes that the first paragraph of section 1.1 in the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements 
fits better into the relevant ‘explanatory notes’ section. Therefore, the Board encourages the NL SA to 
appropriately move this paragraph. 

The Board welcomes the requirement that  the legal structure of the monitoring body, including its 
ownership, must shield the monitoring body from external influence (subsection 1.1.1 in the NL SA’s 
draft accreditation requirements), as well as the provision of relevant examples of how this might be 
demonstrated. However, the Board encourages the NL SA to clarify that this external influence should 
be considered with respect to the code owner and the code members. Moreover, with regard to the 
relevant examples, the Board encourages the NL SA to clarify the term ‘articles of incorporation’, as 
well as to add, as a relevant example, that the duration, or expiration of the mandate of the monitoring 
body should be fixed in such a way as to prevent overdependence on a renewal or fear of losing the 
appointment,  to  an  extent  that  adversely  affects  the  independence  in  carrying  out  the  monitoring 
activities by the monitoring body. 

Furthermore, the Board is of the opinion that internal monitoring bodies can be set up only within a 
code owner. Therefore, the Board recommends that this is clarified and reflected in the text of the 
draft  accreditation  requirements  in  the  subsection  1.1.2  –  e.g.  by  replacing  “for  example”  with “in 
particular”. 

In subsection 1.1.3 in the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it is stated that “the monitoring 
body shall demonstrate organisational independence, for example, an internal monitoring body may 
use  different logos or names  where appropriate”. The  Board welcomes  such an example; however, 
especially for the case of internal monitoring bodies, the Board encourages the NL SA to add more 
concrete  examples  of  evidence  illustrating  organizational  independence  of  an  internal  monitoring 
body, such as, e.g., information barriers and separate reporting structures. 

16.  With  regard  to  the  legal  status  and  decision-making  process  (section  1.1  in  the  NL  SA’s  draft 
accreditation requirements), the Board acknowledges the impartiality of the monitoring body from the 
code  members.  However,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  these  requirements  should  be  further 
specified,  particularly  with  regard  to  any  legal  and  economic  links  that  may  exist  between  the 
monitoring  body  and  the  code  owner  or  code  members,  as  well  as  with  regard  to  the  profession, 
industry or sector to which the code applies. For this reason, the Board encourages the NL SA to amend 
this section accordingly. 

17. 

Furthermore, the Board considers that the section concerning the financial independence (section 1.2 
in  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements)  should  address  the  boundary  conditions  that 
determine  the  concrete  requirements  for  financial  independence  and  sufficient  resources.  These 
include the number, size and complexity of the code members (as monitored entities), the nature and 
scope  of  their  activities  (which  are  the  subject  of  the  code)  and  the  risk(s)  associated  with  the 

Adopted  

6 

processing  operation(s).  Therefore,  the  Board  encourages  the  NL  SA  to  redraft  the  requirements 
accordingly.  

18.  Moreover, as for the financial requirements (section 1.2), the Board considers that such requirements 
would benefit from the inclusion of some examples with regard to the financial independence of the 
monitoring body, in order to highlight how the monitoring body can demonstrate that the means by 
which it obtains financial support should not adversely affect its independence (subsection 1.2.2). For 
instance, the monitoring body would not be considered financially independent if the rules governing 
its financial support allow a code member, who is under investigation by the monitoring body, to stop 
its financial contributions to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from the monitoring body. The 
Board  encourages  the  NL  SA  to  provide  examples  of  how  the  monitoring  body  can  provide  such 
evidence. 

19. 

The  Board  welcomes  the  provision  in  the  subsection  1.3.1  in  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements  that  “the  monitoring  body  shall  demonstrate  that  it  has  adequate  resources  and 
personnel to effectively perform its tasks”. The Guidelines though provide further specialisation on this, 
stating  that  the  resources  should  be  proportionate  to  the  expected  number  and  seize  of  code 
members, as well as the complexity or degree of risk of the relevant data processing. Therefore, the 
Board encourages the NL SA to redraft this requirement in line with the Guidelines. 

20.  Moreover, with respect to subsection 1.3.1, the Board encourages the NL SA to include a reference to 

technical resources necessary for the effective performance of the monitoring body’s tasks.  

21. 

22. 

Subsection  1.3.3  (under  the  section  on  “organisational  independence”)  refers  to  the  use  of  sub-
contractors by the monitoring body. The Board is of the opinion that, even when subcontractors are 
used, the monitoring body shall ensure effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting 
entity. Although the Board identifies that the examples given in this subsection are in this direction, 
the  Board  recommends  the  NL  SA  to  explicitly  clarify  this  requirement  in  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements. 

The Board observes that, according to subsection 1.3.3 of the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, 
when using sub-contractors for processes relating to monitoring actions, evidence for demonstrating 
that the use of subcontractors does not remove or diminish the responsibility of the monitoring body 
may include “written contacts or agreements to outline for example responsibilities, confidentiality, 
what type of data will be held and a requirement that the data is kept secure”, as well as a documented 
clear procedure for subcontracting. The Board encourages the NL SA to redraft the text in order to 
include requirements relating to the termination of those contracts, in particular so as to ensure that 
the subcontractors fulfil their data protection obligations.  

23. 

The Board observes that subsection 1.4.1 under the section on “accountability” is more related to legal 
and  decision  making  procedures  (i.e.  to  section  1.1)  than  accountability.  Therefore,  the  Board 
encourages the NL SA to make an appropriate amendment in the text.   

  EXPERTISE 

24.  Regarding the accreditation requirement in terms of the expertise of the monitoring body (section 2 
in the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements), the Board acknowledges that the guidelines set a high 
bar  requiring  monitoring  bodies  to  have  an  in-depth  understanding  of  data  protection  issues. 

Adopted  

7 

25. 

Therefore, the Board encourages the NL SA to appropriately amend the relevant requirement in the 
subsection 2.2. 

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

The  Board  observes  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  refers  twice  to  “the  number 
of code members”.  More precisely,  in  the  third  paragraph  in  the  ‘explanatory notes’  subsection of 
section 3 on established procedures and structures, the number of code members is being mentioned 
as a factor to be taken into account by the monitoring procedures. The Board also notes the same 
reference 
requirements 
3.2.  Provided  that  the  number  of  code  members  might  not  be  known  when  the  monitoring  body 
applies for accreditation and that may change considerably after the accreditation has been granted, 
the  Board recommends the  NL SA to include,  in both above  places,  appropriate  references to “the 
expected  number  and  size  of  code  members”,  to  align  the  text  with  the  Guidelines  and  allow 
for more flexibility.  

members’ 

‘number 

code 

to 

of 

in 

26.  Moreover, in the same subsection, it is stated (last paragraph) that “the monitoring body shall apply 
the penalties as defined in the code of conduct”. By only referring to penalties, the explanatory note 
seems to restrict the margin of manoeuvre of the monitoring body with regard to the kind of measures 
it can apply. The Board considers that a more comprehensive wording would also mention corrective 
measures, and encourages the NL SA to add the suggested reference in the explanatory note.   

27.  With  regard  to  established  procedures  and  structures  (section  3  in  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation 
requirements), the Board is of the opinion that the procedures to monitor compliance with codes of 
conduct  have  to  be  specific  enough  to  ensure  a  consistent  application  of  the  obligations  of  code 
monitoring bodies. In particular, the monitoring body should provide evidence of upfront, ad hoc and 
regular procedures to monitor the compliance of members within a clear timeframe, and check the 
eligibility  of  members  prior  to  joining  the  code.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  NL  SA 
develop further these requirements and add examples of the above procedures (such as, procedures 
providing for audit plans to be carried out over a definite period and on the basis of predetermined 
criteria). 

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

28.  With  regard  to  the  complaints  handling  procedure,  the  Board  observes  that  the  explanatory  note 
(section  4  in  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements)  states that  “personnel  will  demonstrate 
sufficient knowledge and impartiality”. The Board considers that the level of knowledge required to 
handle complaints would be better understood if the NL SA refers to “adequate knowledge” defining 
its meaning and therefore it encourages the NL SA to do so.  

29. 

The Board notes that in the subsection 4.1 in the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements regarding 
complaints against code members, it is stated that “the monitoring body shall provide evidence of a 
clear  framework  for  a  publicly  available,  accessible  and  easily  understood  complaints  handling  and 
decision-making  process”.  The  Board  encourages  the  NL  SA  to  consider  practical  examples  for  the 
process  of  a  complaints  handling  procedure,  such  as  that  the  monitoring  body  should  outline  a 
procedure to receive, manage and process complaints, which in turn shall be publicly available and 
easily accessible. 

30. 

The  Board observes  that  in  the  subsection 4.4  in  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  it  is 
stated that the monitoring body should inform the SA about the measures taken and justification of 

Adopted  

8 

any infringements leading to code member suspension or exclusion. However the Board recommends 
the  NL  SA  to  also  include  the  notification  to  the  code  members  and  code  owner  as  explicit 
requirements, in line with the Guidelines. 

31.  Regarding  section  4.6  in  the  NL  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board  notes  that  the 
decisions of the monitoring body shall be made publicly available in line with its complaints handling 
procedure, whereas this information could include but is not limited to, general statistical information 
concerning  the  number  and  type  of  complaints/infringements  and  the  resolutions/corrective 
measures  issued  and  shall  include  information  concerning  any  sanctions  leading  to  suspensions  or 
exclusions of code members. Without prejudice to national legislation, the Board encourages the NL 
SA to amend this requirement so that decisions are published when they relate to repeated and/or 
serious violations, such as the ones that could lead to the suspension or exclusion of the controller or 
processor concerned from the code, otherwise publication of summaries of decisions or statistical data 
should be considered adequate.  

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

32. The  Board  takes  note  that 

in  the  NL  SA’s 

‘explanatory  notes’  section  concerning  the 
requirements  for  non-conflict  of  interest,  some  possible  sources  of  risks  to  impartiality  of  the 
monitoring body are being described. However, the Board is of the opinion that, for practical reasons, 
more concrete examples of cases where a conflict of interest could arise might be helpful. An example 
of  a  conflict  of  interest  situation  would  be  the  case  where  personnel  conducting  audits  or  making 
decisions on behalf of a monitoring body had previously worked for any of the organisations adhering 
to the code. In order to avoid any conflict of interest, the personnel would declare their interest and 
the work would be reallocated. Therefore, the Board encourages the NL SA to add some examples in 
the requirements.  

33. 

34. 

The Board notes that in the Section 5.1 in the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it is stated that 
“the monitoring body shall have in place a documented procedure to identify, analyse, evaluate, treat, 
monitor and document on an ongoing basis any risks to impartiality arising from its activities”. The 
Board recommends the NL SA, in line with the Guidelines, to amend this requirement so as to explicitly 
stress that the monitoring body shall refrain from any action incompatible with its tasks and duties. 

The Board also notes that the monitoring body, according to the subsection 5.2 in the NL SA’s draft 
accreditation  requirements,  shall  choose  or  direct  and  manage  its  personnel.  The  Board  is  of  the 
opinion that this requirement should be aligned with the Guidelines by explicitly adding the possibility 
that the staff can be provided by other body independent of the code. In this direction, some examples 
might  also  be  helpful.  An  example  of  staff  provided  by  a  body  independent  of  the  code  would  be 
monitoring  body  personnel  that  have  been  recruited  by  an  independent  external  company,  which 
provides recruitment and human resources services. Therefore, the Board encourages the NL SA to 
appropriately amend this requirement. 

  REVIEW MECHANISMS 

35. 

The Board observes that, in the subsection 7.1 in the NL SA’s draft accreditation requirements, it is 
stated that “the monitoring body will contribute to reviews of the code as required by the code owner 
and shall therefore ensure that it has documented plans and procedures to review the operation of the 
code to ensure that the code remains relevant to the members and continues to meet the application 
of the GDPR”. In line with the Guidelines, the review mechanisms should take into account any changes 
in the application and interpretation of the law or where there are new technological developments 

Adopted  

9 

which have impact upon the data processing carried out by the code members or the provisions of the 
code. Therefore, the Board encourages the NL SA to appropriately enrich this requirement. 

  LEGAL STATUS 

36.  With regard to the legal status of the monitoring body, the NL SA’s explanatory note for this section 
states that the monitoring body “must demonstrate sufficient financial and other resources to deliver 
its specific duties and responsibilities”. The Board considers that the existence of sufficient financial 
and other resources should be accompanied with the necessary procedures to ensure the functioning 
of  the  code  of  conduct  over  time.  Thereby,  the  Board  encourages  that  the  NL  SA  amend  the 
explanatory note, adding the above-mentioned reference to “procedures”.  

37.  Moreover,  the  code  of  conduct  itself  will  need  to  demonstrate  that  the  operation  of  the  code’s 
monitoring mechanism is sustainable over time, covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring 
body being unable to perform the monitoring function. In this regard, it would be advisable to require 
that a monitoring body demonstrates that it can deliver the code of conduct’s monitoring mechanism 
over  a  suitable  period  of  time.  Therefore,  the  Board  recommends  NL  SA  to  explicitly  require  that 
monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over time. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

38. 

The  draft  accreditation  requirements  of  the  NL  Supervisory  Authority  may  lead  to  an  inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

39.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

   1. Explicitly state that in case of substantial changes to the monitoring body relating to the monitoring 
body’s ability to function independently  and effectively,  a review  of the  body to ensure  that it  still 
meets the requirements for accreditation will be always conducted. 

40.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

1.  Redraft the explanatory note reference to ‘requirements for independence’ so that it is in line 
with the Guidelines, pointing out that the independence should be demonstrated in relation 
also  to  the  profession,  industry  or  sector  to  which  the  code  applied,  and  put  in  the 
‘requirements’ section;  

2. Clarify in the paragraph 1.1.2 that internal monitoring bodies can be set up only within a code 

owner.  

3.  Add  in  section  1.3.3  that  when  subcontractors  are  used,  the  monitoring  body  shall  ensure 

effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity. 

41.  Regarding conflict of interest the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

1. To amend the requirement in Section 5.1 so as to explicitly stress that the monitoring body shall 

refrain from any action incompatible with its tasks and duties, in line with the Guidelines.  

42.  Regarding established procedures and structures the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

Adopted  

10 

1. Include  appropriate references to “the expected number and size of code of code members” 
in the ‘explanatory notes’ subsection of section 3 and in the requirements 3.2, to align the text with 
the Guidelines and allow for more flexibility.  

2. Further develop under section 3 the procedures to monitor compliance with codes of conduct 

and includes examples of such procedures.  

43.  Regarding transparent complaint handling the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

1. Include in the requirements 4.4 that information about the measures taken and justification of 
any infringements leading to code member suspension or exclusion should be additionally provided to 
the code members and code owner, in line with the Guidelines. 

44.  Regarding legal status the Board recommends that the NL SA: 

1. Require that the monitoring body should demonstrate that it can deliver the code’s monitoring 

mechanism over a suitable period of time.  

  FINAL REMARKS 

45. 

This opinion is addressed to the NL supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to Article 
64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

46.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the NL SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within two weeks after  receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

47. 

The NL SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted  

11 

