

Bonn/Berlin, June 13, 2019


Press release 18/2019


  Freedom of information officers from the federal and state governments are calling for a mandatory lobby register
In order to strengthen citizens' trust in politics, the 37th Conference of Freedom of Information Officers (IFK) called for the mandatory introduction of lobby registers at its meeting in Saarbr端cken yesterday.

The resolution entitled "Transparency in the context of political decision-making processes - introducing a mandatory lobby register" aims to appeal to federal and state legislators to document lobbyists' influence, especially in legislative processes, and thus make it publicly comprehensible.
J端rgen H. M端ller, who took part in the conference as Deputy Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information for the BfDI, underlined the importance of the joint initiative: Unfortunately, individual scandals and incidents have led to the population's trust in political decision-making processes being lost in the last has suffered for years. Trust in the state is essential for a functioning democracy. Lobby registers lead to more transparency in legislative processes and can thus contribute to regaining trust.
Furthermore, in a joint position paper, the freedom of information officers have dealt with how digital change in public administration can be designed in a constructive and citizen-friendly manner. The conference calls for "freedom of information by design". The IFK formulates concrete framework conditions and measures that can contribute to transparency in administration already playing an important role in the development of technical and organizational measures.
The IFK is an association of federal and state freedom of information officers with the aim of promoting freedom of information.

On the subject
Resolution of the 37th Conference of Freedom of Information Officers (IFK) in Germany on June 12, 2019 in Saarbr端cken on the lobby register position paper of the 37th Conference of Freedom of Information Officers (IFK) on "Freedom of Information by design"




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











