1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00364/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on June 26, 2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed
against CLUB ATLANTIDA SUB OF SANTA CRUZ DE TENERIFE with NIF G38097754 (in
later, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that on June 25, 2019, the Board
Board of Club Atlántida Sub in Santa Cruz de Tenerife (composed of B.B.B. as
President, C.C.C. as Vice President, D.D.D. as Secretary, E.E.E. as Treasurer and
F.F.F. as Member, as the partners were informed by email on the 17th
June of the current) sent an email at 7:38 p.m. from the address ***EMAIL.1 to all
partners without blind copying, making personal email addresses accessible to
all partners.

On June 26, he requested the Board of Directors by email to the address
***EMAIL.1 to send an email to all partners requesting that they delete the
above with email addresses from both your inbox and trash.
Not having received a response.

Likewise, it states that on ***DATE.1 F.F.F. shared at 17.04 in a forum of the
Discord app a screenshot with email addresses of Club members
Atlantis Sub from Santa Cruz de Tenerife. F.F.F. He is a member of the Board of Directors of said
club and is the user ***USER.1 on the Discord forum.

SECOND: In accordance with the mechanism prior to the admission for processing of the
claims that are formulated before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, foreseen
in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights, which consists of transferring the
same to the Data Protection Delegates designated by those responsible or
in charge of the treatment, or to these when they have not been designated, and with the purpose
indicated in the aforementioned article, on August 23, 2019, transfer of this
claim to the claimed entity, requesting information on the causes that have
motivated the incidence that has originated the claim and the measures adopted to
prevent similar incidents from occurring.

The respondent answered the request for information stating the following:

“On June 25, 2019, an email was sent where the
security incident.

This is an email with no relevant data relating to a partner dinner.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

In the shipping addresses, due to human error, a copy is sent to all partners
without using the Bcc tool so senders can see the emails
from the rest of the partners.

The email sending protocol foresees that the sending of emails with
multiple recipients is by BCC to prevent recipients from knowing the
mail from the rest of them.

To solve the incident, the following measures are agreed:

a) Remember the rules of use of the club's e-mail

b) Verbal warning to the person who sent the mail.

c) Preparation of a protocol for action in incidents of the same characteristics for the
sending e-mails with multiple recipients, with the incorporation of a mail model of
communication with those affected.

In relation to the message that was not answered to the member of the claimant Club of the
the present case, the reason is that the action protocol had not been implemented in
incidences of sending emails with multiple recipients, although there were
taking into account the facts reported in said email for the adoption of the measures
by the members of the board.

As far as the Discord application is concerned, it is a chat-application created by an individual
member of the previous board. The current board is aware of said message due to
the notification of the AEPD since the access as administrators of the application is
produced after said message. The message has been deleted by the current board
since it was the only possible measure.

A meeting of partners is planned to apologize to those affected by the
facts included here and inform them of the removal of the Discord application as a means
of communication between the members and the Club. In the event that the partners request the
conservation of said application, the members will be informed that the meeting of The Club will
unlinks from the App proceeding to delete the user linked to the board and losing
with it any control over the messages that were published in that application. “

THIRD: On September 19, 2019, there is a written entry from the claimant
stating that on September 16, 2019, the respondent again sent an email to
all partners without blind copying, sharing the addresses of approximately 300
partners.

FOURTH: On November 29, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning party is given a hearing period of TEN WORKING DAYS to formulate

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate, in accordance with the
stipulated in articles 73 and 76 of Law 39/2015 on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations.

 TO: Not having made allegations or presented evidence within the given period,

SEX
This resolution is issued taking into account the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On June 25, 2019, the Board of Directors of Club Atlántida Sub in Santa
Cruz de Tenerife sent an email at 7:38 p.m. from the address ***EMAIL.1 to all
partners without blind copying, making personal email addresses accessible to everyone
the partners.

SECOND: On August 23, 2019, this claim is transferred to the
claimed entity, requesting information on the causes that have motivated the
incident that gave rise to the claim and the measures taken to prevent it from occurring.
produce similar incidents.

The respondent answered the request for information stating that in order to resolve the
incident, the following measures are agreed:

a) Remember the rules of use of the club's e-mail

b) Verbal warning to the person who sent the mail.

c) Preparation of a protocol for action in incidents of the same characteristics for the
sending emails with multiple recipients, with the addition of a model
email communication with those affected.

THIRD: Despite the measures adopted, on September 16, 2019, the defendant
sent an email again to all partners without a blind copy, sharing the addresses
of approximately 300 members.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Spanish Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2
of the RGPD and in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the

treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for

those that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data that is
inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data; the
personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are processed
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to
the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this
Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the term
of conservation”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions

in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

This claim denounces that the respondent has sent the claimant
a promotional email, addressed to a multitude of recipients, without a copy
hidden.

This Agency communicates such facts to the respondent, so that he informs

the causes of the incident and adopt the appropriate measures to remedy it.

In response to this, the respondent replies that the email object of the
claim, submitted on June 25, 2019, was due to human error and that the
same June 26, 2019, measures were agreed to correct the facts, such as remembering the
rules of use of electronic mail in the club, the verbal warning to the person who
sent the mail and prepared the action protocol in incidents of
same features for sending e-mails with multiple recipients, with
incorporation of a communication mail model with those affected.

Despite the measures adopted, on September 16, 2019, the respondent sent
again an email to all partners without a blind copy, sharing the addresses of
approximately 300 members.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the violation of article 5.1 f) is confirmed.
of the RGPD, which governs the principles of integrity and confidentiality of personal data,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

as well as the proactive responsibility of the data controller to demonstrate its
compliance.

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe the
three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD,
in your art. 58.2 b) establishes the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation
with what is stated in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CLUB ATLANTIDA SUB OF SANTA CRUZ DE TENERIFE,
with NIF G38097754, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: REQUEST CLUB ATLANTIDA SUB FROM SANTA CRUZ DE TENERIFE,
with NIF G38097754, so that within a month from this act of notification
accredit before this body the adoption of the technical or organizational measures
appropriate to guarantee adequate security regarding the personal data that
trafficking, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss,
accidental destruction or damage, in accordance with article 5.1 f) of the RGPD

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to CLUB ATLANTIDA SUB DE SANTA
CRUZ DE TENERIFE, with NIF G38097754.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

