
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09/29/2020
                                Dieter Kugelmann has been the state data protection officer for 5 years - "Data protection is a mandatory part of the increasing digitization of all areas of life" Five years ago, on October 1, 2015, Professor Dr. Dieter Kugelmann took over the office of State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate. Dieter Kugelmann says: "Digitization is progressing worldwide, more and more data is being collected, summarized and linked. The importance of data protection is therefore increasing. Just as there are traffic rules for road traffic, there are also mandatory rules for handling data. As a data protection officer we protect people's freedom; we ensure that they can decide and determine their data. With this in mind, we advise on legislative processes, process the incoming complaints from citizens and, if necessary, sanction data protection violations. Just as it is in our society with regard to occupational safety and health If there has to be environmental protection and compliance with it must be monitored, there must also be data protection; my authority and I take care of it." The state data protection officer, who was elected for eight years by the Rhineland-Palatinate state parliament, emphasizes: "In the past five years, Europeanization and effectiveness the General Data Protection Regulation has had a massive impact on the development of data protection. As the Rhineland-Palatinate authority, we have advised government agencies, companies, associations, clubs and citizens and continue to be the point of contact. The past few years have been very dynamic: In addition to the GDPR, the State Data Protection Act and other state laws relating to data protection have been passed. Judgments of the European Court of Justice such as "Safe Harbor" and "Schrems II" have meant that the data protection authorities in the federal states and at the federal level had to coordinate quickly and did so. It is challenging and very exciting to see how data processing and, accordingly, data protection are evolving in these times. In a complex world, data protection is demanding and sometimes exhausting - but it is urgently needed. Data protection is a mandatory part of the increasing digitization of all areas of life In the coming years, I would like to focus more on questions of data protection with a view to artificial intelligence and facial recognition: As a society, we have to think about rules and guidelines at an early stage. There is a risk that facial recognition systems will be used to create fully automated surveillance profiles."Kugelmann continues: "A second pillar of the LfDI is freedom of information. In our open information society, there must be enforceable rights for citizens to obtain information from public authorities. The state of Rhineland-Palatinate passed a state transparency law early on, so that everyone has and can assert rights against the administration and against the government. The LfDI supports individuals in enforcing information interests vis-à-vis the private sector and public administration. In the coming years, it will be a question of making information rights better known and ensuring that all information that is required by law to be posted is actually made available on the state's transparency platform."Professor Dieter Kugelmann provides further insights into his tenure to date in the current podcast episode The birthday episode - 5 years in office Professor Kugelmann He talks about the main focus of his work and Europe-wide votes, about an "emergency meeting" at Frankfurt Central Station and about a "ray of hope on the horizon".Dieter Kugelmann expresses himself in a short video also about what was particularly important for him in the past few years and what he would like to focus on in the coming years.
                                return
                            



