 

 

The state representative for
privacy and
Freedom of Information

 
P R E S S E M I T T E I

L U N G
 

 

 
 

 

free
Hanseatic city
Bremen

Bremen/Bremerhaven,
March 26, 2021

her third

Plea for the calm of the rule of law in times of digital gold rush mood
 
On the occasion of the publication
Annual report according to the European
The General Data Protection Regulation provides the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
(LfDI) Dr. Imke Sommer states that the main focus of activity is data protection law
Supervisory authority in the state of Bremen in 2020 with the number of complaints and
Consultation volume shifted significantly towards topics in the context of the pandemic.
The LfDI alone received 21 complaints about openly accessible guest lists in restaurants or
even about the fact that the mobile number left by a service person to contact you
had been used. Some data breach reports related to a hacking attack on
a digital version of the guest lists in the catering area was directed. complaints about
that the public order office during quarantine checks provide health data to neighbors
Revealed to neighbors could not be clarified.
Above all, however, the pandemic shaped the consulting area. On the occasion of consultations in
In the employment context, the LfDI learned of data protection violations m
with knowledge
Previous illnesses, with certificates and sick notes in the context of a pandemic. Common themes were
the use of private devices and private telephone numbers in the context of telework and
Digital activity or status recordings that are highly problematic in terms of data protection law.
The numerous requests for advice that the LfDI made with dealing with the
 
  Pandemic
employed administrations related, in addition to accompanying the construction of the
Administrative infrastructure, for example, on the use of corona data for research purposes,
the reporting of negative corona test results, the inadmissibility of passing on corona
Data from the health authorities to the police and the publication of corona case numbers.
Corona scouts and staff for quarantine controls were given data protection regulations by the LfDI
trained. In the school context, for example, the consultations had the digital learning platform,
Video conferencing systems in the school context, iPads for students, use pr
father
Devices for school purposes and the online portal for reading promotion.
Both in the private sector and in the management of the pandemic by the administration
showed that too quickly unfounded hopes in newly developed digitization processes
were set. Frequently presented by short, related to fundamental self-evidence
Questioning that, both legally and technically, there are unnecessary risks for

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Arndtstraße 1, 27570 Bremerhaven
  

 

 

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Fax: 0421 - 496 - 18495 • Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de
 

   

   

   

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

those would have had to be accepted, their personal data, mostly even
 
health data should be processed.
  
The summing up of the state representatives: "Although the digitization push that we are seeing in the
 
experience a pandemic, in principle even an opportunity for the protection of personal data
 
mean. However, digitization is not always done well and can then be particularly easy for
violations are abused. This is evidenced by the fact that the data protection supervisory authorities
in the past year in health, work, school and other areas of life
 
many digital data breaches and many not well thought out in terms of data protection
business ideas were addressed. Here it only helps, the encroaching digital gold rush mood
oppose the rule of law. Otherwise we will not only experience after the pandemic
 
 
Relief at the health risks overcome, but a rude awakening in one
Situation in which digital border crossings have become routine."
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Contact/enquiries:
 

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-18004
 

 

