1(7)

Spotify AB
Org. no: 556703-7485
Regeringsgatan 19
111 53 Stockholm

Diary number:
DI-2020-10541
Date:
2021-03-24

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation - Spotify AB
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority states that Spotify AB has processed
personal data in violation of


article 12.4 of the data protection regulation1 by the company in its response of 8 June
2018 on the appellant's objection to the treatment of 24 May 2018 according to
Article 21 has not clearly stated which information
is processed, that the data is processed with the support of a legitimate interest and
what the legitimate interest is and that the answer did not contain information about
the possibility of submitting a complaint to the supervisory authority and requesting
trial.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority gives Spotify AB a reprimand according to article 58.2 b
data protection regulation.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority (IMY) has started supervision of Spotify AB (Spotify
or the company) due to a complaint. The complaint has been handed over to IMY, i
characteristic of the responsible supervisory authority according to Article 56 of the Data Protection Regulation.
The handover has taken place from the supervisory authority in the country where the complainant has left
filed its complaint (Denmark) in accordance with the regulation's provisions on cooperation
in case of cross-border treatment.

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

The complaint essentially states the following. The appellant previously had an account and a
paid subscription to the company's music service. The appellant has repeatedly requested that
the company must delete his card details. According to the company, the complainant registered via
PayPal and the company therefore do not process the complainant's card details. The appellant
disputes this, as the appellant's son has been denied registration for one
free trial period where the complainant's card details were used, with the justification that
the card has already been used.
Spotify AB has essentially stated the following.

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on
repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
1

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10541
Date: 2021-03-24

2(7)

The complainant has requested deletion of their credit or debit card details. Spotify
however, does not process card details when a user pays via PayPal, such as
the appellant done, but instead processes unique identifiers for the payment cards or
“instrument” (“unique payment instrument identifier”) used by a customer at
registration of free trials. The legal basis for the processing is
legitimate interests. That the appellant wrote that he withdraws his consent can be interpreted
as an objection to the processing. The further processing is not subject to
the right to erasure because Spotify has a strong, legitimate interest to continue
the treatment that outweighs the rights and freedoms of the complainant.
To sign up for a free trial, potential customers must
provide Spotify payment card details that will be used for invoicing when
the free trial period has expired. To prevent abuse of them
free trial periods that the company offers use the company's unique
payment instrument identifier. This means that the same payment instrument cannot
used several times. Without this feature, it would be easy for a customer to
start new free Spotify accounts for additional trials each time their
free trial period expires, by varying information such as email address, and
thereby fraudulently exploiting Spotify. The unique payment instrument identifier is a
alphanumeric chain generated by Spotify's payment processor PayPal. The
enables the unique identification of credit cards, but it does not contain
credit card number or other card details. Spotify can't get through
the payment instrument identifier get access to payment card details via
backwards construction (so-called reverse engineering). This process is PCI compliant
DSS2.
The processing is necessary for Spotify to prevent fraud. This is both
a legitimate interest in Spotify and the company's broad customer base, because the company does not
could continue to offer free trial periods of the company's service if
fraud could not be countered in this way. It is also in the public domain
legitimate interest.
Spotify has responded to the complainant's requests but has not deleted the data since
the right to erasure is not applicable. The company responded on 7 December 2017 to
the appellant's original request of 6 December 2017 and 8 June 2018 at
the appellant's latest request of 24 May 2018 and thus within the deadline i
data protection regulation. Regarding the complainant's letter of 15 March 2018
did the company not interpret it as a request for erasure according to the data protection regulation,
but answered the letter on 4 May 2018. The company has informed in several of these answers
the complainant that the company does not store his payment card details and that the company does not
could delete the payment instrument reference that identifies that his card already has
used to take part in one of the company's offers or services.
Regarding what information was provided to the complainant on 8 June 2018 with
the reason for his objection, Spotify considers that the company responded to the complainant
question by explaining that it does not store any card details but only uses one
algorithm to see if a credit card has been used to take part in a Spotify offer
earlier. If the company had reason to believe that the complainant wanted more details
if these categories of personal data had been provided by the company. When the company's
customer service advisers communicate with users, the company always tries to
provide the information that users ask for in a format that is relevant
PCI DSS stands for Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and is a generally accepted set of guidelines
and routines aimed at optimizing security around the use of credit and debit cards.
2

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10541
Date: 2021-03-24

3(7)

for the users and also as someone who does not know the provisions of
the data protection regulation would understand. Since the appellant neither mentioned
the regulation or asked for the legal basis for the processing, the company went
did not go into legal details in his answer such as the company's balancing of interests. In addition had
the company in its privacy policy communicated to its users that on request
happy to provide more information about the balance of interests that the company has made
to rely on legitimate interest as a legal basis and informed of the possibility
to submit complaints to the regulatory authorities. Furthermore, it should be considered that the case
was started more than five months before the data protection regulation entered into force and that
the only correspondence that took place in the time after was the company's reply two weeks later
then. Since then, the company's customer service advisers have undergone additional training
in how they should answer users in a clear and unambiguous way, which questions should be considered
such as requests according to the data protection regulation and which questions should
forwarded to the company's data protection team and data protection representative. Finally it will
taken into account that the company receives over 11,000 customer service cases daily. Although the company's
customer service receives continuous training in data protection, the human factor can sometimes
lead to a case being answered as a customer service case instead of a response to one
the request according to the data protection regulation referred to in article 12.4, especially when
the user does not mention personal data or the data protection regulation in his
communication with the company.
The proceedings have taken place through an exchange of letters. Against the background that it applies
cross-border treatment, IMY has used the mechanisms for cooperation
and uniformity found in Chapter VII of the Data Protection Regulation. Affected
supervisory authorities have been the data protection authorities of Portugal, Belgium, Cyprus,
Austria, France, Germany, Slovakia, Italy, Spain, Denmark, Norway and
Finland.

Justification of decisions
The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority's assessment
Has the company had the right to continue processing the complainant's data after
appellant objected to the treatment?
According to Article 17.1 c of the data protection regulation, the data subject shall have the right to
personal data controller without undue delay have their personal data deleted and
the personal data controller shall be obliged to delete without undue delay
personal data if the data subject objects to the processing in accordance with article
21.1 and there is no justified reason for the treatment that weighs more heavily. According to article
21.1 the data subject shall, for reasons relating to his or her specific
situation, have the right to object at any time to the processing of
personal data concerning him or her based on Article 6.1 f. The
the personal data controller may no longer process the personal data unless he or she
can demonstrate decisive justified reasons for the treatment that outweigh it
registered interests, rights and freedoms.
The appellant's letter of 24 May 2018 can be understood as an objection to
the treatment under Article 21(1), for reasons relating to his specific situation on
in such a way that it means that the card number cannot be reused to register new ones
free trial periods of the company's services. Because the request had not been handled
before the data protection regulation came into force on 25 May 2018, the company's
handling of the request is assessed according to the data protection regulation, i.e. if

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10541
Date: 2021-03-24

4(7)

the company has demonstrated decisive justified reasons for the treatment that outweigh
the data subject's interests, rights and freedoms.
In order for processing to be based on Article 6.1 f, all three conditions must be met
prescribed therein are fulfilled, namely, firstly, that the
personal data controller or third party has a legitimate interest (legitimate interest),
secondly, that the processing is necessary for purposes relating to the legitimate
the interest (necessary) and thirdly that not the interests of the data subject or
fundamental rights and freedoms weigh more heavily and require the protection of
personal data (balancing of interests).
The company has stated, among other things, that the company's legitimate interest in the processing is
to counter fraud regarding free trial periods. In recital 47
the data protection regulation states that such processing of personal data which is
absolutely necessary to prevent fraud constitutes a legitimate interest of the person concerned
personal data controller. IMY therefore considers that the company has a legitimate interest.
Furthermore, IMY considers that the processing is absolutely necessary for purposes related to it
justified interest. The investigation shows that the information has been minimized
to the extent that it is possible for the company to be able to achieve the purpose relating to it
justified interest.
In the balancing of interests that must be done between the company's legitimate interest and
the complainant's interests, rights and freedoms, IMY notes that the company's rightful
interest weighs heavily. The treatment appears to be something that the appellant is reasonably capable of
expect upon registration a free trial period and not particularly
breach of privacy. The data itself is also not to be considered as
privacy sensitive. In a balanced assessment, IMY believes that the company has shown
decisive legitimate reasons outweighing the appellant's interest in that his
card details can be reused to register new free trials on
the company's services and that his personal data shall not be processed.
IMY considers, against the background of the reasons put forward by the company, that the company has shown
decisive justified reasons that outweigh the appellant's interests, freedoms and
rights. The company has thus been justified in continuing to process the data after
the appellant has objected to the treatment and the appellant has therefore not been entitled to
deletion according to Article 17.1 c of the data protection regulation.
Has the company handled the complainant's requests in a formally correct manner according to
data protection regulation?
According to Article 12.1 of the Data Protection Regulation, the personal data controller must take
appropriate measures to provide to the data subject all communications according to
article 17 and 21 which refers to treatment in a concise, clear and clear, comprehensible and easy way
accessible form, using plain language, According to Article 12.3
data protection regulation, the personal data controller shall on request without unnecessary
delay and in any case no later than one month after receiving the request
provide the registrant with information about the measures taken pursuant to Article
17 and 21. According to Article 12.4, the personal data controller shall, if he does not take
measures at the request of the data subject, without delay and no later than one month after that
having received the request, inform the data subject of the reason for not taking action
taken and on the possibility of submitting a complaint to a regulatory authority and
request legal review. According to recital 59 of the data protection regulation should
personal data controller without undue delay and within one month at the latest

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10541
Date: 2021-03-24

5(7)

obliged to respond to data subjects' requests and provide a justification, if they do not
intends to fulfill such requests.
In the case, only the company's actions during the time that
the data protection regulation has been applicable, i.e. since 25 May 2018. Vid
the assessment of whether the company fulfilled its information obligations towards
however, the appellant through his answer on 8 June 2018 must the answers that the company previously
submitted to the appellant is considered in favor of the company.
The company has brought forward, among other things, that the reason why the company in its response to the complainant
not informed about their legal basis for the processing, their balancing of interests or
the possibility of complaining to regulatory authorities was due to the complainant not being mentioned
personal data or the data protection regulation in their communication with the company and that
the complainant shortly before received information about this through the company's privacy policy
which came into force on 25 May 2018. However, IMY notes that the complainant expressly
stated that it concerned credit card information and for what purposes he meant that
the data may be processed, which can hardly be understood as anything other than as
personal data and references to the data protection regulations. As IMY stated above
and the company also stated itself, the appellant's request must also be understood as one
objection according to article 21, which has thus meant an obligation for the company to
notify the complainant of an individualized decision according to the data protection regulation.
Since the company's decision was negative, the company's response according to reason 59 would have been justified
and according to Article 12.4 contained the reason for this and complaint reference, which it did not
did. What the company stated that information about this appeared from the company's
privacy policy is not enough. This is because it was an individualized one
decision and the individual cannot be expected to take part in such a policy in its entirety in order to
draw conclusions about the type of decision the company thus made, especially when the company
neither indicated the legal basis on which the processing was based nor that the complainant's
objection had been rejected.
Against this background, IMY finds that the company's response of 8 June 2018 was not
sufficiently justified according to Article 12.4 because the company does not in a clear and unambiguous way
has given an account of which data is processed, that the data is processed with the support of
a legitimate interest and what the legitimate interest is and that the answer did not contain
information about the possibility of submitting a complaint to the supervisory authority and
request legal review. Spotify has thereby processed personal data in violation of
Article 12.4 of the Data Protection Regulation.

Choice of intervention
From article 58.2 i and article 83.2 of the data protection regulation, it appears that IMY has
power to impose administrative penalty charges in accordance with Article 83.
Depending on the circumstances of the individual case, administrative
penalty fees are imposed in addition to or instead of the other measures referred to in article
58.2, such as injunctions and prohibitions. Furthermore, it is clear from article 83.2 which
factors to be taken into account when deciding whether administrative penalty charges are to be imposed
and when determining the size of the fee. If it is a minor violation
receives IMY as set out in recital 148 in lieu of imposing a penalty charge
issue a reprimand according to article 58.2 b. Consideration must be given to aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances of the case, such as the nature of the violation, degree of severity
and duration as well as previous violations of relevance.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10541
Date: 2021-03-24

6(7)

In its defense, the company has essentially stated that it is a one-off event
and that the company handles a large amount of customer service matters. Furthermore, since it has
happened the company's customer service advisers underwent further training in how they should
answer users in a clear and unambiguous way, which questions should be considered as
requests according to the data protection regulation and which questions should be forwarded
to the company's data protection team and data protection representative.
In an overall assessment of the circumstances, IMY finds that it is a question of a
such minor infringement in the sense referred to in recital 148 and that Spotify AB
therefore, a reprimand must be given in accordance with Article 58.2 b of the Data Protection Regulation for it
found the violation.
The case is closed.

This decision has been taken by the head of unit Catharina Fernquist after a presentation by
the lawyer Olle Pettersson.
Catharina Fernquist, 2021-03-24 (This is an electronic signature)
Copy to
The data protection officer

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10541
Date: 2021-03-24

7(7)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Agency. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the day you received it
part of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Privacy Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

