1(6)

Spotify AB
Org. no:556703-7485
Regeringsgatan 19
111 53 Stockholm

Our ref.:
DI-2020-10541, IMI no. 75661
Date:
2021-03-24

Supervision under the General Data
Protection Regulation – Spotify AB
Final decision of the Swedish Authority for
Privacy Protection (IMY)
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) finds that Spotify AB has
processed personal data in violation of


Article 12(4) of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)1 by in its reply
of 8 June 2018 to the complainant’s objection to the processing pursuant to
Article 21 of 24 May 2018 having not clearly stated what personal data is
being processed, that the data is processed on the basis of a legitimate
interest and what the legitimate interest is and that the answer has not
contained information about the possibility of lodging a complaint with a
supervisory authority and seeking a judicial remedy.

The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) issues Spotify AB a reprimand in
accordance with Article 58(2)(b) of the GDPR.

Report on the supervisory matter
The Swedish Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY) has initiated supervision regarding
Spotify AB (the company) due to a complaint. The complaint has been submitted to
IMY, in its capacity as responsible supervisory authority pursuant to Article 56 of the
GDPR. The handover has been made from the supervisory authority of the country
where the complainant has lodged their complaint (Denmark) in accordance with the
Regulation’s provisions on cooperation in cross-border processing.

Postal address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Sweden

The complaint is essentially the following. The complaint has previously had an
account and a payment subscription to the company’s music service. The complainant
has several times requested that the company erase his card details. According to the
company, the complainant has registered via PayPal and the company therefore does
not process the complainant’s card details. The complainant questions this because
the complainant’s son has been refused to register for a free trial period where the

Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Telephone:
+46 (8) 657 61 00

1

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with respect to the processing of
personal data and on the free flow of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection
Regulation).

Swedish Authority
for Privacy Protection

Our ref.: DI-2020-10541, IMI no. 75661
Date: 2021-03-24

2(6)

complainant’s card information has been used, on the grounds that the card has
already been used.
Spotify AB has mainly stated the following.
The complainant has requested deletion of his credit or debit card information.
However, Spotify does not process card data when a user pays via PayPal, such as
the complainant, but instead treats unique identifiers for the payment cards or
"instruments" (”unique payment instrument identifiers") used by a customer when
registering free trial periods. The legal basis for the processing is legitimate interests.
That the complainant has written that he withdraws his consent may be interpreted as
an objection to the processing. The continued processing is not subject to the right to
erasure because Spotify has a strong, legitimate interest in continuing the processing
that outweighs the rights and freedoms of the complainant.
To register for a free trial, potential customers must provide Spotify debit card details
that will be used for invoicing once the free trial has expired. To counter the abuse of
the free trials offered by the company, the company uses unique payment instrument
identifiers. This means that the same payment instruments cannot be used several
times. Without this feature, it would be easy for a customer to start new free Spotify
accounts for additional trials each time their free trial expires, by varying tasks such as
email address, and thus fraudulently exploiting Spotify. The unique payment
instrument identifier is an alphanumeric chain generated by Spotify payment processor
PayPal. It allows for the unique identification of credit cards, but it does not contain the
credit card number or other card details. Spotify cannot, through the payment
instrument identifier, access to debit card information via reverse engineering. This
process is compatible with PCI DSS2.
The processing is necessary for Spotify in order to counteract fraud. This is both a
legitimate interest in Spotify and the company’s broad customer base, as the company
could not continue to offer free trials of the company’s service if fraud could not be
counteracted in this way. It is also in the public’s legitimate interest.
Spotify has responded to the complainant’s request but has not deleted the data
because the right to erasure is not applicable. The company responded on 7
December 2017 to the complainant’s original request of 6 December 2017 and 8 June
2018 to the complainant’s most recent request of 24 May 2018 and thus within the
deadline of the GDPR. Regarding the complainant’s letter of 15 March 2018, the
company did not interpret it as a request for deletion under the GDPR, but responded
to the letter on 4 May 2018. In several of these answers, the company has informed
the complainants that the Company does not store his debit card information and that
the company could not erase the payment instrument reference that identifies that his
card has already been used to access one of the company’s offers or services.
Regarding the information provided to the complainant on 8 June 2018 due to his
objection, Spotify believes that the company responded to the complainant’s question
by explaining that it does not store any card information but only uses an algorithm to
see if a credit card has been used to access a Spotify offer earlier. If the company had
had reason to believe that the complainant wanted more details about these
categories of personal data, the company would have provided it. When the
company’s customer service advisors communicate with users, the company always
2

PCI DSS stands for Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and is a widely accepted set of guidelines and
procedures aimed at optimising security around the use of credit and debit cards.

Swedish Authority
for Privacy Protection

Our ref.: DI-2020-10541, IMI no. 75661
Date: 2021-03-24

3(6)

tries to provide the information that users ask for in a format that is relevant to the
users and which also someone who does not know the provisions of the GDPR would
understand. Since the complainant neither mentioned the regulation nor asked for the
legal basis for the processing, the company did not address legal details in its
response such as the company’s balance of interests. In addition, in its privacy policy,
the company had communicated to its users that it would like to provide more
information on the weighing of interests that the Company has made to rely on
legitimate interest as a legal basis and informed of the possibility of filing a complaint
with the supervisory authorities. It should also be taken into account that the matter
was started more than five months before the GDPR came into force and that the only
correspondence that took place in the time after was the company’s response two
weeks thereafter. Since then, the company’s customer service advisors have
undergone further training on how to answer users in a clear and clear manner, which
questions should be regarded as inquiries under the GDPR and what questions should
be forwarded to the company’s data protection team and data protection officer.
Finally, it must be taken into account that the company receives over 11,000 customer
service cases daily. Although the company’s customer service receives continuous
data protection training, the human factor can sometimes lead to a matter being
answered as a customer service case instead of a response to a request under the
GDPR referred to in Article 12(4), especially when the user does not mention personal
data or the GDPR in his communication with the company.
The investigation has been carried out in written form. In the light of cross-border
processing, IMY has used the mechanisms for cooperation and consistency contained
in Chapter VII of the GDPR. The supervisory authorities concerned have been the data
protection authorities in Portugal, Belgium, Cyprus, Austria, France, Germany,
Slovakia, Italy, Spain, Denmark, Norway and Finland.

Justification of the decision
The assessment of the Authority for Privacy Protection (IMY)
Has the company had the right to continue processing the complainant’s data
after the complainant objected to the processing?
According to Article 17(1)(c), the data subject shall have the right to obtain from the
controller the erasure of personal data concerning him or her without undue delay and
the controller shall have the obligation to erase personal data without undue delay
when the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there are
no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing. According to Article 21(1) the data
subject shall have the right to object, on grounds relating to his or her particular
situation, at any time to processing of personal data concerning him or her which is
based on Article 6(1)(f). The controller shall no longer process the personal data
unless the controller demonstrates compelling legitimate grounds for the processing
which override the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject.
The complainant’s email to the company of 24 May 2018 must be understood as an
objection to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1), for reasons related to his specific
situation, being that the card number cannot be reused to register new free trial
periods on the company’s services. Since the objection had not been handled before
the introduction of the GDPR on 25 May 2018, the company’s processing of requests
must be assessed in accordance with the GDPR, i.e. whether the company has

Swedish Authority
for Privacy Protection

Our ref.: DI-2020-10541, IMI no. 75661
Date: 2021-03-24

4(6)

demonstrated compelling legitimate grounds for processing that outweighs the
interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject.
In order for processing to be based on Article 6(1)(f), all three conditions provided
therein must be fulfilled, namely, firstly, that the controller or third party has a legitimate
interest (legitimate interest), secondly that the processing is necessary for purposes of
legitimate interest (necessary) and third that the interests or fundamental rights and
freedoms of the data subject do not weigh heavier and require the protection of
personal data (balance of interest).
Among other things, the company has stated that the company‘s legitimate interest
with the processing is to counteract fraud regarding free trial periods. Recital 47 of the
GDPR states that processing of personal data that is absolutely necessary to prevent
fraud constitutes a legitimate interest in the controller concerned. IMY therefore
considers that the company has a legitimate interest.
Furthermore, IMY believes that processing is absolutely necessary for purposes
relating to legitimate interest. The investigation shows that the data has been
minimised insofar as it is possible for the company to achieve the purpose of the
legitimate interest.
In the weighing of interests to be made between the Company’s legitimate interest and
the interests, rights and freedoms of the complainant, IMY notes that the company’s
legitimate interest weighs heavily. The processing appears as something that the
complainant can reasonably expect when registering a free trial and not particularly
privacy invasive. The personal data in question can neither be considered as sensitive
from a privacy perspective. In a summarized assessment, IMY finds that the company
has demonstrated compelling legitimate grounds that outweigh the complainant’s
interest in the reuse of his card information to register new free trial periods on the
company’s services and that his personal data shall not be processed.
In light of the reasons the company has presented, IMY finds that the company has
demonstrated compelling legitimate grounds that outweigh the complainant’s interests,
freedoms and rights. The Company has thus had the right to continue processing the
data after the complaint has objected to the processing and the complaint has
therefore not been entitled to erasure under Article 17(1)(c) GDPR.
Has the company handled the complainant’s requests in a formally correct
manner under the GDPR?
According to Article 12(1) of the GDPR, the controller shall take appropriate measures
to provide any communication under Article 17 and 21 relating to processing to the
data subject in a concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, using
clear and plain language. Pursuant to Article 12(3) the controller shall provide
information on action taken on a request under Article 17 and 21 to the data subject
without undue delay and in any event within one month of receipt of the request. If the
controller does not take action on the request of the data subject the controller shall
pursuant to According to Article 12(4) inform the data subject without delay and at the
latest within one month of receipt of the request of the reasons for not taking action
and on the possibility of lodging a complaint with a supervisory authority and seeking a
judicial remedy. According to Recital 59 of the GDPR, the controller should be obliged
to respond to requests from the data subject without undue delay and at the latest
within one month and to give reasons where the controller does not intend to comply
with any such requests.

Swedish Authority
for Privacy Protection

Our ref.: DI-2020-10541, IMI no. 75661
Date: 2021-03-24

5(6)

In the present case, the legality of the Spotify’s actions shall only be assessed during
the period when the GDPR has been applicable, i.e. since 25 May 2018. However,
when assessing whether the company has fulfilled its information obligations to the
complainant through its reply on 8 June 2018, the answers that the company
previously submitted to the complainant shall be taken into account for the company’s
benefit.
Spotify has stated, among other things, that the reason why the company in its reply to
the complainant has not informed of its legal basis for the processing, its balancing of
interests or the possibility to complain to supervisory authorities was due to the fact
that the complainant did not mention personal data or the GDPR in his
communications with the company and that the complainant shortly before received
information about this through the company’s privacy policy that came into force on 25
May 2018. However, IMY notes that the complainant expressly stated that his concern
was about credit card information and for what purposes he meant that the data may
be processed, which can hardly be understood as other than personal data and
references to data protection rules. As stated above and as the company itself has
found, the complainant’s request must also be perceived as an objection pursuant to
Article 21, which has thus entailed an obligation for the company to take an
individualised decision to complainant pursuant to the GDPR. Since the company’s
decision was negative, the company should have informed of the reasons for its
decision in accordance with Article 12(4) and included information about the possibility
of lodging a complaint with a supervisory authority and seeking a judicial remedy,
which it did not. What the company has stated that information about this has been
disclosed by the company’s privacy policy is not sufficient. This because the matter
concerns an individualised decision and a data subject cannot be expected to review
such a policy in its entirety to deduce what type of decision the company has made,
especially when the company’s response neither provided the legal basis for which the
processing was based or information that an objection pursuant to the GDPR from the
complainant had been rejected.
Against this background, IMY finds that the company’s response of 8 June 2018 has
not been sufficiently justified pursuant to Article 12(4) because the company has not
clearly stated what personal data is being processed, that the data is processed on the
basis of a legitimate interest and what the legitimate interest is and that the answer
has not contained information about the possibility of lodging a complaint with a
supervisory authority and seeking a judicial remedy. Spotify has thus processed
personal data in violation of Article 12(4) GDPR.

Choice of corrective measure
Articles 58(2) and 83(2) of the GDPR states that IMY has the authority to impose
administrative fines in accordance with Article 83. Depending on the circumstances of
the individual case, administrative fines shall be imposed in addition to or instead of
the other measures referred to in Article 58(2), such as injunctions and prohibitions.
Furthermore, Article 83(2) lists which factors should be taken into account in deciding
whether to impose an administrative fine and on the amount of the fine. If it is a minor
infringement, IMY may, as stated in recital 148 instead of impose an administrative
fine, issue a reprimand pursuant to Article 58(2)(b). Consideration shall be taken to
aggravating and mitigating circumstances in the case, such as the nature of the
infringement, severity and duration as well as previous relevant infringements.

Swedish Authority
for Privacy Protection

Our ref.: DI-2020-10541, IMI no. 75661
Date: 2021-03-24

6(6)

In its defence, the company has mainly stated that it is a one-time occurrence and that
the company handles a large number of customer service matters. Furthermore, since
the company’s customer service advisors have undergone further training on how to
answer users in a clear and clear manner, which questions should be considered as
inquiries under the GDPR and what questions should be forwarded to the company’s
data protection team and data protection officer.
In an overall assessment of the circumstances, IMY finds that the stated infringements
are minor violations in the sense referred to in recital 148 and that Spotify AB therefore
should be issued a reprimand in accordance with Article 58(2) of the GDPR for the
stated infringements.

This decision has been made by Head of Unit Catharina Fernquist after presentation
by legal advisor Olle Pettersson.

Notice. This document is an unofficial translation of the Swedish Authority for Privacy
Protection’s (IMY) decision 2021-03-24, no. DI-2020-10541. Only the Swedish version
of the decision is deemed authentic.

