
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    07/01/2021
                                Completely remote controlled? Five days of “data radio extra”: State data protection officer and consumer advice center start podcast week on artificial intelligence the subject of artificial intelligence (AI). Among other things, the opportunities and risks of AI, language assistants, autonomous driving and the effects on consumption will be highlighted.
"AI and the algorithms behind it have long since arrived in our everyday lives," says Maximilian Heitkamper, Head of Digital and Consumer Law at the consumer advice center. They increasingly penetrate all areas of life. The technology makes big promises, but also sparks fears. "It's high time to take a close look at this important complex of topics from the joint perspective of data protection and consumer protection officers," says Dr. Philipp Richter, moderator and responsible for the “data radio” podcast at the LfDI. In addition to data protection and consumer protection experts, guests from science and politics also have their say in the individual episodes, bringing in their specialist expertise and ensuring insightful, exciting and at the same time entertaining discussions.
Interested parties can find more information about the podcast week at https://www.wmk-rlp.de/aktionsubersicht/. The special series runs as part of the LfDI’s “data radio” podcast and can also be accessed here: https://www.datenschutz.rlp.de/de/themenfelder-themen/online-services/podcast/
The approximately one-hour podcast episodes each cover a wide range of topics:
Episode 1 What does intelligent mean here? Artificial intelligence and where it's already in Start: Monday, July 05, 2021Ulrike von der Lühe (board member of the consumer center)Prof. dr Dieter Kugelmann, State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Episode 2 He doesn't understand me! - Artificial intelligence in voice assistants Start: Tuesday, July 06, 2021Jan Wellmann, Fraunhofer Institute for Digital Media Technology IDMTDr. Julia Gerhards, consumer advice center Rhineland-PalatinateEpisode 3 cars, get the Harry - artificial intelligence in autonomous drivingStart: Wednesday, July 7th, 2021Dr. Manuela Wagner, Research Center for Information Technology (FZI) Oliver Müller, LfDIFolge 4 Consumption fully automatic - artificial intelligence in online trading Start: Thursday, July 08, 2021Pia Schellhammer, Member of the Rhineland-Palatinate State Parliament (Bündnis 90 die Grünen) State Secretary David Profit, Ministry of Family, women, culture and integration Episode 5 A look back and a look ahead - artificial intelligence in everyday life today and tomorrow Start: Friday, July 9th, 2021 Dr. Julia Gerhards, Verbraucherzentrale Rheinland-Pfalz Oliver Müller, LfDIAll five episodes can be listened to free of charge from the respective start date, but they remain available even after the week of media competence.
The links can be found on the pages of the LfDI and the consumer advice center at https://www.datenschutz.rlp.de/de/themenfelder-themen/online-services/podcast/ https://www. Verbraucherzentrale-rlp.de/woche -the-media-literacy-rlp
                                return
                            



