 
 
 
 
 
 
 
711.410.1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

P r e s s e release

 

September 16, 2019

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Media-educational offer of the BlnBDI nominated for the software award TOMMI

 
The media-educational offer www.data-kids.de of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection
and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, is for the German Children's Software Prize TOMMI
nominated.
 
Since 2002, the TOMMI children's software prize has been awarded annually to digital games for children.
First select one of the app, PC and console games submitted for the competition
Main jury made up of media professionals, educational experts and scientists
scientists a pre-selection, taking into account media-educational
points of view. The winner will then be chosen by several thousand children who buy the products in
Test libraries in Germany and Austria, chosen. Despite strong competition
major games manufacturers, the platform www.data-kids.de won the finals of this year's
competition achieved. The playful and cross-media approach has the jurors
convinced. The offer is not limited to pure online materials, but complements it
digital learning with printed activity books that are available at school or at home by the children
can be edited, with play and fun always remaining in the foreground. The price will
awarded on October 18, 2019 at the Frankfurt Book Fair.
 
The Berlin data protection officer has set itself the goal of not just young people,
but to raise children's awareness of the protection of their data as early as possible
wake up. In order to achieve this, in the spring of 2018 the authority launched its unique project
media-pedagogical offer that is aimed at children of primary school age and their parents as well as
appeals to teachers. The materials offered there were again this year
thoroughly put to the test and with the help of feedback from students
completely revised and expanded. With the nomination for the TOMMI 2019, the work shows
now first successes.
 
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
“The Data-Kids offer is particularly important to me because it is the first product of his
Art is aimed at sensitizing children of primary school age to the topic of data protection. I am happy
I really appreciate that the expert jury also recognized the value of this project. Now we wait
looking forward to the children's feedback, because for the evaluation of the products developed for them
are of course the most important experts.”
 
 
The media education offer of the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
can be found at www.data-kids.de.
Information on the TOMMI children's software prize is available at https://www.kindersoftwarepreis.de/.

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues
Office: Cristina Vecchi
Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

