

Bonn/Berlin February 10, 2020


Press release 03/2020


BfDI uses consultation procedures for the first time
On February 10, 2020, the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) will begin its first public consultation. Organizations from civil society, science and other experts should comment on current issues.

The BfDI Professor Ulrich Kelber said: The consultation process is a further step towards even more transparency in my authority. Data protection lives from a broad social discussion. Therefore, I will increasingly use this means of public participation in the future. We want to hear all voices in order to work out constructive proposals together. I call on the experts to make intensive use of this opportunity.
The first consultation procedure of the BfDI deals with the anonymization of personal data under the General Data Protection Regulation. The legal situation with regard to anonymization is controversial. The public consultation is intended to collect assessments of whether and when the anonymization of data constitutes processing within the meaning of data protection law and what legal basis is then required for this. A special focus is placed on the anonymization of data in the field of telecommunications, for example in the case of location data in the mobile network.
The BfDI publishes a paper on this, which is to be supplemented with the statements. The result is intended to give those responsible, especially those in the telecommunications sector, an orientation on how to handle the anonymization of data in a legally secure and data protection-friendly manner.
Statements can be sent to the following address by March 9: konsultation@bfdi.bund.de

Information on the consultation process:
"Anonymization under the GDPR with special consideration of the telecommunications industry" (PDF, 221KB, File is not barrier-free)




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











