
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    04.02.2019
                                45 years of data protection in Rhineland-Palatinate©
                            pixabay.comOn February 4, 1974, the first data protection law of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate came into force. Rhineland-Palatinate was thus the third legislator after Hesse and Sweden to be forward-looking and future-oriented. The General Data Protection Regulation has been in force and effective since 2018, along with the new State Data Protection Act that has been adapted to it. In the meantime, a long way has been covered, during which the requirements for modern data protection have been and continue to be subject to change. "The enormous speed with which digitization in particular is changing the type and scope of data processing confirms the approach of the General Data Protection Regulation to set a regulatory framework that is technology-neutral and open to development in order to take changing requirements into account," says the state representative for the Data protection and freedom of information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelman. "Fundamental data protection principles such as the purpose of data processing, information obligations or the exercise of data subject rights must always be maintained. Even today, the right of data subjects to decide for themselves on the disclosure and use of their personal data applies!"The citizens of the state Rhineland-Palatinate, the economy and the administration, all those responsible and affected are permanently concerned with the dynamic realization of freedom in the digital society. This is exactly what the data protection regulations should offer instructions, assistance and rules for. "The State Data Protection Act is one of these guidelines for the information society," said the State Commissioner. For the public bodies of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate, the State Data Protection Act provides more concrete and specific instructions on how to comply with the principles of data protection. This is more relevant than ever. The state data protection law will show its importance in application and implementation in connection with the data protection basic regulation. The diverse new and old issues must be dealt with. The state data protection officer, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann explains: "Rhineland-Palatinate committed to data protection and its rules at an early stage. We have taken this path in the past and will continue to do so in the future. It is about constructively shaping the digital reality and the digital future to shape."More information:What is data protection about?Information on the General Data Protection Regulation
                                return
                            



