23.03.2021
Penalty for GDPR violation

In February, the National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation at the operator S.C. Medicover S.R.L. and found a violation of the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) lit. b) and para. (2) and (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
As such, the operator S.C. Medicover S.R.L. was penalized for contravention with a fine of 9,749.6 lei (equivalent to 2000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of the transmission by the operator of successive notifications of personal data security violations, which signaled the unauthorized disclosure and unauthorized access to personal data such as: name and surname, CNP, series and no. CI, CI address, mailing address, contact telephone number and e-mail, respectively name and health data, transmitted to natural persons other than the recipients, to the e-mail address or postal address.
Following the investigation, the supervisory authority found that the operator did not implement adequate technical and organizational measures to ensure that any natural person acting under the authority of the operator and who has access to personal data does not process them except at the request of the operator, fact which led to the unauthorized disclosure and unauthorized access to personal data transmitted to natural persons other than the recipients, to the e-mail address or postal address.
Also, the following corrective measures were applied to the operator:

 reviewing and updating the technical and organizational measures implemented as a result of the risk assessment for the rights and freedoms of individuals, including the work procedures related to the protection of personal data, as well as the implementation of measures regarding the periodic training of persons acting under its authority, regarding to their obligations according to the provisions of the RGPD, including with regard to the risks involved in the processing of personal data, depending on the specifics of the activity, including the work procedures related to the protection of personal data and the training of its own staff;
 identifying and implementing measures to ensure that personal data processed are accurate and up-to-date, taking into account the purposes for which they are processed, and that inaccurate ones are deleted or rectified without delay (for example, a mechanism for verifying the validity of the address of email at the time of collection).


Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.