1/13

 Procedure No.: PS/00157/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: The entity COMMUNITY OF OWNERS ***COMMUNITY.1 (*in
hereinafter, the claimant) on January 21, 2020 filed a claim with the
Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is directed against CITRICOS
AND FRUTALES DEL SURESTE, S.L. with CIF B23719743 (hereinafter, the claimed)
for the installation of a video surveillance system in the street ***ADDRESS.1,
***LOCATION.1. The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

“[…] II. The Citricos y Frutales del Sureste company has installed a set of
video surveillance cameras in the common areas of the enclosure, without the installation of
they were approved by agreement of the Board of Owners. And it is not only
has not been approved by the Board, but the proposal to install the cameras has not
has been an item on the agenda of none of the Meetings. Therefore, the community
Owners Building Poseidon, is totally unrelated to the facility that of the
CCTV cameras have been made on the premises.

III. The installation of the cameras without the express consent of the owners who
form the Board of the building has violated the Horizontal Property Law so much, that
establishes in its article 17 that it must be the Board of Owners by majority
qualified person who makes decisions regarding surveillance of any kind, also in
the installation of cameras, such as the Organic Law on the Protection of Character Data
Personal, whose article 6.1 determines that the residents, as affected, must
grant your unequivocal consent for the processing of your personal data.

IV. The video surveillance cameras are located in the common areas of the building,
recording the corridors and the entrance doors to the rooms, as well as in the area
from the community pool and at the entrance of it.

V. There are no signs reporting access to a video-monitored area, which
excludes in turn, all kinds of information about the identity of the person responsible for the
installation, as well as where to go to exercise the rights provided by the regulations
of data protection.

SAW. Since there are workers in the building, it is possible that they in turn are
using the cameras to control the workers who work at the reception, the
cleaning staff, the concierge / s, and the waiters of the beach bar that exists in the
pool area, among others, without complying with the requirements regarding cameras for
business control, given the evident absence of information signs in the areas
guarded.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/13

SAW. Given the arrangement of the cameras, it is possible that images are being captured,
both from the public highway and from the adjoining building. [...]”.

Attach photographs of cameras placed in outdoor community areas.

SECOND: Prior to admitting this claim for processing, the
Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection sent the respondent a request for
information on February 19, 2020.

The respondent filed a reply brief stating succinctly what
Next:

“[…] That CITRICOS Y FRUTALES DEL SURESTE, S.L. carries out the
provision of tourist accommodation services in apartments, focusing said
activity in the so-called APARTAMENTOS ***APARTAMENTOS.1, which is
correspond to the indicated address.

That said apartment building has common areas with a swimming pool, bar,
playgrounds, terrace, dining room, etc. Like any apartment complex.

That, given that the property can be accessed from the outside, and that any
stranger to the property and the company could access the common areas and
that in these areas there are elements that could be of interest to the friends of
alien, it was decided to hire a surveillance service with a company of recognized
prestige.

That said surveillance service is duly installed and warned to the
general public and users and workers of the establishment.

That the entity ***ENTITY.1 is in charge of carrying out the activity of
contracted surveillance, which it executes with its own specialized teams, in the 2
locations chosen by its technical staff, as it deems most suitable for the
provision of the contracted service.

That it is the staff of ***ENTIDAD.1 that has access to the images taken
as a consequence of the execution of the contracted video surveillance service.

That, as regards the time and place of maintenance of the recordings, it is
***ENTIDAD.1 the only one in charge and responsible for said aspects.

That the entity's workers are duly informed of the hiring
of a video surveillance service of common areas, and the installation of cameras,
because it has never been hidden and everything is duly warned.

That, in proof of all this, photographs of advertising posters of the
existence of cameras. […]”

Attach the following documents:

1.

Poster of the company ***ENTIDAD.1 related to alarm signaling

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/13

1.
Informative video surveillance poster with reference to Law 15/1999 and
mentioning that the exercise of rights can be done at securitasdiret.es
[Sic.]

THIRD: The Director of the Spanish Protection Agency agreed to admit
Process the claim on June 1, 2020.

FOURTH: On October 13, 2020, a letter is received from the respondent providing
type of information offered by ***ENTIDAD.1 about different camera models and
storage in the cloud of information depending on each type of model.

Attach the following documents:

1.
A certificate issued by Logalty about the existence of a contract
signed between ***ENTIDAD.1 and A.A.A. (administrator of the claimed entity). Nope
the content of the contract is provided.

Photographs of two installed cameras, as well as control elements of

1.
these. No location reference is provided.

In the letter he refers to the provision of other documents that, however,
have not been sent:

1. Communication to workers.

1. Photographs of informative posters

FIFTH: On November 3, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged infringement
of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), typified in article 83.5 of the aforementioned
rule.

SIXTH: The electronic notification of the initiation agreement was made available to the
claimed on November 4, 2020 through the Notification Service
Electronic and Enabled Electronic Address without the former accessing its content
within 10 calendar days. In accordance with the provisions of article 43.2 of the
LPACAP, the aforementioned notification must be understood as rejected.

SEVENTH: On 04/24/20, allegations are received from the respondent stating the
Next:

“That CITRICOS Y FRUTALES DEL SURESTE, S.L. carries out the service
of tourist accommodation services in apartments, focusing this activity on
called APARTAMENTOS ***APARTAMENTOS.1, which correspond to the
indicated address.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/13

That the entity ***ENTITY.1 is in charge of carrying out the activity of
contracted surveillance, which it executes with its own specialized teams, in the 2
locations chosen by its technical staff, as it deems most suitable for the
provision of the contracted service.

That the entity's workers are duly informed of the hiring
of a video surveillance service of common areas, and the installation of cameras,
because it has never been hidden and everything is duly warned.

That, in proof of all this, photographs of advertising posters of the
existence of cameras.

EIGHTH: On 10/13/20 a new letter of allegations is received from the entity-
CITRICOS Y FRUTALES DEL SURESTE, S.L—stating the following:

“In the event that the CLIENT acquires one of the cameras (hereinafter,
video surveillance system or camera) described in this CONTRACT,
The conditions described in this clause will apply.

That, in proof of all this, the following documentation is provided:

*Photographs of posters announcing the existence of cameras.
*Photographs of the cameras and installed systems and their situation.
*Copy of communication document to workers.
*Contract with Securitas Direct.

NINTH: On 01/04/21, in the testing phase, a request for
information to the security company ***ENTITY.1.

TENTH: On 01/15/21 a reply is received from the security company
***ENTITY.1.

“In relation to this first request, this party wishes to highlight
first of all that ***ENTIDAD.1 is a company that provides installation services
and maintenance of security systems, as well as the operation of power stations
alarm that is subject to private security regulations. Therefore, and
in the event that the location indicated by the Agency in its request is
would have installed a 24x7 video surveillance system with closed circuit television
(CCTV), for the control of access to the building, my client does not provide that typology
video surveillance service.

Apart from this scenario, the images or, where appropriate, videos that are collected through
through the devices, when an alarm has been contracted with capture of
image or video and it is not connected to the alarm receiving center,
They are managed solely and exclusively by the client.

ELEVENTH: On 01/26/21 the Security Company is informed
***ENTITY.1 of the location of the video surveillance cameras.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/13

TWELFTH: On 01/29/21 a letter of allegations is received from the Company
***ENTITY.1.

“Once the facilities located on ***ADDRESS.1 Street have been analyzed, although
none is owned by the establishment Apartamentos ***APARTAMENTOS.1, yes
we have located that, in apartment 17A of the aforementioned street, and within the
indicated urbanization, we have identified a facility, active since 1
September 2020 in the name of Don “B.B.B.”.

In said dwelling there are only indoor devices installed, specifically two
“photo detectors”, which only take photos in the event of an intrusion into the home if the
alarm is connected, and a magnetic device, which detects only opening
of doors and windows (does not take photos or video) when the alarm is armed. By
Therefore, in this installation, ***ENTITY.1 has not installed any video camera,
reiterating that the devices that take pictures and that are part of the
installation are located inside the house.

As already indicated in the previous writing, once the installation of the system
of security in the client's home, the management of the same corresponds to the client,
except at the moment in which the client connects the alarm, in which case, it is
connected to our alarm receiving center in such a way that if an alarm occurs
intrusion into the client's home we receive a signal, as well as the images
associated with it, to carry out the corresponding verification and, in the event that
that an intrusion is confirmed, inform both the client and the
state security forces and bodies.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 01/21/20 through the
which denounces the installation of a video-surveillance camera system without
have the authorization of the Board of Owners "affecting common areas" and
with insufficient information about it.

Second. The entity Cítricos y
Frutales del Southeast, which does not deny having installed the system, although it does not have
with the authorization of the Board of Owners.

Third. That the system has been installed by the security company ***ENTIDAD.1
being the same ones that have access to the images captured by the system.

It provides a sign indicating that the person in charge of the installation is
***ENTIDAD.1 (photo Annex I), as well as another with reference to the repealed LOPD,
indicating the exercise of the right before ***ENTITY.1 (Doc. No. 2 Annex I Written date
04/24/20).

Fourth. The company ***ENTIDAD.1 in relation to the installed cameras states that
following in a letter dated 01/15/21 “Apart from that scenario, the images or,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/13

in your case videos that are collected through the devices, when it has been
contracted an alarm with image or video capture and it is not found
connected to the alarm receiving center, are managed solely and exclusively
for the client".

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD) recognizes each authority of
control, and as established in articles 47 and 48 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, regarding the principles of treatment,
provides that personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")." This article enshrines the principle of data minimization in the treatment
of personal data. It assumes that said treatment is adjusted and proportional to
the purpose to which it is directed, and the processing of data must be restricted
excessive or proceed to suppress them.

The relevance in the processing of the data must occur both in the field of
collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on them.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD, referred to
specifically to "Processing for video surveillance purposes", the processing of
images in public places can only be made -if applicable and prior to the
compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and Bodies of
Security, unless the exception established in the aforementioned article 22 of the
LOPDGDD for individuals or legal entities, public or private, respecting the
conditions required in said article.

On some occasions, the protection of private spaces is only possible if the
cameras are located in spaces such as facades. Sometimes it is also necessary
capture the accesses, doors or entrances, so that, even if the camera is
inside the building, it is impossible not to record a minimum and
essential of the public road, which is inevitably captured.

For this exception on the protection of private spaces to be applicable,
There must be an alternative installation possibility. In these cases, the responsible

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/13

of the treatment carried out through cameras will adapt the use of the installation,
so that the impact on the rights of third parties (passers-by) is the minimum possible.
In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces,
adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- Access to camera images by third parties other than the
responsible for the treatment must be regulated by the existence of a contract.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 and
13 GDPR

Specifically, in accordance with article 22.4 of the LOPDGDD, it must be placed in
video-monitored areas, at least one informative sign located in a place
sufficiently visible, both in open and closed spaces, in which
will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the
possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said precepts. Also, you must
keep available to those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned
GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/13

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. not allowed, for
Therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with the purpose
to intimidate them or affect their privacy without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

In relation to the above, to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to data protection legislation
including the RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” /
“normative”), as well as the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other
purposes, as well as the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both
available in the “Guides and tools” section).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/13

IV

The claim is based on the alleged illegality of the installation, by the
claimed, of a video surveillance system composed of several cameras located
in the common areas of the building located on the street
***ADDRESS 1
(***LOCATION.1).

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided the photographs to which
reference has been made in the first fact of this agreement.

Thus, in the images provided, the existence of several cameras located
in the common elements of the building that would be oriented towards common areas
of the property and can even capture images of neighboring buildings. To this
In this regard, the photographs provided by the respondent in the answers to the
requests for information do not provide information on the field of vision of the
cameras placed. On the other hand, the photograph of the informative poster provided in
The first answer sent by the respondent shows that he did not
is adapted to the RGPD in the manner provided in article 22.4 of the
LOPDGDD.

As far as the responsibility of the treatment is concerned, it is considered that, in accordance
with article 4.7 of the RGPD, which defines as responsible whoever determines the purposes
and means of treatment, the claimed party is the one who holds said condition, since, as
The owner of the video surveillance system is the one who makes the decisions about the
installation of the video surveillance system, without having accredited a delegation in
other persons, individuals or legal entities, in the determination of the ends and means.

v

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to issue a warning -article 58.2 b)-, the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD
-article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

SAW

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding
sanctioning party, it is considered that the exposed facts do not comply with what is established in the
articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, so we are facing the commission of
respective infractions typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which provides the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/13

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

a)
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

a)

the rights of the interested parties under articles 12 to 22; [...]”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, article 72.1 of the
LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. […]

On the other hand, article 74 of the RGPD provides that:

“They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

[…] a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the
right to information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the
Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. [...]”.

The defendant has a video-surveillance camera system that has been installed
in common areas without the mandatory consent of the Community of
owners, carrying out unnecessary data processing of other owners who
have not given their consent in this regard, regardless of the fact that the evidence
provided are considered insufficient to prove her innocence.

The areas captured by the denounced system allow the "treatment of
data” of the neighbors of the property who are intimidated by the system by being
excessive capturing of images, apart from considerations that could be
incardinated in the LPH (vgr. 17.3 LPH).

Furthermore, the orientation angle of the cameras allows
verify an excessive uptake towards areas outside the Community itself, such as
would be the parking area located at the entrance, so it is inferred that the system exceeds
of the main function that at most would be limited to access control to the
establishment that he runs, therefore limiting himself to the potential clients of the
same.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/13

Likewise, the informative poster mentions a regulation currently
repealed, as is the LOPD, only formally mentioning the company
*** ENTITY.1 as data controller, although it is not the main
responsible for the destination or purpose of the processed images, but a mere
installer of the system in question.

7th

In the present case, it is considered that the corresponding sanction to be imposed is that of
administrative fine. In this regard, the fine imposed must be, in each
individual case, effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 83.1 of the RGPD. Therefore, it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance
with the criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of the
Article 76 of the LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD:

The following aggravating circumstance has been taken into account in the initial assessment:

-the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered; (art. 83.2 a) RGPD).

-The intention or negligence in the infringement (article 83.2.b) of the RGPD).

The installed cameras affect the transit area of neighbors of the property that is
are affected in their personal data, being apart from other considerations a
disproportionate treatment by not being limited to the area of use of the establishment
managed hotelier, being therefore controlled in their daily chores with
non-security purposes.

In addition, the following mitigating circumstance has been taken into account:

 It is a small company whose main activity is not linked to the
processing of personal data (article 76.2.b) of the LOPDGDD).

Based on the foregoing, and taking into account that the net amount of turnover
that appears in the last annual accounts presented corresponding to 2017 was
of €939,522.22, it is considered proportional to set the penalty to be imposed in the amount of
TWO THOUSAND EUROS (€2,000) for the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD and THOUSAND
EUROS (€1,000) for the infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, resulting in a total of
THREE THOUSAND EUROS (€3,000).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CITRICOS Y FRUTALES DEL SURESTE, S.L., with CIF
B23719743, for an infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD typified in Article
83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €2,000 (Two thousand euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/13

SECOND: IMPOSE CITRICOS Y FRUTALES DEL SURESTE, S.L., with CIF
B23719743, for an infringement of article 13 of the RGPD typified in Article 83.5
of the RGPD, a fine of €1,000 (one thousand euros).

THIRD: ORDER the entity CITRICOS Y FRUTALES DEL SURESTE, S.L.,
in accordance with article 58.2 RGPD, so that within 1 month from the
notification of this act proceed to:

 Provide the images that are observed with the device in question, indicating
in a location plan the parts that correspond to your property
particular.

 Prove that you keep the information to which it refers available to those affected.

refers to the aforementioned RGPD.

 Prove that you have authorization from the community board of
owners for the installation of video surveillance devices with
orientation towards the outside of the private space.

 Prove, if there is access to the images by third parties other than the
responsible for the treatment, the content of the contract in which
establish the object, the duration, the nature and purpose of the treatment, the
type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the obligations and
rights of the person in charge. The content of the contract must be in accordance with
provided in article 28.3 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity CITRICOS Y FRUTALES
DEL SURESTE, S.L. and REPORT the result of the proceedings to the claimant
COMMUNITY OF OWNERS *** COMMUNITY.1.

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/13

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

