1/5

 N/Ref.: E/00189/2020 - E/01017/2020 – A61VM 101580

RESOLUTION OF FILE OF ACTIONS

Of the actions followed due to the claim filed with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, for alleged violation of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal information and the free circulation of these data (RGPD, hereinafter) and having
based on the following

FACTS

 : Dated November 20, 2019 and entry registration number
FIRST
 
055021/2019, a claim filed by A.A.A.
(hereinafter, the claimant) against the person in charge of the telephone directory ***URL.1,
for an alleged violation of arts. 6 and 17 of the GDPR.

The grounds on which the claimant bases the claim are:

 Publication in the aforementioned web directory of the personal data of the
claimant (name, surnames, telephone and address of your former business, already
closed), without your consent.

 Absence of response to respective suppression requests made on dates
09/25/2019 and 10/28/2019 through the e-mail address indicated on the portal
website, ***EMAIL.1.

The published data is accessible through the URL:

***URL.2.

 : According to your privacy policy at the date of presentation of the
SECOND
 
claim, the person responsible for the processing of personal data carried out
on the aforementioned platform was PLUSIDEAS LTD., established in ***COUNTRY.1.

THIRD: Taking into account the possible cross-border nature of the treatment, with
dated January 30, 2020, the provisional file of the procedure and the
remission of the claim to the control authority of ***COUNTRY.1, the Information
Commissioner's Office (ICO), for being the competent authority to act as
main control, in accordance with the provisions of article 56.1 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: This referral was made, through the "Market Information System
Internal” (IMI).

The control authority of ***COUNTRY.1 agreed to act as the main authority.

In this case, this Agency only acts as the interested control authority.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

FIFTH: On January 1, 2021, ***COUNTRY.1 has ceased to belong to the Union
Union, and, consequently, its supervisory authority, ICO, no longer participates in the
cooperation and coherence mechanism established in Chapter VII of the RGPD. For
its part, the entity PLUSIDEAS LTD. has ceased to be established
principal of the data controller in the European Union, and there is no information
on the existence of a new main establishment of the controller in the Union.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I - Competition

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (GDPR), fully applicable from May 25, 2018,
recognizes each control authority, is competent to resolve this claim the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in accordance with the
article 12.2, sections i) and j) of Royal Decree 428/1993, of March 26, by which
the Statute of the Data Protection Agency and the Provision
transitory first of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of Protection of
Personal data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

II - Internal Market Information System (IMI)

The Internal Market Information System is regulated by the
Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 25
October 2012 (IMI Regulation), and its objective is to promote cooperation
cross-border administrative assistance, mutual assistance between Member States and the
information exchange.

III - Determination of the territorial scope

As specified in article 66 of the LOPDGDD:

"one. Except in the cases referred to in article 64.3 of this organic law,
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection must, prior to the
performance of any other action, including the admission to processing of a
claim or the beginning of preliminary investigation actions, examine its
competition and determine the national or cross-border character, in any of its
modalities, the procedure to be followed.

2. If the Spanish Data Protection Agency considers that it does not have the
condition of main control authority for the processing of the procedure
will send, without further ado, the claim formulated to the main control authority
that it considers competent, so that it is given the appropriate course. The
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will notify this circumstance to whom, in their
case, I would have made the claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

The agreement by which the referral referred to in the previous paragraph is resolved
imply the provisional filing of the procedure, notwithstanding that the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is issued, if appropriate, the resolution to
the one referred to in section 8 of article 60 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV - Main establishment, cross-border treatment and control authority
principal

Article 4.16 of the RGPD defines “main establishment”:

“a) with regard to a data controller with establishments in more
of a Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union, unless the
decisions about the purposes and means of processing are made in another
establishment of the controller in the Union and the latter establishment has the
power to enforce such decisions, in which case the establishment that has
Once such decisions have been made, it will be considered a main establishment;

b) with regard to a data processor with establishments in more than
a Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union or, if it does not have
this, the establishment of the person in charge in the Union in which the main
processing activities in the context of the activities of a treatment facility
processor to the extent that the processor is subject to specific obligations
in accordance with this Regulation”

For its part, article 4.23 of the RGPD considers “cross-border processing”:

“a) the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the activities of
establishments in more than one Member State of a controller or processor
of processing in the Union, if the controller or processor is established in more
of a Member State,

or b) the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the activities of
a single establishment of a controller or processor in the
Union, but which substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect
interested in more than one Member State”

The RGPD provides, in its article 56.1, for cases of processing
cross-border, provided for in its article 4.23), in relation to the competence of the
main supervisory authority, which, without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the
control authority of the main establishment or of the sole establishment of the
responsible or the person in charge of the treatment will be competent to act as
lead supervisory authority for cross-border processing carried out by
said person in charge or person in charge, in accordance with the procedure established in article
60.

In the case examined, as stated, the entity established in ***COUNTRY.1
PLUSIDEAS LTD. was the principal establishment in the European Union of the person responsible
treatment, on the date on which the claim was filed, so the
control authority of this country, ICO, was competent to act as the authority
main control.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

V - Interested control authority

In accordance with the provisions of article 4.22) of the RGPD, it is the Authority of
interested control, the control authority affected by the data processing
personal because:

a.- The controller or processor is established in the territory
of the Member State of that supervisory authority;

b.- The interested parties who reside in the Member State of that authority of
control are substantially affected or are likely to be
substantially affected by the treatment, or

c.- A claim has been filed with that control authority.

In this procedure, they act as "control authority"
interested” the control authorities listed in the fourth fact, in addition to
this Agency, which is the one that has received the claim.

VI – Managers outside the European Union

The art. 3.2 of the RGPD defines its scope as follows with regard to
the treatments of those responsible or in charge that are not established in
the European Union:

“This Regulation applies to the processing of personal data of interested parties
residing in the Union by a person in charge or person in charge not established in the
Union, when the treatment activities are related to:

to)

the offer of goods or services to said interested parties in the Union,
regardless of whether they are required to pay, or

b) the control of their behavior, to the extent that it takes place in the

Union."

VII - Claimed issue and legal reasoning

In this case, it has been submitted to the Spanish Data Protection Agency
a claim for an alleged violation of arts. 6 and 17 of the RGPD,
related to cross-border processing of personal data
made in the telephone directory ***URL.1.

The aforementioned claim was transferred to ICO –the control authority of ***PAÍS.1– by
be competent to act as the main control authority, in accordance with the
provided in article 56.1 of the RGPD. ICO accepted the case, but there is no record
subsequent communication from this authority in relation to it.

Since January 1, 2021, ***COUNTRY.1 has ceased to belong to the Union
Union, and, consequently, its supervisory authority, ICO, no longer participates in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

cooperation and coherence mechanism established in Chapter VII of the RGPD. For
its part, the entity PLUSIDEAS LTD. has ceased to be established
principal of the data controller in the European Union, and there is no information
on the existence of a new main establishment of the controller in the Union.

Consequently, the person responsible has become outside the Union, and,
In this regard, art. 3.2 of the RGPD determines that only this
regulation to treatments whose activities are related to the supply of goods
or services to said interested parties in the Union, or with the control of their
behaviour, to the extent that it takes place in the Union.

The examination of the web portal and the circumstances of the case does not allow us to affirm that the
responsible has offered any good or service to the claimant, with a particular character.
For this reason, this Agency does not consider itself competent to proceed with the
processing of the case and the investigation of the questions that have remained open. In
conclusion, the filing of these proceedings proceeds, as well as the closure of the
proceedings.

In accordance with what was indicated, by the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency

of data,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE this claim, filed in
date November 20, 2019 and entry registration number 055021/2019.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CLAIMANT

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this

The resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed
by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, and in accordance with the
established in arts. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

1103-070820

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

