 

 

 

 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

PRESS RELEASE
 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

February 24, 2022

 Mastodon: State Government moves to Fedivers

and sets up a social media account at the LfDI

 

LfDI PeerTube server soon in test mode

 

The direct and digital exchange with the citizenry is for

many government agencies of great importance, direct and

citizen-oriented communication is always digital these days. That

digital communication is also possible without sacrificing the

personal data of citizens commercial

Platforms for advertising and tracking purposes

(Profiling) to leave, shows the state government since

the year 2020. For more than two years, the

State government of Baden-Württemberg for their digital

Communication the social media platform Mastodon, the

privacy friendly

alternative

to

commercial

platforms.

 

Now the state government is up with its mastodon account

the server of the state commissioner for data protection and

the

Freedom of information moved. About the new one

Mastodon account @RegierungBW@bawu.social

under

https://bawu.social/@RegierungBW is the state government

to achieve in the future.

- 2 -

 

LfDI Stefan Brink:

"Digital communication

is today

of course, also for our administration. in Baden

Württemberg, many government agencies take away the rights of the

Citizens seriously and also use privacy-friendly

Social media channels for their communication. We build for it

bridges

into the privacy-friendly digital world

our Mastodon and soon also with our PeerTube

Offer. I thank the state government for moving on

our server, it shows that data protection and

digitalization

belong together

and

together

function."

 

On the LfDI-Sever https://bawu.social/ public

Set up your own social media account. Already

have their own account here, the Ministry of the Environment, the

Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, the

State center for political education, numerous universities

such as the Stuttgart Media University and the university

Tübingen, as well as municipalities such as the city of Freiburg and as

first cultural institution the Municipal Museums Freiburg. Of the

State representative

even

is

above

the

account

https://bawu.social/@lfdi.

 

The state commissioner Brink is currently building an additional one

PeerTube server and will soon be in the

test run. PeerTube

is a privacy friendly

Alternative to YouTube and therefore a place to show videos

and to share this content on the Internet - and without together

to be "exploited" of his data. Also can via PeerTube

Live streams are offered. In the future, as with the

Mastodon instance of the LfDI public bodies here too

set up your own account.

 

Further information

The microblogging platform Mastodon is a privacy

friendly, decentralized and distributed alternative to Twitter.

Short messages that are called “tweets” on Twitter are called on

- 3 -

Mastodon "Toots" (German: "Tröts"). The maximum length of a

Message is 500 characters. Pictures and videos can also

be shown here. You can connect other users with a

Address the @ sign directly and use hashtags (#) content

tagged. The platform is decentralized - in the

Principle like an e-mail service: everyone can have their own instance

operate or join an existing instance.

A communication is beyond the boundaries of instances

possible.

 

Only public bodies can use the LfDI server

Set up account. Individuals who register via Account

information can be found on the Mastodon info page

selected instances, there are many other instances, e.g. Am

this mastodon instance list. There it is also possible e.g. B.

to search for German language instances.

 

 

