1/6

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00126/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: Don A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated November 21,
2018 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
motivated by the processing of data carried out through cameras of a security system.
video surveillance whose alleged owner is B.B.B. with NIF ***DNI.1 (hereinafter the
claimed) installed at ***ADDRESS.1.

“Installation of a camera in the living room window focusing on the

transit, without having any authorization in this regard” (folio nº 1).

Provide documentary evidence (photographs No. 1, 2 and 3) that prove the installation
of a device, provided with a cable that could enter the interior of the residence of the
denounced.

SECOND: On 11/30/18, the claim was TRANSFERRED to the party
denounced, so that he would have knowledge of the facts and claim the right to
respect, appearing as "Notified" in the computer system of this organization.

THIRD: On 12/26/18, a written statement was received from the party
denounced, "denying the possession of any type of camera", pointing out that
It is a false complaint by the complaining party.

FOURTH: On March 22, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On 04/24/19, this body received a written document from the Attorney Mr.
C.C.C. (ICAM) alleging the following:

“The statement maintained in Fact II is not true, because my
representative has NOT installed any cameras in his zone-facing window
common.

The photographs that are provided otherwise in the previous procedures do not
prove that they have been put by my sponsored, even more so, when it is him,
Mr. B.B.B., the one who already denounced that there were cameras looking at his door and
therefore, it is the complainant who has the burden of proof.

Given that the house in which my client resides is a ground floor, the height of
the living room window is perfectly accessible to anyone standing, so

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

that anyone could have put the camera there to take a picture and show
that HE HAS PLACED IT.

The evidence contained in the Agreement to Start the procedure
sanctioning and that are taken for certain in Basis IV, it is concluded out of
context assuming that it has been my client who has installed the
cameras, but the truth is that there is sufficient evidence to show that it has been
the complainant who has handled such devices at will.

It is said in the same FJ IV that "from the photographs provided it is inferred that the
connection cable has contact inside the home of the accused,
without any logical explanation having been made about it”, but the truth is that in the
photographs in the window is closed and the cable does not point into the house,
but out...

In view of everything stated and all the documentation provided, we understand
that the immediate Archive of the present beginning of the sanctioning procedure proceeds.
As has been stated, the complaint filed is completely false and neither
There is no indication that suggests that this camera has been placed by my
represented, nor that of course, it is still placed there”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On 11/19/18, a claim from the
mentioned claimant asserting that in the property of his ownership there has been
"installed a video-surveillance camera" in the window of his living room facing the
outside without permission.

SECOND: The resident of the town is identified as the main responsible
Don B.B.B., who denies the facts imputed to him.

THIRD: The installation of a small video camera-
surveillance outside the window of the defendant's property, although no
can specify if the connection cable is introduced into the home of the accused.

FOURTH: There is no proof that the device obtained images of a person
identified or identifiable physical

FIFTH: There is a bad relationship between the parties, which has caused various
cross complaints, existing in the background of the same a real estate issue.

SIXTH: There is no evidence that there was an informative poster indicating that it was
of a video-monitored area.

3/6

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of date of entry into
this Agency (11/19/18) through which essence was transferred that in the property
of its ownership has been "installed by a neighbor a video camera-
surveillance” in the window of his living room facing the outside, without having permission
some.

The facts described may affect the content of the article

5c) GDPR. “Personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization").

The party denounced in a pleadings brief (04/24/19) proceeds to deny the
facts, stating that the device in question is not your property, that all
is due to an alleged false complaint by the complaining party.

It should be noted that we are faced with two completely different versions of
the facts, with a common result, no one has installed the camera object of
complaint.

At this point, there are two options, the first a third party alien to the
parties has placed the device in the window (for no reason) and, the second, a
of both parties lies.

The accused party does not provide documentary evidence (photograph with date and
time) that proves that the device in question does not exist as of the date, such as
would have been advisable and as on the other hand it was expressly indicated in the
Home Agreement.

The fact of a previous procedure between the parties is not enough to
distort the facts that are analyzed in this procedure, beyond proving the
bad relationship between them, although now they take on the roles of whistleblower and
denounced.

The evidence provided by the complainant a priori was sufficient to
prove the commission of an alleged administrative infraction, since they prove the
installation of a camera in the window of the accused, oriented in a
disproportionate and without any authorization towards common areas.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

As indicated above, there were two logical options,
considering this body, that both parties have acted with the consequent
good faith that presupposes them, and therefore may have been an "unknown" the
that for some strange reason that will not be analyzed he placed the camera in question, and
then he simply withdrew it.

Article 89.1 d) Law 39/2015 (October 1) provides the following: “The body
instructor will resolve the completion of the procedure, with filing of the proceedings,
without the formulation of the resolution proposal being necessary, when in the
instruction procedure it becomes clear that any of the
following circumstances:

d) When it does not exist or it has not been possible to identify the person or persons

 
responsible or appear exempt from responsibility (...)”.

III

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
    the
when proof of charge accrediting the
 
facts that motivate the imputation or of the intervention in the same of the presumed
offender. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a
concrete and determined fact, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt of the
most favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

5/6

IV

In accordance with the foregoing, having analyzed the allegations and evidence provided, it is
conclude that it is not possible to determine who is responsible for installing the camera in
question, reason why it is appropriate to decree the FILE of this procedure.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, given that both parties have resorted to certain facts
similar to this organism, they are warned about the consequences of
instrumentalize this Agency for the issue that confronts them "the real estate issue" or
any other "personal dispute", and they must be resolved in the instances
timely courts.

The Judgment of the National Court of April 1, 2011, resource 2223/2010, in
its Legal Foundation IV, last paragraph, includes the following: "The importance and
significance of data protection regulations and the relevance of rights
constitutional rights that are at stake, advise them not to put themselves at the service
of particular quarrels that must be resolved in different areas that must have
relevance only in the domestic sphere that is its own and not an area such as the
jurisdictional. The seriousness involved in the exercise of sanctioning power
advises that administrative and jurisdictional mechanisms be put in place
corresponding only when it is assumed that a true
violation of the fundamental right to data protection. Such circumstance does not
concurs in the present case”.

That said, any "new" claim for a security camera issue
video-surveillance in the aforementioned property must be previously reported to
the National Police (Málaga) so that once the appropriate investigations have been carried out
transfer, where appropriate, the facts to this Agency, assuming in its absence the
timely legal consequences.

Finally, it is recommended that the accused party provide documentary evidence
(with date and time) that proves the absence of any device in its window, that
will proceed to incorporate this administrative file, thereby giving
finished the same.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to decree the FILE of this procedure.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don B.B.B. and to the plaintiff
Don A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

