@AEPD_es  
www.aepd.es  
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR DISTANCE  
CONTRACTING OF  
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND ENERGY  
SERVICES  

Make sure to access the website of the company with which you wish to contract the service.  
To do this, check that it is identified with the details of the responsible party, its registered office, and a simple and quick procedure for contact. This information must be available on the website itself (legal notice/privacy policy) in clear and concise language.  

Pay attention to the privacy policy.  
If you use the telephone channel, make sure they provide you with basic information and a reference to how to obtain additional information.  
Find out if your data will be communicated to third companies.  
Find out how they will use your data.  
They must provide you with information about the legal basis that allows the company to use your personal data.  

Remember that to receive commercial communications, there must be an existing commercial relationship and that the offered products must be similar to those contracted.  
Ensure that there is a simple and free procedure for you to oppose their receipt. In other cases, they must request your consent through unchecked boxes. Keep in mind that there are advertising exclusion systems where you can express your wish for your data not to be processed for sending you commercial communications.  

Find out about the criteria the company has for the retention of your data once the contractual relationship has ended.  
Inquire about the procedure to exercise your rights.  
The new regulations have included the right to limit processing, which allows you to oppose the deletion of the provided data, but disables the company from using it. And the right to data portability, which requires that the collected data be sent to a third company when technically possible.  

Use secure passwords based on combinations of numbers, letters, and special characters. It is very useful to remember passwords that are based on combined information that only you know, without using names, birthdays, or other similar easily discoverable information. It is very important to change passwords periodically.  

Log out after completing the process you are performing both on the website and in mobile applications.  
On mobile devices, use additional security measures.  
You can set a time lock and an access password. Many devices have fingerprint authentication or facial recognition that you can enable.  

Remember that the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is the competent authority for claims regarding data protection.  
#ProtectYourData