
Organized by the European Association of Law Students - ELSA Rijeka and the Faculty of Law in Rijeka, on November 24, 2021, an online public discussion entitled "Privacy in the digital age" was held, in which the head of the Personal Data Protection Service Petra Papić from the Agency participated. for the protection of personal data.
The public forum was held as part of the "Human Rights Corridor" project, which has been implemented by ELSA Rijeka for the twelfth year in a row. Every year, members of the association throughout Korza in Rijeka place boards with 30 articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on public lighting poles with the aim of informing the general public about their fundamental rights, and precisely one of the fundamental rights is the protection of privacy.
In order for the public to become familiar with the rights guaranteed by the General Data Protection Regulation, such as the right to be forgotten, but also how to recognize a violation of rights and protect personal data when using the Internet, a Public Forum was organized in which five experts participated. In addition to the mentioned topics, the issue of monitoring information available online and whether the practice in the Republic of Croatia is harmonized as well as the legal regulations were also discussed.
In her presentation on the topic of processing and misuse of personal data online, Mayor Papić explained the rules for safe use of the Internet, that is, how to protect yourself from misuse as efficiently as possible. As the most important advice, she pointed out that it is always necessary to check to whom a person gives their data, but also what scope of data is given and for what purpose, given that the more personal data is available online, the greater the probability of misuse. However, if abuse does occur, it is important to react in a timely manner and inform the competent authorities, that is, the Ministry of Interior and the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. However, in order to compensate for the damage, if it has occurred, it is necessary to request it through a court of law from the processing manager or processor.
Informing citizens about the dangers lurking online is the best prevention because, as Mayor Papić stressed, the Agency is still often contacted by citizens who have provided their personal information to "fraudsters" themselves, most often via social networks in fake prize games where they submitted copies of their personal information. identity cards or credit card information, without thinking about the possible consequences.

Participants and topics at the Public Forum:

Marijan Bračić – director of the Data Privacy department in Business Intelligence

"Software solutions as a means of protecting personal data"

Petra Papić, mag.iur. – Head of the Personal Data Protection Service, AZOP

"Processing and misuse of personal data online"

Luka Petrović, M.Sc. – Department of European Public Law, Faculty of Law in Zagreb

"Right to be forgotten and protection of personal data on the Internet"

Marija Bošković Batarelo, mag.iur. – lawyer, expert in data science and business compliance

"Compliance and the Republic of Croatia"

Prof. Ph.D.Sc. Ivana Kunda – Chair of International and European Private Law, Faculty of Law in Rijeka

"The future of EU regulation and the protection of children online"
Moderator: Ph.D. Matija Miloš, Faculty of Law in Rijeka, Department of Constitutional Law


















