Recommendation 01/2019 on the draft list of the European

Data Protection Supervisor regarding the processing

operations subject to the requirement of a data protection

impact assessment

(Article 39.4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725)

Adopted on 10 July 2019

Adopted

1

Table of contents

1
2

3

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS................................................................................................................ 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4
General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list ................................................. 4
Analysis of the draft list........................................................................................................... 5
CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................................... 7

2.1
2.2

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 70(1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter
“GDPR”),

Having regard to Article 39(4) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of
such  data,  and  repealing  Regulation  (EC)  No  45/2001  and  Decision  No  1247/2002/EC (hereinafter
Regulation 2018/1725),

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018, as revised on 23
November 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the Board is to ensure the consistent application of the Regulation 2016/679
(hereinafter GDPR) throughout the European Economic Area. In accordance with article 70(1)(e) GDPR,
the  Board shall  to  this end examine on  request of one of  its members  any  question  covering  the
application of this Regulation and issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in order to
encourage consistent application of this Regulation. Article 39(6) Regulation 2018/1725 provides that,
prior to its adoption, the European Data Protection Supervisor shall request the EDPB to examine - in
accordance  with  article 70(1)(e)  GDPR - the  draft list  of  processing  operations  subject  to  the
requirement for a data protection impact assessment pursuant to article 39(4) Regulation 2018/1725.
This obligation applies insofar the list refers to processing operations by a controller within the scope
of  article  3(8) Regulation 2018/1725 acting  jointly with one  or more controllers other  than  Union
institutions and bodies. The aim of this recommendation is therefore to be coherent with the approach
previously taken towards draft lists of supervisory authorities (hereinafter SAs). The Board sought to
achieve consistency firstly by requesting SAs to include some types of processing in their lists, secondly
by requesting them to remove some criteria which the Board doesn’t consider as necessarily creating
high  risks  for  data  subjects,  and  finally  by  requesting  them  to  use  some  criteria  in  a  harmonized
manner.

(4) The carrying out of a DPIA is only mandatory for the controller pursuant to Article 39(1) Regulation
2018/1725 where processing is “likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural
persons”. Article 39(3) Regulation 2018/1725 illustrates what is likely to result in a high risk. This is a
non-exhaustive list, which corresponds with the wording of article 35(3) GDPR. The Working Party 29
in  the  Guidelines on  data protection  impact assessment1,  as  endorsed  by the  EDPB2,  has  clarified
criteria that can help to identify when processing operations are subject to the requirement for a DPIA.

1 WP29, Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment and determining whether processing is “likely to
result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679 (WP 248 rev. 01).
2 EDPB, Endorsement 1/2018.

Adopted

3

The Working Party 29 Guidelines WP248 state that in most cases, a data controller can consider that a
processing meeting two criteria would require a DPIA to be carried out, however, in some cases a data
controller can consider that a processing meeting only one of these criteria requires a DPIA.

(5) The lists produced by the European Data Protection Supervisor supports the same objective to
identify processing operations likely to result in a high risk and processing operations, which therefore
require a DPIA. As such, the criteria developed in the Working Party 29 Guidelines are relevant.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

1 SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

The European Data Protection Supervisor has submitted its draft list, in application of Article 39(4)
Regulation 2018/1725, to the EDPB on 18 March 2019 and submitted a revised version on 21 June
2019.

The document submitted by the European Data Protection Supervisor also included a part relating to
Article 39(5) of Regulation 2018/1725. The revised draft document explicitly specifies that the Article
39(5) list included in it applies only to situations in which Union institutions or bodies are joint or sole
controllers.  In particular, the draft Article 39(5) list covers processing operations related to Union
institutions' or bodies' processing for their internal management, undertaken without the involvement
of controllers other than Union institutions and bodies.

Thus, the EDPB notes that this second part of the document falls outside the scope of Article 39(6)
Regulation 2018/1725. This provision determines that the obligation to request a recommendation of
the EDPB applies only to those items that concern processing operations where a controller subject to
Regulation 2018/1725  acts  jointly  with one or more  controllers  that  are  not Union  institutions  or
bodies. Thus, the EDPB will not comment on this part of the draft document.

2 ASSESSMENT

General reasoning of the EDPB regarding the submitted list

2.1
The list submitted to the EDPB is interpreted as further specifying Art 39.1 Regulation 2018/1725,
which will prevail in any case. Thus, the list should not be considered to be exhaustive.

The Board takes note of article 39.10 Regulation 2018/1725, which provides that no DPIA is required
if the specific processing operation or set of operations in question has a legal basis in a legal act
adopted on the basis of the Treaties, and where a data protection impact assessment has already been
carried out as part of a general impact assessment preceding the adoption of that legal act. In this case
the paragraphs 1 to 6 of article 39 shall not apply unless the legal act in question provides otherwise.

This recommendation does not, as a general principle, reflect upon items submitted by the European
Data  Protection  Supervisor,  which  were  deemed  outside the  scope  of  Article  39.6 Regulation
2018/1725. This refers to items that do not concern the processing operation where a controller acts
jointly with one or more controllers that are not Union institutions or bodies. However, since the
European  Data  Protection  Supervisor has  decided  to  adopt  one  list  for  both  kinds  of  processing

Adopted

4

7.

8.

9.

10.

operations,  the  present recommendation does  de  facto  apply  to  both  categories  of  processing
activities.

The recommendation aims to align with the core of processing operations, which the Board requested
all Supervisory Authorities to add to their list, if not already present.

This  means that,  for  a  limited  number of  types  of  processing  operations  that will  be  defined  in  a
harmonised way, the Board recommends the European Data Protection Supervisor to require a DPIA
to be carried out.

When this recommendation remains silent on DPIA list entries submitted, it means that the Board is
not suggesting the European Data Protection Supervisor to take further action.

Finally, the Board recalls that transparency is key for data controllers and data processors. In order to
clarify the entries in the list, the Board recommends including an explicit reference in the lists, for each
type of processing, to the criteria set out in the guidelines to improve transparency.

2.2 Analysis of the draft list
Taking into account that:

11.

a. Article 39 (1) Regulation 2018/1725 requires a DPIA when the processing activity is likely to result
in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons; and

b. Article 39 (3) Regulation 2018/1725 provides a non-exhaustive list of types of processing that
require a DPIA,

the Board issues the following recommendations:
SENSITIVE DATA
The draft list cites ‘sensitive data’ as a criterion as follows “Sensitive data: data revealing ethnic or
racial  origin,  political  opinions,  religious  or  philosophical  beliefs,  trade-union  membership,  genetic
data, biometric data for  uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or sex life or
sexual  orientation,  criminal  convictions  or  offences  and  related  security  measures  or  otherwise
considered sensitive.”

Although the wording is very similar to the DPIA Guidelines of the A29WP WP248rev.01, endorsed by
the  EDPB,  there  is  a  significant  difference.  Where  the  draft  list  uses  the  wording  “or  otherwise
considered sensitive”, the guidelines state “data of a highly personal nature".

The Board notes that the GDPR does not use the term 'sensitive data' in any of the articles, though it
is mentioned in 2 recitals, the term is understood to exclusively designate the categories of data listed
in article 9 and 10 GDPR. In order to avoid confusion, the Board recommends the European Data
Protection Supervisor to amend the wording ‘or otherwise considered sensitive’ and use the exact
wording of the DPIA guidelines.
LARGE SCALE PROCESSING
The Board notes that the European Data Protection Supervisor makes reference to the internal phone
directory of an EU institution as a counterexample of large scale processing. Without prejudice as to
whether a DPIA is indeed required, it is not clear why a phone directory of an EU institution does not
per se fall within the notion of large scale processing, especially since it can potentially include personal

12.

13.

14.

15.

Adopted

5

16.

17.

data of a large number of individuals. The EDPB also reminds that the notion of large also refers to the
proportion of the relevant population, as defined in Guidelines on Data Protection Officers (‘DPOs’),
adopted  in  December  2016,  revised  on  5  April  2017,  and  endorsed  by  the  EDPB. The  Board
recommends the use of a different example.
DATASETS MATCHED OR COMBINED FROM DIFFERENT DATA PROCESSING OPERATIONS
The Board notes that the example used for processing operations that involve datasets matched
or  combined  from  different  data  processing  operations might raise  doubts  regarding  its
lawfulness under Regulation 2018/1725, given the way it is described. Whilst the Board is not in
the position and does not have the competence to assess this lawfulness, it recommends, for the
sake of clarity, the use of a different example.
VULNERABLE DATA SUBJECTS
The  Board notices  that  the European  Data  Protection  Supervisor uses  in  his  decision as  a
counterexample of EU institutions staff vis-a-vis the standard procedures laid down in the Staff
Regulations. The Board recalls that employees are listed as vulnerable data subjects in the DPIA
Guidelines of the A29WP WP248rev.01, endorsed by the EDPB. Though it is arguable that the
power imbalance between an employer and an employee is less acute in the context of ‘standard
procedures’  under  the  relevant  Staff  Regulations, this  cannot  be  considered  always  to  be the
case, especially when the  employees  do  not  have  significant  influence on  the  content of  said
Regulations. In addition, it is not clear which procedures may be considered as non-standard, in
which case a DPIA would potentially be needed, which might result in significant confusion. For
these reasons, the Board recommends that the European Data Protection Supervisor replace the
counterexample given with a different one.

Adopted

6

3 CONCLUSION

18.

The Board invites the European Data Protection Supervisor to make the following changes to its list:









Regarding sensitive data: the Board recommends the European Data Protection Supervisor
to amend its list by modifying the wording “or otherwise considered sensitive” and use the
exact wording of the DPIA guidelines;

Regarding data processed on a large scale: the Board recommends to the European Data
Protection Supervisor to amend its list by using a different counterexample ;

Regarding datasets matched or combined from different data processing operations: the
Board recommends to the European Data Protection Supervisor to amend its list by using
a different example ;

Regarding  vulnerable  data  subjects: the Board  recommends  to  the  European  Data
Protection Supervisor to amend its list by using a different counterexample ;

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

7

