Deliberation 2022-104 of October 20, 2022 National Commission for Computing and Liberties Nature of the deliberation: Other authorization Legal status: In force Date of publication on Légifrance: Tuesday January 24, 2023 Deliberation n° 2022-104 of October 20, 2022 authorizing the AGORIA SANTE consortium composed of the companies Docaposte, AstraZeneca, Impact Healthcare and Takeda to modify an automated processing of personal data for the purpose of setting up a health data warehouse, called "Agoria Health Platform" (Authorization request no. 2225091v1)
The National Commission for Computing and Liberties, Seizure by the companies Docaposte, AstraZeneca, Impact Healthcare and Takeda of a request for modification of the authorization concerning the automated processing of personal data for the purpose of establishing a health data warehouse called Agoria Health Platform; Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation on data protection); Having regard to law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 as amended relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular articles 44 3° and 66; Having regard to deliberation no. 2022-063 of May 23, 2022 authorizing the AGORIA SANTE consortium made up of the companies Docaposte, AstraZeneca and Impact Healthcare to implement automated processing of personal data for the purpose of constitution of a health data warehouse, called Agoria health platform; Considering the file and its supplements; On the proposal of Mrs. Valérie PEUGEOT, commissioner, and after having heard the observations of Mr. Benjamin TOUZANNE, government commissioner, Formulates the following observations: Substantial modification of data controllersTakeda France, a subsidiary of the international pharmaceutical group Takeda, which produces and markets the products mentioned in II of article L. 5311-1 of the public health code, joins the AGORIA SANTE consortium as an associate member. It therefore becomes joint controller of the processing, the purpose of which is to set up a health data warehouse called the Agoria health platform. In accordance with article 26 of the general data protection regulations (RGPD), the joint data controllers must define their respective obligations in a transparent manner. On information and the right of access All information notices must include all the information provided for by the GDPR. With regard to persons who have already received an individual information note when setting up the Agoria Health Platform providing for a transparency portal: They will be informed of the addition of Takeda as joint controller on this transparency portal. whose data are intended to integrate the Agoria health Platform: The information note that will be sent to them must mention all the joint data controllers. Additional comments The other conditions for implementing the Agoria health Platform remain unchanged. Authorize, in accordance with this deliberation, the AGORIA SANTE consortium made up of the companies Docaposte, AstraZeneca, Impact Healthcare and Takeda to implement the treatment mentioned above. The President Marie-Laure DENIS