Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection relating to
to Bill 7652 amending:

1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 establishing the system of
automated control and sanction;

2° the amended law of 14 February 1955 concerning the regulation of
traffic on all public roads

Deliberation n°32/2020 of December 30, 2020

 

 
In accordance with article 57, paragraph 1, letter (c) of regulation n° 2016/679 of April 27, 2016
on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Regulation
General on Data Protection) (hereinafter “the GDPR”), to which Article 7 of the
Law of August 1, 2018 on the organization of the National Commission for the Protection of
data and the general data protection regime, the National Commission for the
data protection (hereinafter referred to as “the National Commission” or “the CNPD”)
“advises, in accordance with the law of the Member State, the national parliament, the government and
other institutions and bodies on legislative and administrative measures relating
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to processing”.
 

By letter dated July 21, 2020, Minister of Mobility and Public Works
informed the National Commission of the preparation of a preliminary draft law in order to adapt the framework
of the amended law of July 25, 2015 creating the control and sanction system
(hereinafter referred to as “the amended law of July 25, 2015”) with a view to setting up
of "red light cameras". Dated August 20, 2020, bill 7652 amending 1° the law
amended of July 25, 2015 creating the automated control and sanction system and
2° the amended law of 14 February 1955 concerning the regulation of traffic on all
public roads, was tabled in the Chamber of Deputies.

 
Not having been directly seized by the Minister, neither at the preliminary draft stage, nor at the
stage of the bill, the CNPD nevertheless wishes to comment on bill 7652, and
as to the interactions of the latter with the legal framework relating to the protection of data at
personal character. This self-request is explained by the fact that the National Commission had
already pronounced on the draft law establishing the system of control and

 

 
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

Relating to the bill amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955

concerning traffic regulations on all public roads

 

1/8

automated sanction and amending the amended law of February 14, 1955 concerning the
traffic regulations on all public roads1.
 
The bill under review is part of the "road safety" action plan (2019-2023) adopted
by the Government including various measures to be implemented by 2023 in order to combat
against road accidents and improve road safety. In this regard, the explanatory memorandum
of the bill explains that “measure 14 of this action plan provides for the strengthening of respect
red lights, in particular through the installation of “red light radars”. These radars are
designed to detect non-compliance with a red light signal systematically and
automatique ".
 
In addition to speeding, as is already the case, and failure to observe a red light, as explained
above, the purpose of the CSA system, in the longer term, is also to note two other
types of traffic violations, namely failure to respect the safety distances between
vehicles, and driving in lanes reserved for other road users.
 
In this context, it is proposed to adapt the legal framework for speed cameras set by the
amended law of 25 July 2015 with a view to setting up radars intended to detect these types
offences.
 
In this regard, the CNPD would like to share its observations on certain provisions
of the bill presenting aspects relating to the protection of personal data
personnel, in particular with regard to the installation of "red light" radars.
 

I.

General comments on the legal framework

 
As a preliminary point, the CNPD notes that the bill proposes to modify article 3 paragraph 2
paragraph 1 of the amended law of July 25, 2015 by providing for an extension of coverage
account of violations of the Highway Code by speed cameras. If these
note for the time being that non-compliance with speed limits, they will also be brought
to be measured: “1. The speed of approaching or departing vehicles, 2. The speed
average number of vehicles between two points, 3. Failure to observe a red light signal, 4. The
distance from the vehicle in front corresponding to a travel time of at least
two seconds, 5. Driving on an emergency lane, part of the roadway
reserved for other users or a closed lane. ".
 
The CNPD welcomes the government's choice to provide a legal basis for the installation of speed cameras
machines with all of these features. She finds that such an approach has

                                                            
1 Opinion of the Commission of the National Commission for Data Protection of 25 February 2015 (document
Parliament 6714/05).
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

Relating to the bill amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955

concerning traffic regulations on all public roads

 

2/8

 
 

also took place in many European countries. For example, in recent years,
France2 and Belgium3 have installed red light cameras near their
roads and developed a legal framework in this regard. The purposes of installing red light cameras
in these countries are common to those of Luxembourg since they also tend to
reduce the driver's feeling of impunity and improve road safety. Light radars
red are generally installed in dense urban environments in order to ensure the protection
users in places frequented by pedestrians, in cases where the action of crossing the
road is particularly dangerous but also and above all in very busy roads.
 

II.

As for the images taken by the red light radars

The CNPD observes that when observing the non-observance of a red light signal, in
depending on where it is installed and the angle of the camera, a radar would be likely not
only to capture the license plate of the vehicle, the photo of the driver, the
passenger, but also those of natural persons traveling on public roads, such as
only pedestrians crossing the road at this location. Depending on the configuration of the premises and the
degree of frequentation of the public space, a radar could therefore capture the images of
faces other than those of the people present in the vehicle.

It is true that article 11, paragraph (3) of the amended law of July 25, 2015 provides that “when
of the exercise of the right of access, anyone other than the driver is masked in the photo
exhibited, unless the photo relates to a vehicle used at the time of the offense in the
part of the apprenticeship or the practical examination with a view to obtaining the driving license
conduct ". However, this article does not mention the presence of third parties on the
images taken by radars, such as possible pedestrians.

The CNPD therefore considers it necessary to automatically mask the images of pedestrians and
of anyone other than the driver who has no connection with the offence. In addition,
the CNPD reiterates its questions, already expressed in its opinion on the draft law on
creation of the automated control and sanction system and modification of the amended law of the
February 14, 1955 concerning the regulation of traffic on all public roads4,
as to the relevance of limiting ourselves to the masking of third parties to the infringement

                                                            
2 In this sense, see the Order of October 13, 2004 creating the automated control system. As of July 1, 2017
701 red light cameras were already deployed. These figures can be found on page
https://www.securite-routiere.gouv.fr/radars/differents-types-de-radars/radars-fixes/radars-de-franchissement,
last accessed 11/18/2020.
3 In this sense, see the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010 relating to the approval, verification and installation of
measuring instruments. Belgium, the 6th state reform in relation to safety-related road equipment
has provided the regions with competences relating to the crossing of red lights and to equip them with
speed cameras. Thus in Flanders, the Decree of the Flemish government of July 10, 2015 and in Wallonia, the Decree of
Walloon Government of June 21, 2018 modify the Royal Decree of October 12, 2010 previously
mentioned.
4 Opinion of the Commission of the National Commission for Data Protection of 25 February 2015 (document
6714/05), p. 4.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

Relating to the bill amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955

concerning traffic regulations on all public roads

 

3/8

 
 

only when exercising the right of access to the images of the driver or the person
presumed financially responsible.

It also considers it necessary to consider automatic masking of people
physical areas around the roads that are taken during image capture, and masking
temporarily of the passengers of the vehicle so that the latter can again be returned
visible during any legal proceedings. Such a mechanism would indeed seem
more in line with the data minimization principle provided for in Article 5 paragraph (1)
letter (c) of the GDPR, which provides that personal data must be “(…)
adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
they are processed (…)”.

 

III.

As for informing the public of the existence of red light cameras

The National Commission notes that the draft law does not mention public information
of the existence of these red light cameras. The CNPD recalls that Article 12 paragraph 1 of
the law of 1 August 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
personal data in criminal matters as well as in matters of internal security
provides for a minimum of information to be provided to data subjects. This article
provides that "The controller shall make available to the data subject at the
minus the following information:

a) The identity and contact details of the controller;
b) The contact details of the data protection officer;
c) The purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended;
d) The right to lodge a complaint with one of the two supervisory authorities referred to in

Articles 39 and 40 and the contact details of the said authority;

e) The existence of the right to request from the data controller the personal data

relating to a data subject”.

Paragraph (3) of the same article, however, provides that "the controller may
delay or limit the provision of information to the data subject pursuant to the
paragraph 2, or not to provide this information, since and for as long as a measure of
this nature constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society,
having regard to the purpose of the processing concerned, and taking due account of the rights
fundamental interests and legitimate interests of the natural person concerned, for:

(a) avoid interfering with official or legal inquiries, research or proceedings;
(b) avoid prejudicing the prevention or detection of criminal offences, the investigation or
prosecution in the matter or the execution of penal sanctions;
c) protect public safety;
(d) protect national security and national defence; Where
(e) protect the rights and freedoms of others”.

 

 
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

Relating to the bill amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955

concerning traffic regulations on all public roads

 

4/8

Given that the installation of automatic speed cameras at red lights concerns a public
much wider just beyond the drivers and passengers on board
of vehicles, the CNPD intends to draw the attention of the authors of the bill to the obligation
information of all persons concerned of the existence of these radars and of the
processing of data concerning them (e.g. signs informing drivers and passengers
of vehicles as well as pedestrians at the locations of speed cameras installed at red lights). If it is considered
to limit or delay this information, the Grand Ducal Police would have to be able to justify
this limitation or delay of the right to information by one of the hypotheses referred to in Article
12 paragraph (3) cited above, or even specify it in the text of the bill under consideration.

 

IV.

As for the test phase of the installation of red light cameras

The National Commission understands that a first red light radar is installed in a very
frequented by Luxembourg City, Place de l’Etoile for a test phase5. The Minister of
Mobility and Public Works also announces the effective installation of said radar towards
December 2020/January 2021 as well as the additional installation of 2 red light cameras at
Hollerich and at the Schlammestee during the year 20216. In this context, the Commission
national considers that it is appropriate to take advantage of the test phase in order to observe whether the installation
of these red light cameras raises questions in terms of data protection (as mentioned
above: do pedestrians appear in the images? are the persons concerned
correctly informed of the presence of such radars, as developed in section 4 below
above ? have any of them been required to exercise their right of access (including
to obtain a copy of the image taken by the radar)? with what result? etc.). This return
experiences can be particularly beneficial and provide some answers to the
issues raised in this review.

 

v.

With regard to the exercise of the right of access to the data of the CSA system by the
persons concerned

With regard to the right of access to data from the CSA system, the CNPD notes that the
legislator did not take into account its position expressed in its opinion previously
mentioned7. Indeed, article 11 paragraph 1 of the amended law of 25 July 2015 provides: “[…]

                                                            
5 RTL, 5 minutes, “The country’s first red light radar is being installed”, article from 07/10/2020
available at the page, https://5minutes.rtl.lu/actu/luxembourg/a/1591684.html, last consulted on
09/12/2020.
6 Luxembourg government press release of 08/06/2020, “Commissioning into service of the
first radar-section in the context of the fight against road insecurity”, press release available on the page
https://gouvernement.lu/fr/actualites/toutes_actualites/communiques/2020/06-juin/08-bausch-radar.html,
last accessed on 09/12/2020.
7 Opinion of the Commission of the National Commission for Data Protection of 25 February 2015 (document
6714/05), p. 4.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

Relating to the bill amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955

concerning traffic regulations on all public roads

 

5/8

 
 

the right to consult the photo concerning the offending vehicle and the personal data
personnel relating to it processed within the framework of the operation of the CSA system”. Section 11
paragraph 2 provides that: "This consultation is done at the Center and under the control of the Police
grand-ducal”. In this regard, the National Commission is once again wondering whether the obligation for
the financially liable person or the person designated as the driver of the
vehicle at the time of the offense to move to the Center located in Bertrange, does not constitute
an unjustified impediment to that person's right of access?

However, this problem arises all the more following the entry into application of the law of 1 August
2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character in criminal matters as well as in matters of national security, including Article 11
provides in its paragraphs (1) and (2) that:

“(1) The controller shall take reasonable steps to provide any information
referred to in Article 12 and carry out any communication relating to the processing relating to Article
10, Articles 13 to 17 and Article 30 to the data subject in a concise manner,
understandable and easily accessible, in clear and simple terms. The information is
provided by any appropriate means, including electronically. In general, the
controller provides the information in the same form as the request

(2) The controller facilitates the exercise of the rights granted to the data subject
by section 10 and sections 13 to 17.”.

Article 13 of the aforementioned law provides that:

“Subject to Article 14, the data subject has the right to obtain from the data controller
processing the confirmation that personal data concerning him are or are not
not processed and, when they are, access to said data as well as the following information:

has)

b)

the purposes of the processing as well as its legal basis;

the categories of personal data concerned;

vs)
the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data
personnel have been communicated, in particular recipients who are established in countries
third parties or international organisations;

where possible, the retention period of the personal data

d)
envisaged or, when this is not possible, the criteria used to determine this duration;

e)
the existence of the right to request from the controller the rectification or
erasure of personal data, or limitation of data processing to
personal character relating to the data subject;

the right to lodge a complaint with one of the two supervisory authorities

f)
authorities referred to in Articles 39 and 40 and the contact details of the said authority;

 

 
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

Relating to the bill amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955

concerning traffic regulations on all public roads

 

6/8

the communication of personal data being processed, as well as

g)
any information available as to their source”.

In this context, since the entry into force of the amended law of July 25, 2015, the
National Commission received numerous requests for information and complaints,
of citizens wondering about the need to have to travel to the Center in Bertrange in order to
view the photo of the offending vehicle, and thus exercise their right of access, which
effectively raises the question of the compatibility of Article 11 of this law with the aforementioned law of
August 1, 2018.

In this regard, public petition no. 1216 "to obtain/send a
copy of the photo taken during an automated traffic control (Radar)", even
if it is true that this petition has not obtained the number of signatures required to be the subject
of public debate.

Consequently, the National Commission reiterates its position expressed in the opinion on the project
law establishing the automated control and sanction system and amending the law
amended on February 14, 1955 concerning traffic regulations on all roads
public. Therefore, it considers it necessary to amend Article 11 paragraph 2 of the amended law
of July 25, 2015 with the aim of allowing "[...] the person financially liable or
the person designated as the driver of the vehicle at the time of the offense to consult the
photo concerning his vehicle, according to his choice, on site at the Center, or to receive
communication of the photo via a prior written request addressed to the Centre”.

 

 

VI.

As for the retention period of the photos

The National Commission wonders whether, on the occasion of the introduction of Bill 7652, it does not
would not be useful to clarify the issue of the retention period of photos from
speed cameras, which it had already raised in its opinion of February 25, 20158?

The retention periods for recorded data are currently provided for in Article 4
of the Grand-Ducal regulation of 7 August 2015 authorizing the creation of a file and the processing of
personal data within the framework of the automated control and sanction system9.

Furthermore, article 2 of this same Grand-Ducal regulation indicates that the file contains
only the data "by violation observed and recorded". Should we understand a contrario
that if there is no violation found, the photos are not saved and automatically
destroyed?

                                                            
8 Opinion of the Commission of the National Commission for Data Protection of 25 February 2015 (document
6714/05), p. 7.
9 Note that this Grand-Ducal regulation still refers to the repealed law of 2 August 2002, having been adopted
before the legislative change introduced by the aforementioned law of August 1, 2018.
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

Relating to the bill amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955

concerning traffic regulations on all public roads

 

7/8

 
 

Otherwise, it would be essential to provide in the Grand-Ducal law or regulation
what happens to the images from the radars, whereas in the eyes of the CNPD, these
should be immediately destroyed in the event that no infringement is
noted, in order to comply with the principle of the limited retention period of the data, provided for
in Article 3 paragraph (1) letter e) of the aforementioned law of 1 August 2018.

 

 
Thus decided in Belvaux on December 30, 2020.
 
The National Data Protection Commission
 
 
 
 
Tine A. Larsen
President
 
 

Thierry Lallemang
Commissioner

Christopher Buschman
Commissioner
 

Marc Lemmer
Commissioner

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Opinion of the National Commission for Data Protection

 

Relating to the bill amending 1° the amended law of 25 July 2015 creating the
automated control and sanction system; 2° the amended law of 14 February 1955

concerning traffic regulations on all public roads

 

8/8

