1/10

 File No.: PS/00241/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The Superior Police Headquarters of Catalonia, dated February 4,
2021, sent the Notification Act of an alleged violation of the regulations of
data protection to the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The following is indicated in the letter of remission of the Minutes, in relation to the matter of
Data Protection:

“Organic Law 2/1986, of March 13, on Security Forces and Bodies, in its
Article 11.1.a) requires the agents of the authority to "ensure compliance with the
Laws and general provisions, executing the orders received from the Authorities.
des, within the scope of their respective competences”

Within the framework of the functions related to documentation of foreigners, as well as
that for the issuance of the national identity document, and as it happens in di-
various areas of public administration, it is necessary to request a
appointment for the materialization of the different procedures, which is obtained free of charge
through the website https://sede.administracionespublicas.gob.es/.

On this website you can get an appointment, anywhere in the national territory,
for the issuance/renewal of documents, collection of identity cards from ex-
foreigners (TIE), asylum applications, invitation letters, fingerprinting for the experience
issuance of cards, certificates of registration of citizens of the European Union, as well as
for another series of administrative procedures.

The fact of the suspension of administrative deadlines due to the declaration of the
state of alarm throughout the national territory derived from the pandemic caused
by Covid-19 added to the fact that, during the current year 2020, they have been responsible for
renewal of their documents to foreign citizens who availed themselves of the pro-
process of regularization of their administrative situation that was implemented in the year
2015, has resulted in a situation of congestion in police services
related to the materialization of different procedures and files in matters of
immigration, which have overwhelmed the capacity of the immigration offices of the Police.
National Society in the province of Barcelona which have had to be reinforced, in
As far as personal and technical means are concerned, in order to respond to the strong
commands experienced in such a short space of time.

In this context, the Unit against Immigration Networks and Falsehoods attached to
the Provincial Immigration and Borders Brigade of Barcelona of the Superior Headquarters
Police of Catalonia has detected, as a result of receiving multiple claims

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

complaints and complaints from users as well as agencies and law firms related to
ned with the documentary procedures of foreigners, that this saturation, in addition to
for the reasons stated, is also motivated by the practices that are carried out
responsible for various establishments open to the public, mainly
booths, and/or individuals who advertise themselves to obtain appointments prior to
exchange of different economic amounts and that, to achieve greater profit,
saturate the computing platform in a way that causes users to have
very difficult to obtain a free appointment with the administration and they are forced
to require their services.

By going to these places, users have been forced to provide their personal data.
documents, both in writing and by providing a copy of their identification documentation.
goes, to the employees or people who offer this service so that, with said data,
can reserve an appointment with the administration, since said appointments are nominated.
and it is not possible to appear at the police documentation offices with justification.
appointments that do not correspond to the person who is going to carry out the requested procedure.
do.

This transfer of your personal data is made without any guarantee or identification
of the person in charge of the treatment of the same, as well as without informing or obtaining the
consent of the users in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 3/2018,
Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights, and the Rule-
(EU) 2016/679, on your rights of access to your personal data, rectification
suppression, deletion or limitation of its treatment incurring for it, in the opinion of this Unit
police authority, in a minor infringement of article 74.a of the aforementioned L.O. 3/2018, without prejudice
that with these behaviors they may also be infringing some other of the
precepts of the L.O. 3/2018.

Based on all of the above, on 01/14/2021, by police officers
assigned to this Unit, an administrative inspection was carried out in the call center called
mine "A.A.A.", located at ***ADDRESS.1 (Barcelona), in which the existence of
possession of numerous client files (handwritten papers, copies of documents,
tion, NIE prior appointment receipts), which were stored in said establishment
with the supposed purpose of obtaining prior appointments to carry out different
procedures, extending in the place the mandatory inspection certificate, a copy of which
attached to this letter.

Inside the establishment, a precautionary intervention was carried out on 6 documents
original documents (DNI, Identity Card and TIE) belonging to third parties, with the
purpose of carrying out the corresponding police procedures with the holders of that
documentation.

Once the corresponding procedures had been carried out, the citation and post-
taking statements from various people whose data appears in the documentation
intervened, which have expressed that they were not informed or provided con-
express or implied sentiment regarding the provisions of article 6.1.a
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27
2016, by providing your personal data to those in charge of the establishment for the
obtaining an appointment.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

Based on the foregoing, in the opinion of the interveners, the owner of the establishment, both
personally or through your employees, you would be infringing one or more
rio precepts of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and Guarantee of Digital Rights, as well as Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data
Therefore, on 02/03/2021, previously mentioned, he appeared in these offices.
dences, the owner of the establishment called B.B.B. with NIE ***NIE.1.”

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is transferred
claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
digital data (hereinafter, LOPDGDD). The request for information on the
many statements were received, on March 15, 2021, as recorded
in the Notice of Receipt issued by the Post Office, without any reply having been received.
na.

THIRD: The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed to admi-
process the claim filed by the Superior Police Headquarters of Catalonia
on 05/17/2021.

FOURTH: On 06/17/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: Notified of the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure, the
claimed, by means of a letter dated 09/07/2021, made allegations to the initiation
file, the content of which was already indicated in the draft resolution proposal.

SIXTH: On 09/22/2021, a resolution proposal was formulated in which
proposed to direct a warning to the defendant, for the violation of article 13 of the
RGPD, since it collects data from natural persons who come to its booths to
request appointments for administrative procedures, without providing the information required by the aforementioned
precept.

In addition, in accordance with article 58.2 of the RGPD, the claimed party was ordered to adopt
the necessary measures to make their clients aware of the matters that
are listed in the aforementioned article 13 of the GDPR.

SEVENTH: On 10/26/2021, allegations were submitted by the respondent to the
resolution proposal, providing a document of "Contractual clauses for
deals with data” that it will provide to its clients so that they can sign it and thus grant their
consent to the processing of your personal data. However, it does not cover
all the issues required by article 13 of the RGPD, since it only refers to the
object of the treatment, the duration and the obligations of the person in charge of the treatment. In
Specifically, it indicates the following:

"1. PURPOSE OF THE DATA PROCESSOR

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

Through these clauses, B.B.B. with ***NIE.1, in charge of
treatment, to treat on behalf of ……… with document number of
identity………, data controller, personal data
necessary to provide the service of requesting previous appointments for procedures of
……………

Documentation presented by the data controller.

- NIE
- PASSPORT
-
- OTHER IDENTITY DOCUMENTS

TAR

2. DURATION

This agreement has a maximum duration of 2 weeks. Once the
this contract, the person in charge of the treatment must delete/return the data
and delete any copy in your possession.

3. OBLIGATIONS OF THE DATA PROCESSOR

The person in charge of the treatment and all its personnel are obliged to:

-

- Use the personal data object of treatment, which is collected for its
inclusion, only for the purpose of this assignment. In no case can
use the data for their own purposes.
Process the data in accordance with the instructions of the data controller.
treatment. If the person in charge of the treatment considers that any of the
instructions violates the RGPD or any other provision regarding
data protection of the Union or of the Member States, the person in charge
immediately inform the person in charge.

- Do not communicate the data to personal third parties, unless you have the
express authorization of the data controller, in the cases
legally admissible.

- Outsourcing. Do not subcontract any of the services that form
part of the object of this contract that involves the processing of data
personal, except for ancillary and public services necessary for the normal
performance of custom services.

- Maintain the duty of secrecy regarding personal data to loa
that you have had access by virtue of this assignment, even after
to finish your object.

- Assist the data controller in responding to the exercise of the
rights of: access, rectification, deletion and opposition; limitation of
treatment. The data processor must resolve, on behalf of the
responsible, and within the established period, the requests to exercise
rights mentioned above.

- Right to information: The data processor, at the time of the
data collection, you must provide information regarding the processing of
data to be made. The wording and the format in which the
information must be agreed with the person in charge before the start of the
data Collect.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

- Make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to
demonstrate compliance with their obligations, as well as to carry out
audits or inspections.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The respondent collects data from the natural persons who come to his
booth to request an appointment for administrative procedures, without providing the precise information to
interested parties in accordance with current regulations on the protection of
personal information.

SECOND: It is manifested by the claimed that the clients have granted the
consent to the processing of your personal data, as it is necessary to
You can make an appointment on your behalf.

THIRD: Despite the allegations of the respondent in response to the initiation agreement,
it is verified that it does not provide evidence proving that prior to the
treatment informs the natural persons who come to its call center of all the
matters listed in article 13 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: The respondent in response to the proposed resolution has provided a
document entitled "Contractual clauses for data processing" with the purpose of
that the client can grant his consent for the treatment of his data
personal data, but without fully complying with the current regulations on
of data protection.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

Article 4 of the GDPR, under the heading "Definitions", provides that:

“For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

1) "personal data": any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be deemed to be any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number,
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of the identity
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) “processing”: any operation or set of operations carried out on
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring,
conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,
communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of enabling of
access, collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction;”

Therefore, in accordance with these definitions, the collection of personal data
personal on the occasion of the request for an appointment to carry out procedures
administrative constitutes a treatment of data, for which the person in charge
of the treatment must comply with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD,
providing the interested parties with all the information indicated in said precept.

In relation to this matter, it is observed that the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data is available to citizens, the Guide for the fulfillment of duty
to inform (https://www.aepd.es/media/guias/guia-model-clausula-informativa.pdf) and,
in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the free tool
Facilitates (https://www.aepd.es/herramientas/facilita.html).

III

Article 13 of the RGPD, a precept that determines the information that must be
provided to the interested party at the time of collecting their data, indicates that:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.
tant;

b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests
swindles of the person in charge or of a third party;

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision of adequacy
Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in articles
46 or 47 or article 49, section 1, second paragraph, reference to the adequate guarantees
adequate or appropriate and the means to obtain a copy of them or the fact of
that have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller
will provide the interested party, at the time the personal data is obtained,
them, the following information necessary to guarantee fair data processing and
transparent:

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when this is not possible,
ble, the criteria used to determine this term;
b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in any
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on consent.
lien prior to withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a re-
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not providing
tar such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information
on the applied logic, as well as the importance and the foreseen consequences
of said treatment for the interested party.
3. When the data controller plans the further processing of personal data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, will provide the
received, prior to such further processing, information about that other purpose and
any additional relevant information pursuant to paragraph 2.
4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent
measure in which the interested party already has the information.”

For its part, article 11 of the LOPDGDD, provides the following:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the data controller
ment may comply with the duty of information established in article 13
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to which
refers to the following section and indicating an electronic address or other means
that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Re-
regulation (EU) 2016/679.

If the data obtained from the affected person were to be processed for the elaboration of
them, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this case, the
concerned shall be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of decisions
automated individuals that produce legal effects on him or affect him significantly.
similarly, when this right concurs in accordance with the pre-
seen in article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

a) (…)

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;

c) (...)

d) order the person responsible or in charge of treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

(...)

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular".

Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD establishes that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22;”

In turn, article 72.1 h) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

“They are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this organic law.”

v

In this case, it is taken into account that the respondent collects personal data from the
individuals who come to your call center to request an appointment for administrative procedures,
without providing them, prior to their collection, all the information regarding
of data protection provided for in article 13 of the RGPD.

This Agency has verified that the respondent has proceeded to provide a document
of "Contractual clauses for data processing". However, the provided template
it is incomplete since it does not include all the issues indicated in article 13
of the RGPD, indicated in the legal basis III. Specifically, the defendant, in his
condition of data controller, is also required to report the
identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of his representative, of
the legal basis of the treatment. Nor does it inform about the right to portability of data.
data, nor how the interested party can materially exercise the rights that are
listed in the document; or the right to file a claim with the
controlling authority.

Thus, in accordance with the facts exposed, we are faced with a
infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, by the claimed party.

SAW

In accordance with article 58.2 d), for the commission of this infraction it is appropriate
address a warning when collecting personal data from customers and
consider that the administrative fine that could be levied in accordance with the provisions of
Article 83.5 b) of the RGPD would constitute a disproportionate burden for the
claimed, since there is no record of the commission of any previous infringement in terms of
Data Protection.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, in the
resolution is required to the claimed, as responsible for the treatment, the adequacy
of the information offered to users whose personal data is collected from the
themselves to the requirements contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD, as well as the
provision of supporting evidence of compliance with the requirements.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: REQUIRE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, under the provisions of the
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten business days from this act
of notification accredits before this body the adoption of measures to facilitate all
the information to the people whose personal data it collects, in accordance with the provisions of
Article 13 of the GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-26102021

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

