 

Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under 

Regulation 2016/679 

 

Adopted on 25 May 2018 

 

 
 

 

1 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Contents 
1. GENERAL .............................................................................................................................................. 3 

2. SPECIFIC INTERPRETATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE 49 ........................................................ 6 

2.1 The data subject has explicitly consented to the proposed transfer, after having been informed 
of the possible risks of such transfers for the data subject due to the absence of an adequacy 
decision and appropriate safeguards - Article (49 (1) (a)) .................................................................. 6 

2.1.1 Consent must be explicit ........................................................................................................ 6 

2.1.2 Consent must be specific for the particular data transfer/set of transfers ........................... 7 

2.1.3 Consent must be informed  particularly as to the possible risks of the transfer ................... 7 

2.2 Transfer necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the 
controller or for the implementation of precontractual measures taken at the data subject’s 
request - (49 (1) (b)) ............................................................................................................................ 8 

2.3 Transfer necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract concluded in the interest of 
the data subject between the controller and another natural or legal person - (49 (1) (c)) .............. 9 

2.4 Transfer is necessary for important reasons of public interest - (49 (1) (d)) .............................. 10 

2.5 Transfer is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims - (49 (1) (e)) .. 11 

2.6 Transfer necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of other 
persons, where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving consent – (49 (1) (f)) .. 12 

2.7. Transfer made from a public register - (49 (1) (g) and 49 (2)) ................................................... 13 

2.8. Compelling legitimate interests – (49 (1) § 2) ............................................................................ 14 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 

 

Having regard to Article 70 (1j) and (1e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament 
and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing 
of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, 

 

HAS ADOPTED FOLLOWING GUIDELINES: 

 

1. GENERAL   
This  document  seeks  to  provide  guidance  as  to  the  application  of  Article  49  of  the  General  Data 
Protection  Regulation  (GDPR)1  on  derogations  in  the  context  of  transfers  of  personal  data  to  third 
countries. 

The  document  builds  on  the  previous  work2  done  by  the  Working  Party  of  EU  Data  Protection 
Authorities established under Article 29 of the Data Protection Directive (the WP29) which is taken 
over  by  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  regarding  central  questions  raised  by  the 
application of derogations in the context of transfers of personal data to third countries. This document 
will  be  reviewed  and  if  necessary  updated,  based  on  the  practical  experience  gained  through  the 
application of the GDPR.   

When  applying  Article  49  one  must  bear  in  mind  that  according  to  Article  44  the  data  exporter 
transferring  personal  data  to  third  countries  or  international  organizations  must  also  meet  the 
conditions of the other provisions of the GDPR. Each processing activity must comply with the relevant 
data protection provisions, in particular with Articles 5 and 6. Hence, a two-step test must be applied: 
first, a legal basis must apply to the data processing as such together with all relevant provisions of the 
GDPR; and as a second step, the provisions of Chapter V must be complied with.  

Article 49 (1) states that in the absence of an adequacy decision or of appropriate safeguards, a transfer 
or a set of transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organization shall take place 
only under certain conditions. At the same time, Article 44 requires all provisions in Chapter V to be 
applied in such a way as to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed by the 
GDPR is not undermined. This also implies that recourse to the derogations of Article 49 should never 
lead to a situation where fundamental rights might be breached.3    

The WP29, as predecessor of the EDPB, has long advocated as best practice a layered approach4 to 
transfers of considering first whether the third country provides an adequate level of protection and 
ensuring that the exported data will be safeguarded in the third country.  If the level of protection is 
not adequate in light of all the circumstances, the data exporter should consider providing adequate 

                                                           
1 REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the 
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such 
data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). 
2 Article 29 Working Party, Working Document on a common interpretation of Article 26(1) of Directive 95/46/EC 
of 24 October 1995, November 25,2005 (WP114)  
3Article 29 Working Party, WP 114, p.9, and Article 29 Working Party Working Document on surveillance of 
electronic communications for intelligence and national security purposes (WP228), p.39. 
4 Article 29 Working Party, WP114, p.9 

3 

 

safeguards. Hence, data exporters should first endeavor possibilities to frame the transfer with one of 
the mechanisms included in Articles 45 and 46 GDPR, and only in their absence use the derogations 
provided in Article 49 (1). 

Therefore, derogations under Article 49 are exemptions from the general principle that personal data 
may only be transferred to third countries if an adequate level of protection is provided for in the third 
country or if appropriate safeguards have been adduced and the data subjects enjoy enforceable and 
effective rights in order to continue to benefit from their fundamental rights and safeguards.5 Due to 
this fact and in accordance with the principles inherent in European law,6  the derogations must be 
interpreted restrictively so that the exception does not become the rule.7 This is also supported by the 
wording of the title of Article 49 which states that derogations are to be used for specific situations 
(“Derogations for specific situations”).  

When  considering transferring  personal  data  to  third  countries  or  international  organizations,  data 
exporters should therefore favour solutions that provide data subjects with a guarantee that they will 
continue to benefit from the fundamental rights and safeguards to which they are entitled as regards 
processing of their data once this data has been transferred. As derogations do not provide adequate 
protection or appropriate safeguards for the personal data transferred and as transfers based on a 
derogation are not required to have any kind of prior authorisation from the supervisory authorities, 
transferring personal data to third countries on the basis of derogations leads to increased risks for the 
rights and freedoms of the data subjects concerned.  

Data exporters should also be aware that, in the absence of an adequacy decision, Union or Member 
State law may, for important reasons of public interest, expressly limit transfers of specific categories 
of personal data to a third country or an international organization (Article 49 (5)).  

Occasional and not repetitive transfers  

The EDPB notes that the term “occasional” is used in recital 111 and the term “not repetitive” is used 
in the “compelling legitimate interests” derogation under Article 49 par. 1 §2. These terms indicate 
that such transfers may happen more than once, but not regularly, and would occur outside the regular 
course  of  actions,  for  example,  under  random,  unknown  circumstances  and  within  arbitrary  time 
intervals. For example, a data transfer that occurs regularly within a stable relationship between the 
data exporter and a certain data importer can basically be deemed as systematic and repeated and 
can  therefore  not  be  considered  occasional  or  not-repetitive.  Besides,  a  transfer  will  for  example 
generally be considered to be non-occasional or repetitive when the data importer is granted direct 
access to a database (e.g. via an interface to an IT-application) on a general basis.  

Recital 111 differentiates among the derogations by expressly stating that the “contract” and the “legal 
claims” derogations (Article 49 (1) subpar. 1 (b), (c) and (e)) shall be limited to “occasional” transfers, 

                                                           
5 Recital 114  
6 Article 29 Working Party, WP114, p.7 
7 See already Article 29 Working Party, WP114, pg. 7. The European Court of Justice repeatedly underlined that 
“the protection of the fundamental right to respect for private life at EU level requires that derogations from and 
limitations on the protection of personal data should apply only in so far as is strictly necessary” (judgments of 
16 December 2008, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi and Satamedia, C 73/07, paragraph 56; of 9 November 2010, 
Volker und Markus Schecke and Eifert, C 92/09 and C 93/09, paragraph 77; the Digital Rights judgment, paragraph 
52, and of 6 October 2015, Schrems, C 362/14, paragraph 92, and of 21 December 2016, Tele2 Sverige AB, C 
203/15, paragraph 96). See also report on the Additional Protocol to Convention 108 on the control authorities 
and cross border flows of data, Article 2(2) (a), p.6 accessible at https://www.coe.int/en/web/conventions/full-
list/-/conventions/treaty/181.1) 

4 

 

while such limitation is absent from the “explicit consent derogation”, the “important reasons of public 
interest derogation”, the “vital interests derogation” and the “register derogation” pursuant to Article 
49 (1) subpar. 1 (a), (d), (f) and, respectively, (g).  

Nonetheless, it has to be highlighted that even those derogations which are not expressly limited to 
“occasional” or “not repetitive” transfers have to be interpreted in a way which does not contradict 
the very nature of the derogations as being exceptions from the rule that personal data may not be 
transferred to a third country unless the country provides for an adequate level of data protection or, 
alternatively, appropriate safeguards are put in place.8  

Necessity test 

One  overarching  condition  for  the  use  of  several  derogations  is  that  the  data  transfer  has  to  be 
“necessary” for a certain purpose. The necessity test should be applied to assess the possible use of 
the derogations of Articles 49 (1) (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f). This test requires an evaluation by the data 
exporter in the EU of whether a transfer of personal data can be considered necessary for the specific 
purpose of the derogation to be used. For more information on the specific application of the necessity 
test in each of the concerned derogations, please refer to the relevant sections below.  

Article 48 in relation to derogations  

The  GDPR  introduces  a  new  provision  in  Article  48  that  needs  to  be  taken  into  account  when 
considering  transfers  of  personal  data.  Article  48  and  the  corresponding  recital  115  provide  that 
decisions from third country authorities, courts or tribunals are not in themselves legitimate grounds 
for data transfers to third countries. Therefore, a transfer in response to a decision from third country 
authorities is in any case only lawful, if in line with the conditions set out in Chapter V.9   

In  situations  where  there  is  an  international  agreement,  such  as  a  mutual  legal  assistance  treaty 
(MLAT), EU companies should generally refuse direct requests and refer the requesting third country 
authority to existing MLAT or agreement.  
 
This understanding also closely follows Article 44, which sets an overarching principle applying to all 
provisions of Chapter V, in order to ensure that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed 
by the GDPR is not undermined. 

 

 

                                                           
 
9See Recital 115 sentence 4  

 

5 

2. SPECIFIC INTERPRETATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE 49  

2.1 The data subject has explicitly consented to the proposed transfer, after having 
been informed of the possible risks of such transfers for the data subject due to the 
absence of an adequacy decision and appropriate safeguards - Article (49 (1) (a)) 
 

The general conditions for consent to be considered as valid are defined in Articles 4 (11)10 and 7 of 
the  GDPR11.  The  WP29  provides  guidance  on  these  general  conditions  for  consent  in  a  separate 
document, which is endorsed by the EDPB.12  These conditions also apply to consent in the context of 
Article  49  (1)  (a).  However,  there  are  specific,  additional  elements  required  for  consent  to  be 
considered a valid legal ground for international data transfers to third countries  and international 
organizations as provided for in Article 49 (1) (a), and this document will focus on them.  

Therefore,  this  section  (1)  of  the  present  guidelines  shall  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  WP29 
guidelines  on  consent,  endorsed  by  the  EDPB,  which  provide  a  more  detailed  analysis  on  the 
interpretation of the general conditions and criteria of consent under the GDPR.13 It should also be 
noted that, according to Article 49 (3), public authorities are not able to rely on this derogation in the 
exercise of their public powers. 
 
Article  49  (1)  (a)  states  that  a  transfer  of  personal  data  to  a  third  country  or  an  international 
organization  may  be  made  in  the  absence  of an  adequacy  decision  pursuant  to  Article  45(3), or of 
appropriate safeguards pursuant to Article 46, including binding corporate rules, on the condition that 
‘the data subject has explicitly consented to the proposed transfer, after having been informed of the 
possible risks of such transfers for the data subject due to the absence of an adequacy decision and 
appropriate safeguards’.  

2.1.1  Consent must be explicit 
According to Article 4 (11) of the GDPR,  any consent should be freely given, specific, informed and 
unambiguous. On this very last condition, Article 49 (1) (a) is stricter as it requires “explicit” consent. 
This is also a new requirement in comparison to Article 26 (1) (a) of Directive 95/46/EC, which  only 
required “unambiguous” consent. The GDPR requires explicit consent in situations where particular 
data  protection  risks  may  emerge,  and  so,  a  high  individual  level  of  control  over  personal  data  is 
required, as is the case for the processing of special category data (Article 9 (2) (a)) and automated 
decisions  (Article  22  (2)  (c)).  Such  particular  risks  also  appear  in  the  context  of  international  data 
transfers. 
 
For further guidance on the requirement of explicit consent, and for the other applicable requirements 
needed for consent to be considered valid, please refer to the WP29’s Guidelines on Consent which 
are endorsed by the EDPB.14  
 

                                                           
10 According to Article 4(11) of the GDPR, 'consent' of the data subject means any freely given, specific, informed 
and  unambiguous  indication  of  the  data  subject's  wishes  by  which  he  or  she,  by  a  statement  or  by  a  clear 
affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or her. 
11 Also recitals 32, 33, 42 and 43 give further guidance on consent 
12 See Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Consent under Regulation 2016/679 (WP259)  
13 Idem  
14 Idem 

6 

 

2.1.2 Consent must be specific for the particular data transfer/set of transfers   
One of the requirements of valid consent is that it must be specific. In order to constitute a valid ground 
for a data transfer pursuant to Article 49 (1) (a), hence, consent needs to be specifically given for the 
particular data transfer or set of transfers.  

The  element  “specific”  in the  definition of  consent  intends  to  ensure  a  degree  of  user  control  and 
transparency for the data subject. This element is also closely linked with the requirement that consent 
should be “informed”. 

 

Since consent must be specific, it is sometimes impossible to obtain the data subject’s prior consent 
for  a  future  transfer  at  the  time  of  the  collection  of  the  data,  e.g.  if  the  occurrence  and  specific 
circumstances of a transfer are not known at the time consent is requested, the impact on the data 
subject cannot be assessed. As an example, an EU company collects its customers’ data for a specific 
purpose (delivery of goods) without considering transferring this data, at that time, to a third party 
outside the EU. However, some years later, the same company is acquired by a non-EU company which 
wishes to transfer the personal data of its customers to another company outside the EU. In order for 
this transfer to be valid on the grounds of the consent derogation, the data subject should give his/her 
consent for this specific transfer at the time when the transfer is envisaged. Therefore, the consent 
provided  at  the  time  of the  collection  of the  data  by  the  EU  company  for  delivery  purposes  is  not 
sufficient to justify the use of this derogation for the transfer of the personal data outside the EU which 
is envisaged later.  
 
Therefore, the data exporter must make sure to obtain specific consent before the transfer is put in 
place even if this occurs after the collection of the data has been made. This requirement is also related 
to the necessity for consent to be informed. It is possible to obtain the specific consent of a data subject 
prior  to  the  transfer  and  at  the  time  of  the  collection  of  the  personal  data  as  long  as  this  specific 
transfer is made known to the data subject and the circumstances of the transfer do not change after 
the specific consent has been given by the data subject. Therefore the data exporter must make sure 
that the requirements set out in section 1.3 below are also complied with.  
 
2.1.3 Consent must be informed15  particularly as to the possible risks of the transfer 
This condition is particularly important since it reinforces and further specifies the general requirement 
of “informed” consent as applicable to any consent and laid down in Art. 4 (11).16 As such, the general 
requirement  of  “informed”  consent,  requires,  in  the  case  of  consent  as  a  lawful  basis  pursuant  to 
Article 6(1) (a) for a data transfer, that the data subject is properly informed in advance of the specific 
circumstances of the transfer, (i.e. the data controller’s identity, the purpose of the transfer, the type 
of data, the existence of the right to withdraw consent, the identity or the categories of recipients).17  
 
In addition to this general requirement of “informed” consent, where personal data are transferred to 
a third country under Article 49 (1) (a), this provision requires data subjects to be also informed of the 
specific  risks  resulting  from  the  fact  that  their  data  will  be  transferred  to  a  country  that  does  not 
provide adequate protection and that no adequate safeguards aimed at providing protection for the 
data are being implemented. The provision of this information is essential in order to enable the data 
subject to consent with full knowledge of these specific facts of the transfer and therefore if it is not 
supplied, the derogation will not apply.  
 

                                                           
15 The general transparency requirements of Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR should also be complied with. For 
more information see Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679 (WP 260) 
16 See Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on Consent under Regulation 2016/679 (WP259)  
17 Idem, page 13 

7 

 

The information provided to data subjects in order to obtain consent for the transfer of their personal 
data to third parties established in third countries should also specify all data recipients or categories 
of recipients, all countries to which the personal data are being transferred to, that the consent is the 
lawful  ground for the transfer, and that the third country to which the data will be transferred does 
not provide for an adequate level of data protection based on a European Commission decision.18 In 
addition, as mentioned above, information has to be given as to the possible risks for the data subject 
arising from the absence of adequate protection in the third country and the absence of appropriate 
safeguards. Such notice, which could be standardized, should include for example information that in 
the third country there might not be a supervisory authority and/or data processing principles and/or 
data subject rights might not be provided for in the third country. 

In the specific case where a transfer is performed after the collection of personal data from the data 
subject has been made, the data exporter should inform the data subject of the transfer and of its risks 
before it takes place so as to collect his explicit consent to the “proposed” transfer.  
 
As shown by the analysis above, the GDPR sets a high threshold for the use the derogation of consent.  
This  high  threshold,  combined  with  the  fact  that  the  consent  provided  by  a  data  subject  can  be 
withdrawn at any time, means that consent might prove not to be a feasible long term solution for 
transfers to third countries. 
 
2.2 Transfer necessary for the performance of a contract between the data subject 
and the controller or for the implementation of precontractual measures taken at the 
data subject’s request - (49 (1) (b)) 
In view of recital 111, data transfers on the  grounds  of this derogation may  take place “where the 
transfer is occasional and necessary in relation to a contract (…)”19  

In  general,  although  the  derogations  relating  to  the  performance  of  a  contract  may  appear  to  be 
potentially  rather  broad,  they  are  being  limited  by  the  criterions  of  “necessity”  and  of  “occasional 
transfers”. 

Necessity of the data transfer 

The “necessity test” 20 limits the number of cases in which recourse can be made to Article 49 (1) (b).21 
It  requires  a  close  and  substantial  connection  between  the  data  transfer  and  the  purposes  of  the 
contract.  

This  derogation  cannot  be  used  for  example  when  a  corporate  group  has,  for  business  purposes, 
centralized its payment and human resources management functions for all its staff in a third country 
as there is no direct and objective link between the performance of the employment contract and such 
transfer.22 Other grounds for transfer as provided for in Chapter V such as standard contractual clauses 
or binding corporate rules may, however, be suitable for the particular transfer.  

                                                           
18 The last mentioned requirement also stems from the duty to inform the data subjects (Article 13(1)(f), Article 
14(1)(e)) 
19 The criterion of “occasional” transfers is found in recital 111 and applies to the derogations of Article 49 (1) 
(b), (c) and (e).  
20 See also Article 29 Working Party Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of the data controller 
under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC (WP 217) 
21 The “necessity” requirement also can be found in the derogations set forth in Article 49 (1) (c) to (f). 
22 In addition it will not be seen as being occasional (see below).  

8 

 

On the other hand, the transfer by travel agents of personal data concerning their individual clients to 
hotels or to other commercial partners that would be called upon in the organization of these clients’ 
stay abroad can be deemed necessary for the purposes of the contract entered into by the travel agent 
and the client, since, in this case, there is a sufficient close and substantial connection between the 
data transfer and the purposes of the contract (organization of clients’ travel).  

This  derogation  cannot  be  applied  to  transfers  of  additional  information  not  necessary  for  the 
performance  of  the  contract  or,  respectively,  for  the  implementation  of  precontractual  measures 
requested by the data subject23; for additional data other tools would hence be required.  

Occasional transfers  

Personal data may only be transferred under this derogation when this transfer is occasional.24 It would 
have to be  established on a case by case  basis  whether data transfers or a data transfer would be 
determined as “occasional” or “non-occasional”.  

A transfer here may be deemed occasional for example if personal data of a sales manager, who in the 
context of his/her employment contract travels to different clients in third countries, are to be sent to 
those clients in order to arrange the meetings. A transfer could also be considered as occasional if a 
bank in the EU transfers personal data to a bank in a third country in order to execute  a client’s request 
for making a payment, as long as this transfer does not occur in the framework of a stable cooperation 
relationship between the two banks.  

On the contrary, transfers would not qualify as “occasional” in a case where a multi-national company 
organises trainings in a training centre in a third country and systematically transfers the personal data 
of those employees that attend a training course (e.g. data such as name and job title, but potentially 
also dietary requirements or mobility restrictions). Data transfers regularly occurring within a stable 
relationship would be deemed as systematic and repeated, hence exceeding an “occasional” character. 
Consequently, in this case many data transfers within a business relationship may not be based on 
Article 49 (1) (b).  

According to Article 49(1) (3), this derogation cannot apply to activities carried out by public authorities 
in the exercise of their public powers. 

2.3 Transfer necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract concluded in 
the interest of the data subject between the controller and another natural or legal 
person - (49 (1) (c)) 
The interpretation of this provision is necessarily similar to that of Article 49 (1) (b); namely, that a 
transfer  of  data  to  a  third  country  or  an  international  organization  in  the  absence  of  an  adequacy 
decision pursuant to Article 45(3), or of appropriate safeguards pursuant to Article 46, can only  be 
deemed to fall under the derogation of Article 49(1) (c), if it can be considered to be “necessary for the 
conclusion  or  performance  of  a  contract  between  the  data  controller  and  another  natural  or  legal 
person, in the interest of the data subject”.  

Aside from being necessary, recital 111 indicates that, data transfers may only take place “where the 
transfer is occasional and necessary in relation to a contract (...)” Therefore, apart from the “necessity 

                                                           
23 More generally, all derogations of Article 49(1) (b) to (f) only allow that the data which are necessary for the 
purpose of the transfer may be transferred. 
24 As to the general definition of the term « occasional » see page 4 

9 

 

test”, personal data here as well may only be transferred under this derogation only when the transfer 
is occasional.  

Necessity of the data transfer and conclusion of the contract in the interest of the data subject  

Where an organization has, for business purposes, outsourced activities such as payroll management 
to service providers outside the EU, this derogation will not provide a basis for data transfers for such 
purposes, since no close and substantial link between the transfer and a contract concluded in the data 
subject’s interest can be established even if the end purpose of the transfer is the management of the 
pay of the employee.25  Other transfer tools provided in Chapter V may provide a more suitable basis 
for such transfers such as standard contractual clauses or binding corporate rules.   

Occasional transfers  

Moreover,  personal  data  may  only  be  transferred  under  this  derogation,  when  the  transfer  is 
occasional  as it is the case under  the  derogation of Article  49 (1) (b). Therefore,  in order to assess 
whether such transfer is occasional, the same test has to be carried out26.  

Finally, according to Article 49(1) (3), this derogation cannot apply to activities carried out by public 
authorities in the exercise of their public powers.27 

2.4 Transfer is necessary for important reasons of public interest - (49 (1) (d)) 
This derogation, usually referred to as the “important public interest derogation”, is very similar to the 
provision contained in Directive 95/46/EC28 under Article 26 (1) (d), which provides that a transfer shall 
take place only where it is necessary or legally required on important public interest grounds.  

According to Article 49 (4), only public interests recognized in Union law or in the law of the Member 
State to which the controller is subject can lead to the application of this derogation.  

However, for the application of this derogation, it is not sufficient that the data transfer is requested 
(for example by a third country authority) for an investigation which serves a public interest of a third 
country which, in an abstract sense, also exists in EU or Member State law.  Where for example a third 
country authority requires a data transfer for an investigation aimed at combatting terrorism, the mere 
existence  of  EU  or  member  state  legislation  also  aimed  at  combatting  terrorism  is  not  as  such  a 
sufficient  trigger  to  apply  Article  49  (1)  (d)  to  such  transfer.  Rather,  as  emphasized  by  the  WP29, 
predecessor of the EDPB, in previous statements,29  the derogation only applies when it can also be 
deduced from EU law or the law of the member state to which the controller is subject that such data 
transfers are allowed for important public interest purposes including in the spirit of reciprocity for 
international  cooperation.    The  existence  of  an  international  agreement  or  convention  which 
recognises a certain objective and provides for international cooperation to foster that objective can 
be an indicator when assessing the existence of a public interest pursuant to Article 49 (1) (d), as long 
as the EU or the Member States are a party to that agreement or convention. 

                                                           
25 In addition it will not be seen as being occasional (see below).  
26 As to the general definition of the term “occasional” please see page 4 
27 For more information please refer to section 1, page 5 above.  
28  DIRECTIVE  95/46/EC  OF  THE  EUROPEAN  PARLIAMENT  AND  OF  THE  COUNCIL,  of  24  October  1995  on  the 
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data 
29 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 10/2006 on the processing of personal data by the Society for Worldwide 
Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) (WP128), p. 25 

10 

 

Although mainly focused to be used by public authorities, Article 49 (1) (d) may also be relied upon by 
private entities. This is supported by some of the examples enumerated in recital 112 which mention 
both transfers by public authorities and private entities30.  

As such, the essential requirement for the applicability of this derogation is the finding of an important 
public interest and not the nature of the organization (public, private or international organization) 
that transfers and/or receives the data.  

Recitals  111  and  112  indicate  that  this  derogation  is  not  limited  to  data  transfers  that  are 
“occasional”31. Yet, this does not mean that data transfers on the basis of the important public interest 
derogation under Article 49 (1) (d) can take place on a large scale and in a systematic manner. Rather, 
the general principle needs to be respected according to which the derogations as set out in Article 49 
shall not become “the rule” in practice, but need to be restricted to specific situations and each data 
exporter needs to ensure that the transfer meets the strict necessity test.32  

Where transfers are made in the usual course of business or practice, the EDPB strongly encourages 
all  data  exporters  (in  particular  public  bodies33)  to  frame  these  by  putting  in  place  appropriate 
safeguards in accordance with Article 46 rather than relying on the derogation as per Article 49(1) (d).  

2.5 Transfer is necessary for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims - 
(49 (1) (e))  
Establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims 

Under Article 49 (1) (e), transfers may take place when “the transfer is necessary for the establishment, 
exercise  or  defense  of  legal  claims”.  Recital  111  states  that  a  transfer  can  be  made  where  it  is 
“occasional and necessary in relation to a contract or a legal claim, regardless of whether in a judicial 
procedure or whether in an administrative or any out-of-court procedure, including procedures before 
regulatory  bodies”.  This  covers  a  range  of  activities  for  example,  in  the  context  of  a  criminal  or 
administrative investigation in a third country (e.g. anti-trust law, corruption, insider trading or similar 
situations), where the derogation may apply to a transfer of data for the purpose of defending oneself 
or for obtaining a reduction or waiver of a fine legally foreseen e.g. in anti-trust investigations. As well, 
data transfers for the purpose of formal pre-trial discovery procedures in civil litigation may fall under 
this derogation. It can also cover actions by the data exporter to institute procedures in a third country 
for example commencing litigation or seeking approval for a merger. The derogation cannot be used 
to justify the transfer of personal data on the grounds of the mere possibility that legal proceedings or 
formal procedures may be brought in the future.  

This derogation can apply to activities carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their public 
powers (Article 49 (3)). 

The combination of the terms “legal claim” and “procedure” implies that the relevant procedure must 
have a basis in law, including a formal, legally defined process, but is not necessarily limited to judicial 
or administrative procedures (“or any out of court procedure”). As a transfer needs to be made in a 

                                                           
30  “international  data  exchange  between  competition  authorities,  tax  or  customs  administrations,  between 
financial supervisory authorities, between services competent for social security matters, or for public health, for 
example in the case of contact tracing for contagious diseases or in order to reduce and/or eliminate doping in 
sport.” 
31 As to the general definition of the term « occasional » see page  4 
32 See also page 3 
33  For  example  financial  supervisory  authorities  exchanging  data  in  the  context  of  international  transfers  of 
personal data for administrative cooperation purposes 

11 

 

procedure, a close link is necessary between a data transfer and a specific procedure regarding the 
situation in question. The abstract applicability of a certain type of procedure would not be sufficient.  

Data controllers and data processors need to be aware that national law may also contain so-called 
“blocking statutes”, prohibiting them from or restricting them in transferring personal data to foreign 
courts or possibly other foreign official bodies. 

Necessity of the data transfer 

A data transfer in question may only take place when it is necessary for the establishment, exercise or 
defense of the legal claim in question. This “necessity test” requires a close and substantial connection 
between  the  data  in  question  and  the  specific  establishment,  exercise  or  defense  of  the  legal 
position.34 The mere interest of third country authorities or possible “good will” to be obtained from 
the third country authority as such would not be sufficient. 

Whilst there may be a temptation for a data exporter to transfer all possibly relevant personal data in 
response to a request or for instituting legal procedures, this would not be in line with this derogation 
or with the GDPR more generally as this (in the principle of data minimization) emphasizes the need 
for personal data to be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes 
for which they are processed.  

In relation to litigation proceedings the WP29, predecessor of the EDPB, has already set out a layered 
approach to the question of whether the personal data should be transferred, including the application 
of this principle. As a first step, there should be a careful assessment of whether anonymized data 
would be sufficient in the particular case.  If this is not the case, then transfer of pseudonymized data 
could be considered. If it is necessary to send personal data to a third country, its relevance to the 
particular matter should be assessed before the transfer – so only a set of personal data that is actually 
necessary is transferred and disclosed.  

Occasional transfer 

Such  transfers  should  only  be  made  if  they  are  occasional.  For  information  on  the  definition  of 
occasional transfers please see the relevant section on “occasional and “non-repetitive” transfers.35 
Data exporters would need to carefully assess each specific case. 

2.6 Transfer necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of 
other persons, where the data subject is physically or legally incapable of giving 
consent – (49 (1) (f)) 
The derogation of Article 49 (1) (f) obviously applies when data is transferred in the event of a medical 
emergency  and  where  it  is  considered  that  such  transfer  is  directly  necessary  in  order  to  give  the 
medical care required. 

Thus, for example, it must be legally possible to transfer data (including certain personal data) if the 
data  subject,  whilst outside  the  EU,  is  unconscious  and  in  need of  urgent medical  care,  and only  a 
exporter (e.g. his usual doctor), established in an EU Member State, is able to supply these data. In 
such cases the law assumes that the imminent risk of serious harm to the data subject outweighs data 
protection concerns.  

                                                           
34 Recital 111: “necessary in relation to a contract or a legal claim.” 
35 Page 4 

 

12 

The transfer must relate to the individual interest of the data subject or to that of another person’s 
and, when it bears on health data, it must be necessary for an essential diagnosis. Accordingly, this 
derogation cannot be used to justify transferring personal medical data outside the EU if the purpose 
of the transfer is not to treat the particular case of the data subject or that of another person’s but, for 
example, to carry out general medical research that will not yield results until sometime in the future.  

Indeed, the GDPR does not restrict the use of this derogation to the physical integrity of a person but 
also leaves room for example to consider the cases where the mental integrity of a person should be 
protected.  In  this  case,  the  person  concerned  would  also  be  incapable  -  physically  or  legally  -  of 
providing  his/her  consent  for  the  transfer  of  his/her  personal  data.  In  addition,  the  concerned 
individual whose personal data  are the  subject of the  transfer  specifically must not be able to give 
his/her consent – physically or legally - to this transfer.  

However, whenever the data subject has the ability to make a valid decision, and his/her consent can 
be solicited, then this derogation cannot apply.  

For example, where the personal data is required to prevent eviction from a property, this would not   
fall  under  this  derogation  as,  even  though  housing  be  considered  as  a  vital  interest,  the  person 
concerned can provide his/her consent for the transfer of his/her data. 

This ability to make a valid decision can depend on physical, mental but also legal incapability. A legal 
incapability can encompass, without prejudice to national representation mechanisms, for example, 
the case of a minor. This legal incapability has to be proved, depending on the case, through either a 
medical  certificate  showing  the  mental  incapability  of  the  person  concerned  or  through  a 
governmental document confirming the legal situation of the person concerned.  

Data  transfers  to  an  international  humanitarian  organization,  necessary  to  fulfil  a  task  under  the 
Geneva  Conventions or to comply with international humanitarian law applicable in armed conflict 
may also fall under Article 49 (1) (f), see recital 112. Again, in such cases the data subject needs to be 
physically or legally incapable of giving consent.  

The transfer of personal data after the occurrence of natural disasters and in the context of sharing of 
personal information with entities and persons for the purpose of rescue and retrieval operations (for 
example,  relatives  of  disaster  victims  as well  as  with  government  and  emergency  services),  can  be 
justified  under  this  derogation.  Such  unexpected  events  (floods,  earthquakes,  hurricanes  etc.)  can 
warrant the urgent transfer of certain personal data to learn for example, the location and status of 
victims. In such situations it is considered that the data subject concerned is unable to provide his/her 
consent for the transfer of his/her data.  

2.7. Transfer made from a public register - (49 (1) (g) and 49 (2))  
Article  49 (1) (g)  and  Article  49 (2)  allow  the  transfer  of  personal  data  from  registers  under  certain 
conditions. A register in general is defined as a “(written) record containing regular entries of items or 
details” or as “an official list or record of names or items » 36, where in the context of Article 49, a 
register could be in written or electronic form.  

The  register  in  question  must,  according  to  Union  or  Member  State  law,  be  intended  to  provide 
information to the public. Therefore, private registers (those in the responsibility of private bodies) are 

                                                           
36 Merriam Webster Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/register (22.01.2018); Oxford 
Dictionary https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/register (22.01.2018). 

13 

 

outside of the scope of this derogation (for example private registers through which credit-worthiness 
is appraised.  

The register must be open to consultation by either: 

(a) the public in general or 

(b) any person who can demonstrate a legitimate interest. 

These  could  be,  for  example:  registers  of  companies,  registers of  associations, registers of  criminal 
convictions, (land) title registers or public vehicle registers. 

In addition to the  general requirements  regarding  the  set-up of the  registers  themselves, transfers 
from these registers may only take place if and to the extent that, in each specific case, the conditions 
for consultation that are set forth by Union or Member State law are fulfilled (regarding these general 
conditions, see Article 49 (1) (g).  

Data controllers and data processors wishing to transfer personal data under this derogation need to 
be aware that a transfer cannot include the entirety of the personal data or entire categories of the 
personal  data  contained  in  the  register  (Article  49 (2)).  Where  a  transfer  is  made  from  a  register 
established by law and where it is to be consulted by persons having a legitimate interest, the transfer 
can only be made at the request of those persons or if they are recipients, taking into account of the 
data subjects’ interests and fundamental rights37. On a case by case basis, data exporters, in assessing 
whether the transfer is appropriate, would always have to consider the interests and rights of the data 
subject. 

Further use of personal data from such registers as stated above may only take place in compliance 
with applicable data protection law. 

This derogation can also apply  to activities carried out  by public authorities in the exercise of their 
public powers (Article 49 (3)). 

2.8. Compelling legitimate interests – (49 (1) § 2) 
Article  49  (1)  §  2  introduces  a  new  derogation  which  was  not  previously  included  in  the  Directive. 
Under a number of specific, expressly enumerated conditions, personal data can be transferred if it is 
necessary for the purposes of compelling legitimate interests pursued by the data exporter.  

This derogation is envisaged by the law as a last resort, as it will only apply where “a transfer could not 
be based on a provision in Article 45 or 46, including the provisions on binding corporate rules, and 
none of the derogations for a specific situation is applicable”.38  

This  layered  approach  to  considering  the  use  of  derogations  as  a  basis  for  transfers  requires 
consideration of whether it is possible to use a transfer tool provided in Article 45 or 46 or one of the 
specific derogations set out in Article 49 (1) § 1, before resorting to the derogation of Article 49 (1) §2. 
This  can  only  be  used  in  residual  cases  according  to  recital  113  and  is  dependent  on  a  significant 
number of conditions expressly laid down by law. In line with the principle of accountability enshrined 
in the GDPR39 the data exporter must be therefore able to demonstrate that it was neither possible to 
frame  the  data  transfer  by  appropriate  safeguards  pursuant  to  Article  46  nor  to  apply  one  of  the 
derogations as contained in Article 49 (1) § 1.  

                                                           
37 Recital 111 of the GDPR 
38 Article 49 (1) § 2 GDPR 
39 Article 5 (2) and Article 24 (1) 

 

14 

This  implies  that  the  data  exporter  can  demonstrate  serious  attempts  in  this  regard,  taking  into 
account  the  circumstances  of  the  data  transfer.  This may  for example  and  depending  on  the  case, 
include demonstrating verification of whether the data transfer can be performed on the basis of the 
data subjects’ explicit consent to the transfer under Article 49 (1) (a). However, in some circumstances 
the  use  of  other  tools  might  not  be  practically  possible.  For  example,  some  types  of  appropriate 
safeguards pursuant to Article 46 may not be a realistic option for a data exporter that is a small or 
medium-sized  company.40  This  may  also  be  the  case  for  example,  where  the  data  importer  has 
expressly refused to enter into a data transfer contract on the basis of standard data protection clauses 
(Article 46 (2) (c)) and no other option is available (including, depending on the case, the choice of a 
different “data importer”) – see also the paragraph below on ‘compelling’ legitimate interest.  

Compelling legitimate interests of the controller 

According  to  the  wording  of  the  derogation,  the  transfer  must  be  necessary  for  the  purposes  of 
pursuing  compelling  legitimate  interests  of  the  data  controller  which  are  not  overridden  by  the 
interests or rights and freedoms of the data subject. Consideration of the interests of a data exporter 
in its capacity as data processor or of the data importer are not relevant.   

Moreover, only interests that can be recognized as “compelling” are relevant and this considerably 
limits the scope of the application of the derogation as not all conceivable “legitimate interests” under 
Article 6 (1) (f) will apply here. Rather a certain higher threshold will apply, requiring the compelling 
legitimate interest to be essential for the data controller. For example, this might be the case if a data 
controller is compelled to transfer the personal data in order to protect its organization or systems 
from serious immediate harm or from a severe penalty which would seriously affect its business.  

Not repetitive 

According to its express wording, Article 49 (1) § 2 can only apply to a transfer that is not repetitive41.  

Limited number of data subjects 

Additionally, the transfer must only concern a limited number of data subjects. No absolute threshold 
has been set as this will depend on the context but the number must be appropriately small taking into 
consideration the type of transfer in question.   

In a practical context, the notion “limited number of data subjects” is dependent on the actual case in 
hand. For example, if a data controller needs to transfer personal data to detect a unique and serious 
security incident in order to protect its organization, the question here would be how many employees’ 
data the data controller would have to transfer in order to achieve this compelling legitimate interest.   

As such, in order for the derogation to apply, this transfer should not apply to all the employees of the 
data controller but rather to a certain confined few. 

Balancing the “compelling legitimate interests of the controller”  against the “interests or rights and 
freedoms of the data subject” on the basis of an assessment of all circumstances surrounding the data 
transfer and providing for suitable safeguards  

As a further requirement, a balancing test between the data exporter’s (compelling) legitimate interest 
pursued  and  the  interests  or  rights  and  freedoms  of the  data  subject  has  to  be  performed.  In  this 

                                                           
40 For example binding corporate rules may often not be a feasible option for small and medium-sized 
enterprises due to the considerable administrative investments they imply. 
41 For more information on the term « not repetitive » see page 4 

15 

 

regard, the law expressly requires the data exporter to assess all circumstances of the data transfer in 
question and, based on this assessment, to provide “suitable safeguards” regarding the protection of 
the data transferred. This requirement highlights the special role that safeguards may play in reducing 
the undue impact of the  data  transfer on the data subjects and thereby in possibly  influencing the 
balance of rights and interests to the extent that the data controller’s interests will not be overridden.42 

As to the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject which need to be taken into consideration, 
the possible negative effects, i.e. the risks of the data transfer on any type of (legitimate) interest of 
the  data  subject  have  to  be  carefully  forecasted  and  assessed,  by  taking  into  consideration  their 
likelihood and severity.43 In this regard, in particular any possible damage (physical and material, but 
also non-material as e.g. relating to a loss of reputation) needs to be taken into consideration44. When 
assessing these risks and what could under the given circumstances possibly be considered as “suitable 
safeguards” for the rights and freedoms of the data subject, the data exporter needs to particularly 
take into account the nature of the data, the purpose and duration of the processing as well as the 
situation in the country of origin, the third country and, if any, the country of final destination of the 
transfer.45  

Furthermore, the law requires the data exporter to apply additional measures as safeguards in order 
to minimize the identified risks caused by the data transfer for the data subject.46 This is set up by the 
law as a mandatory requirement, so it can be followed that in the absence of additional safeguards, 
the controller’s interests in the transfer will in any case be overridden by the interests or rights and 
freedoms of the data subject.47 As to the nature of such safeguards, it is not possible to set up general 
requirements  applicable  to  all  cases  in  this  regard, but  these  will  rather  very much  depend  on  the 
specific  data  transfer  in  question.  Safeguards  might  include,  depending  on  the  case,  for  example 
measures aimed at ensuring deletion of the data as soon as possible after the transfer, or limiting the 
purposes for which the data may be processed following the transfer. Particular attention should be 
paid  to  whether  it  may  be  sufficient  to  transfer  pseudonymized  or  encrypted  data.48  Moreover, 
technical and organizational measures aimed at ensuring that the transferred data cannot be used for 
other purposes than those strictly foreseen by the data exporter should be examined. 

Information of the supervisory authority  

The duty to inform the supervisory authority does not mean that the transfer needs to be authorized 
by the supervisory authority, but rather it serves as an additional safeguard by enabling the supervisory 
                                                           
42 The important role of safeguards in the context of balancing the interests of the data controller and the data 
subjects has already been highlighted by the Article 29 Working Party in WP 217, p. 31. 
43 See Recital 75: “The risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, of varying likelihood and severity (…)” 
44 See Recital 75: “The risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, of varying likelihood and severity, may 
result from personal data processing which could lead to physical, material or non-material damage.”  
45 Recital 113 
46 While in the context of an “ordinary” balancing test foreseen by the law such (additional) measures might not 
be necessary in each case (see Article 29 Working Party Working document on Draft Ad hoc contractual clauses 
“EU  data  processor  to  non-EU  sub-processor"  (WP  214),  p.  41),  the  wording  of  Art.  49  (1)  §  2  suggests  that 
additional measures are mandatory in order the data transfer to comply with the “balancing test” and therefore 
to be feasible under this derogation.  
47 While in the context of an “ordinary” balancing test foreseen by the law such (additional) measures might not 
be necessary in each case (see Article 29 Working Party Opinion 06/2014 on the notion of legitimate interests of 
the data controller under Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, WP 217, p. 41), the wording of Art. 49 (1) § 2 suggests 
that  additional  measures  are  mandatory  in  order  the  data  transfer  to  comply  with  the  “balancing  test”  and 
therefore to be feasible under this derogation.  
48 For other examples of possible safeguards see Article 29 Working Party Working document on Draft Ad hoc 
contractual clauses “EU data processor to non-EU sub-processor" (WP 214), p. 41-43 

16 

 

authority to assess the data transfer (if it considers it appropriate) as to its possible impact on the rights 
and freedoms of the data subjects affected. As part of its compliance with the accountability principle, 
it is recommended that  the  data  exporter  records  all  relevant  aspects of the  data transfer e.g. the 
compelling legitimate interest pursued, the “competing” interests of the individual, the nature of the 
data transferred and the purpose of the transfer.  

Providing  information  of  the  transfer  and  the  compelling  legitimate  interests  pursued  to  the  data 
subject 

The  data  controller  must  inform  the  data  subject  of  the  transfer  and  of  the  compelling  legitimate 
interests pursued. This information must be provided in addition to that required to be provided under 
to Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

 

17 

