1/53

 File No.: PS/00286/2021

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
the following

BACKGROUND

 FIRST: On 01/8/2021, a claim is received from A.A.A. and others, who manifest
They are public officials and teachers attached to the Official School of Languages (EOI) of
 (COUNCIL OF
Madrid "Jesús Maestro" (claimants) against the aforementioned EOI,
EDUCATION, UNIVERSITIES, SCIENCE AND SPOKESMAN of the CCAA OF MADRID),
with NIF S7800001E (hereinafter, the claimed party).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

-On 11/12/2019, the Director of the EOI (Director) "imposed on us, without consultation, debate or gathering
consent, the use of personal email accounts created in the
domain eoijesusmaestro.es, hosted on the GOOGLE SUITE platform", (GS) "to be
used as a form of relationship and communication for all procedures, whether personal or with
students, mandatorily establishing that all communications and procedures
administrative tasks had to be carried out through said platform" "linked to the account
personnel that appeared in the file of each teacher or worker”.

The complainants point out that the Director (with sole system administrator privileges)
is enabled by the "platform" "to access all personal information and even to the
emails that are received or sent", by having "single administrator" privileges. contributes
ANNEX 16, consisting of the printing of a page from the support website of
GS, entitled “data access by the administrator or service provider”,
which informs that with the GOOGLE WORKSPACE account, formerly GS, "using the
address assigned to you by your administrator, you can access most of the
Google products. “Remember that the administrator has access to all data
stored in this account, including your email. In addition, the manager of the
domain can disable certain services or limit the ability to transfer data
from or to another account of the organization”.

“Previously, it was being used by all the staff, “personal and
institutions within the platform of the Ministry of Education, at educamadrid.org.”

In ANNEX 4, provide a copy of the modification of the internal regulations of 12/20/2019, which
manifest was unilateral, in which it provides for the obligation to relate to the School or the
exercise of rights, with email accounts, stating that: "the same email address
individual email will be used as personal identification and access credential to
the internal pages of the center and in the different procedures that are articulated.” The mailbox
associated with that address should be consulted at least at the beginning of each
workday".

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/53

On 02/17/2020, ***POSITION 1 of the EOI sent "a query" via email
to the Department of Data Protection (DPD) of the Ministry, on the change of use of
mail, and the impossibility of using the institutional mail of madrid.org. On 02/19/2020, receive
response indicating that "the facts exposed could violate the protection regulations
data, which is why the circumstances that occurred were going to be studied and documented.” HE
documents in ANNEX 6, (32/62) which includes:

- Copy of the email response from the DPD of 02/19/2020, “query about g. suite”, containing in
I attach three pdf files about:

-"instructions for email users 2010", "BOCM instructions 2004 publication
web pagesEducamadrid.pdf" and "I use applications outside of EducaMadrid", which has a link
of the AEPD: "report on the use by teachers and students of applications
that store data in the cloud with systems outside of educational platforms”.

The e-mail indicates: "with the use of non-corporate tools, control is lost
on the processing of personal data as well as compliance with the regulations in the
use of the data and the security measures that must be applied. Must take into account
that the data controller is the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF EDUCATION
SECONDARY, VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND SPECIAL REGIME (DGESFP and RES),
who is the one who decides on the purpose, content and use of personal data
personnel “Therefore, the Director of the center has no authority over the decision of the
purposes in terms of data protection, is assuming a responsibility to
behind the person responsible."

-Provide a copy of ANNEX 9, (41/62) of the DPD, dated April 20, of 6 pages entitled:
”USE OF APPLICATIONS OUTSIDE THOSE OF THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID”
(published on the website of the Ministry and the DPD) that responds to a "request for
information on legality" contained in ANNEX 8 (consultation on the imposition of the use of
said accounts to teachers, made on 02/27/2020, from EOI staff to the DPD),
indicating that they are unaware of the access permissions and property of the Director as
domain administrator on our accounts.

It alludes to Annex 9 reproducing in part and summarizing the AEPD report on "use of
by teachers and students of applications that store data in the cloud with
systems outside of educational platforms" (03/06/2018) and the adequacy of the regulations
in terms of security, which reproduces statements such as that "any application that
include student identification can lead to profiling…”.

It reiterates that a Director of an educational center is not a governing body with the capacity to
decision on the processing of personal data, and that if they are, as responsible for the
treatment, the General Directorates of the Ministry, in accordance with the Decree that
establishes the organic structure of the Ministry of Education and Youth, Decree
288/2019 of 12/11 of the Governing Council.

The "security policy" section relating to educational centers is established in which
educational applications for learning and classroom organization will be included. "The
Centers must request, prior to their use, the authorization of the person in charge of the
treatment."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/53

There must be a procedure for the center to request this prior authorization. The
application will entail:

to. The evaluation of the application from the point of view of the security of the
information - This requires design and constraints on the amount and type of data to be
be incorporated into applications, which will take into account the privacy of
personal data, and will include assessing the need to dissociate or anonymize the information,
especially when there is transfer of data to third parties or international transfers of
data. All of this must be documented.

b. The privacy of personal data.

c. Once authorized, the center will be able to approve its "commissioning" and its
incorporation into the ANNUAL GENERAL PROGRAM (PGA) with the detail of the use and
the personal data that will be affected. This PGA must be accessible to the
educational community of the center for your consultation. The same requirements apply to
"Personal data processing through apps".

References to the content in the AEPD report point 5, on "guidelines for the
carrying out the evaluation of the applications.”, content in use by teachers
and students of applications that store data in the cloud with systems outside the
educational platforms” (6/03/2018).

-Contains a section on "educational platform of the Community of Madrid", EducaMadrid:

“Educational centers when they use external educational platforms are only justified
when they have not been made available to the centers, means or adequate tools
and equivalents and will require the authorization of the General Directorate of the Ministry
authority, which must establish a procedure for the sake of legal certainty that
prevent the use of those that have not been expressly approved”.

These evaluations and the final decision on the use of the applications or platforms
educational must be validated by the person responsible for the processing of personal data, the
Ministry of Education and Youth, through the corresponding Directorates
General, and must be subject to supervision by the Data Protection Delegation of
the Ministry, which will verify its adequacy to the applicable regulations.”

It also refers to the inclusion in the PGA of the course that must include "the justified use of
the corresponding platforms or external applications, after verifying that
comply with the privacy policy required by the GDPR. In it, will be incorporated
Clear information about the treatments carried out, those responsible for them, their purposes, the
location of the data, the conservation period and the guarantees on its security. Bliss
information must be disclosed to families and students over the age of 14 at
through its publication on the website of the center and any other means that ensures
the obligation to inform about the additional purposes of the use of said tools.
The information offered must be concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with
clear and simple language, especially that addressed to minors.” "It is convenient that
Families consult the PGA to have adequate information, since once its use is approved,
there is an obligation to sign a contract or any other legal figure that binds the
responsible with the person in charge of treatment,-that is, the companies providing the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/53

service that requires obtaining the consent of the families so that said companies
can process your personal data.

It adds that: "However, when the companies providing the service are multinationals
or have a large volume of business, the school cannot underwrite itself
a contract or agreement, but you must accept the conditions of use of the applications or
platforms that they have established, which contradicts the requirement established by the
Data protection regulation according to which it is the person in charge who must impose the
Conditions for data processing by the person in charge. For this reason, the Directorate
General of Bilingualism and Teaching Quality, as responsible according to the current
competence framework, you must validate the use of third-party platforms or applications by
part of the centers, and an agreement or contract must be signed where said
General Directorate as data controller and as manager; of this the company
provider, jointly establishing the conditions of treatment by the
school. Once the agreement is signed, the General Directorate of Early Childhood Education and
Primary and the General Directorate of Secondary Education, Vocational Training and Regime
Special will be responsible, based on the powers attributed by the Decree of
Ministry structure, compliance with what was agreed by the centers
educational.”

-On 04/06/2020, the DPD prepares a report "regarding the use of the GS platform for the
administrative management, as well as the use of non-corporate emails associated with said
platform", which he forwarded to the DGESFP and RES, and this forwarded it to the Director of the EOI on
05/6/2020 (copy of the transfer in ANNEX 13). The report indicates:

"Although due to objective needs to attend to the management of the center, it has been possible to
seek from its management alternatives to the institutional tools that are
offered by the Ministry, their use constitutes a security risk
of information, as well as for the privacy of personal data, including those of
special category, as they are not hosted on secure servers in the EducaMadrid environment.”

The center must make a transition to stop using third-party services such as the
Google Suite platform and its associated email accounts and have the services
insurance provided by the educational administration carrying out the different procedures
through the EducaMadrid platform, which provides a wide range of resources
to cover the digital needs of educational centers, among which are included
email, instant messaging, web hosting, cloud storage, classrooms
virtual, project organizers, free package-compatible operating systems
free office automation, media library, online forms and surveys, among others”.

Add at the end of the letter, that a series of actions are being carried out to improve
EducaMadrid services, "among which are the agreement with Microsoft for the
use of the MICROSOFT OFFICE 365 suite by the CCAA school community
of Madrid, although, in no case, for functions of the management of the centers
teachers, which offers digital services equivalent to those of GOOGLE
 
 ” . (underlining is
of the AEPD)

-The claimants indicate that they currently continue to use the Google platform
to carry out some procedures members of the management team and technicians
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/53

maintenance and the Secretary of Head of Studies, indirectly the teachers and the
students themselves are forced to use this email address to address the team
manager or members of the PAS (communicate possible COVID infections, in ANNEX
15) after eight months have passed since he was ordered by the aforementioned Directorate
General. The document, ANNEX 15-version 12-12-2020, contains instructions in case
someone presents symptoms compatible with COVID, and communication to
through the email address eoijesusmaestro.es of students or affected with
symptoms, and the role of the COVID Coordinator to whom the
reinstatement of the student.

Provide a copy of 18 annexes, some already mentioned, as additional documentation between
the ones that stand out:

ANNEX 1, copy of the email from the School Director dated 11/12/2019 subject:
"professional emails", in which it warns of the implementation of the email address
email address of the School, where all teachers will have a professional address
owned under the control of the school. “It will be configured with automatic forwarding to your
usual addresses so that in principle it is not necessary to consult a
separately” ”that account will give us access to a series of pages and resources-
unlimited storage in the cloud, possibility of cooperative work etc.” sender attached
a list of teachers' addresses, with the name of the email that would correspond to each
person.

ANNEX 2, copy of the Director's writing by email on 08/20/2020, informing the
who need mobility authorizations due to restrictions that request it in the
email addresses on which by clicking the email is created directly for
send it.

In ANNEX 3, email of 12/2/2019, from the Director, he informs that the campaign is open to
2020 of medical examination applications, indicating the information and the link to the
form to request it in the institutional portal, domain: jesusmaestro.es, informing
In addition, that "in order to access the portal, you must use the new account in
eoijesusmaestro.es” – “the username and password were sent in a previous email”.

Written communication of 05/13/2020, in response from the Director of the Madrid Territorial Area to the one sent by
a teacher, a member of the School Council (Annex 7), indicating that she has raised the
consult the DPD.

ANNEX 5, copy of an email dated 01/28/2020, from the Director of the EOI, regarding
instructions on the matter of student reclassifications, and changes in the
communication procedure to the Secretariat, filling out a form from the website of the
school. “It will ask you, of course, to identify yourself with the professional account of the
school and its password, the one we created in December.” At the intersection of communications with
other people, shipments to addresses with domain yahoo.es, or Gmail.com of
02/6/2020. Included in this annex is a letter from a teacher dated 02/06/2020 to Headquarters,
from your domain address @hotmail.com, indicating that you do not want to be forced to
activate an email in my name that has been opened without my consent”,
proposing the solution that the "EducaMadrid" be used.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/53

ANNEX 10, letter from the union representatives addressed to the Territorial Area, dated
03/1/2020, ANNEX 11, from the representatives of the workers addressed to the Directorate of
Territorial area of Madrid, dated 09/21/2019.

ANNEX 17: in "EDUCAMADRID Basics" "Notices to teachers creating teams
in TEAMS and deletion of GOOGLE SUITE dated 11/16/2020” from the Deputy Director.

Information related to the implementation of MICROSOFT TEAMS is given. (although as
It will be seen later, the Ministry-Microsoft agreement took place on 03/08/2021) “On the other hand, the
INSTRUCTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ON DATA PROTECTION
PERSONNEL FOR PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL CENTERS OF THE COMMUNITY OF
MADRID OF 09/08/2020, contemplate that in the management of teaching activity through the
use of educational tools and platforms, centers must refrain from using
non-corporate educational applications or platforms or not considered for the Counseling
as complementary.

This affects the use of GOOGLE SUITE FOR EDUCATION as an educational platform. By not
The General Directorate having reached an agreement with GOOGLE, contrary to what happened
with MICROSOFT, this educational resource will no longer be generally available
for the teachers of the center and will proceed to the elimination of the accounts that still
exist.

Those teachers who want to have an account in the domain eoijesusmaestro.es,
for the purposes of your personal use as a teacher (unlimited storage of materials
didactic in the cloud, calendar management, blogs, etc.) must expressly request it from
through the corresponding virtual classroom form, no later than November 27.”

ANNEX 18: general communication from the Data Protection Delegation, dated May
2020 on "USE OF GOOGLE FORMS TYPE FORMS FOR PROCEDURES
OF STUDENT REGISTRATION.” on the 2020-21 academic year, in which he urges the
Addresses of the Territorial Area so that they communicate to the educational centers that
refrain from designing registration procedures based on forms systems
interactive from other platforms such as GOOGLE forms, because there is no limitation to
treatment by platform providers, "without the existence of a contract of
order of data processing" and without having carried out a risk analysis for the
privacy, as well as the security of the information that must be adapted to the Scheme
National Security. It prescribes deletion of personal data already collected, and gives
instructions to be carried out by another means, considering "said content of a
administrative and must reside on corporate servers”.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), the claim was transferred to the claimed party on 03/2/2021, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the actions
carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations for the protection of
data.

On 04/06/2021, this Agency received a written response, indicating:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/53

-The processing of personal data to which the claim refers corresponds to activities
data for which the DGESFP and RES are responsible, participating in the determination of the
purposes of the treatment, although the determination of the guidelines for the use of the platforms
for educational purposes is the responsibility of the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF BILINGUALISM AND
QUALITY OF TEACHING (DGB and CE), which, according to the definition of responsibility
saber of article 4.7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing
protection of personal data and the free circulation of these data (hereinafter, GDPR);
implies their co-responsibility in said processing of personal data, in accordance with the
Article 26 of the GDPR." It specifies that the DGB and CE is "competent in the design of the pro-
innovation programs to improve the quality of school teaching and for the
preparation of guidelines for the use of computer platforms in educational centers and
computer systems linked to teaching learning and updating”
The treatment activity is called:

  "Management of students enrolled in educational centers that teach non-
university”.

-Provide a copy of Annex I, a document that does not bear a date, addressed by the DPD to three Addresses
General, including the one that alludes to the entry of the claimant's brief of 02/17/2020,
entitled: "CLAIM ABOUT THE USE OF EMAIL AND THE PLATFORM"
TAFORMA G SUITE, OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE TOOLS OF THE COMMUNITY
DAD DE MADRID AT THE EOI JESÚS MAESTRO-JM-” of the DPD, to those responsible for
treatment, DGESFP and RES and DGDB and CE. (15 pages). In it, several aspects are referred
and conclusions about each one. Teachers' claims are considered and valued
the legitimation of the Director of the Educational Center, the educational autonomy and the responsibility
quality of treatment in conjunction with educational competencies in the CCAA of Madrid.

Reference is made to a brief reference to the privacy notice of G SUITE FOR EDUCATION, in
point 4, to the application of the privacy policy of Google and the terms of service.
Also that "the person responsible must adopt the necessary preventive measures"
to be able to identify, assess and manage the risks to which its assets are exposed.
processing activities with the aim of guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical nas. "The Community of Madrid, provided in 2010 some instructions for the use of the
email for users of the domain @madrid.org, fully extensible to
domain @educa.madrid.org, where it is expressly stated that "The use of email
email is provided by the Community of Madrid, for the purposes of communication of a
employed with another(s), or with foreign persons or organizations, for the purpose of
professional activity". “It corresponds to the General Directorates to determine the purposes and means
god to guarantee compliance with data protection regulations, as well as
such as the management, coordination and direction of their treatment. The exercise of
Such competition obliges them to adopt a data protection policy of common application.
common in all public educational centers, which must comply with all measures
technical and organizational measures imposed by the competent management center of the Administration
without prejudice to the fact that each center decides to use external and complementary tools.
of the institutional ones, of whose use the person in charge must have knowledge so that
can assess whether it conforms to security regulations and complies with the privacy policy
privacy established by the management center”. Regarding security compliance, it is
copy the reference to the "privacy shield", which has been annulled since 07/16/2020 by the
Judgment CJEU Schrems II, case C-311/18 Data Protection Commissioner/Maximillian Schre-

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/53

ms and Facebook Ireland. He makes a series of conclusions and recommends to the Director of the
EOI the need to leave the GOOGLE SUITE platform and use tools
institutions with the installation of an official educational management platform.

- In the Official Language Schools, the corporate application "RAÍCES", used in the
compulsory education could not be deployed in the 20-21 academic year, delaying its application
for the next. "For this reason, educational centers have been forced in a way
supervening, to the use of flexible tools”, ”certain EOI temporarily opted
by integrated general purpose software packages such as the platform
GOOGLE SUITE, institutional solution in other CCAAs, until its implementation
of the RAÍCES corporate application of the Ministry of Education and Youth.”
"For not having an alternative computer application, and having caused damage
greater, the provision of the public service has prevailed over the suspension of the application.”

-Alludes to the supervening situation of the pandemic and "of processes deployed in a
telematics", to the recommendation of the DPD to ask the Director of the EOI to abandon
GS and use the institutional tools, and that "a platform of
official educational management, in case the Comprehensive Management System could not be used
educational Community of Madrid: "RAÍCES",

-”It also recommended to the General Directorate of Bilingualism and Teaching Quality, the
development of guidelines and instructions for the use of educational platforms
unrelated to corporate ones, which should also be included in the Instructions for the
beginning of the 2020-2021 academic year (Annex II).”

-The EOI JM, has carried out a specialized consultancy order to audit "all uses
of their information systems”, not yet finished.

-The DGB and CE plans to establish the necessary use of the platforms and applications
institutions of the CCAA of Madrid, which must not be replaced in any case by other
foreign to them, being the use of these a complementary way” “If the center chooses
For including outside applications in your PGA, you must follow the protocol that will be established with
Mandatory character:

“-Inform the people affected by the use of the application or platform of its privacy policy
privacy and obtain your consent when necessary, after assessing the need
ability to host and make transfers or international transfers of data on their servers.
beef.

-Compulsorily carry out a risk analysis or impact assessment, when appropriate,
and design the processing of personal data before using any application or platform.
form, establishing criteria such as the limited use of said data, trying to ensure that they are
the minimum possible, favoring pseudonymization (disassociating personal data
to avoid easily identifying individuals) and where possible, anonymization of
the same (so that identification is impossible).

-In order for the educational center to be able to use external applications or platforms, it must
certify that you have a contract signed by the person responsible for the treatment in favor of the
own center with the person in charge of the treatment or company providing the service, which per-

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/53

allows certifying that the processing of personal data is in accordance with the principles and guarantees
aunts established in the GDPR.”

-The Ministry studies the possibility of establishing an agreement or any other figure that
links it legally with the service provider entities whose platforms are
most frequently used by educational centers, which allows obtaining a verification
by the providers on the transfer and privacy of the data that really minimizes
have the impact on your safety.

-Annex II, with the document entitled: "INSTRUCTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ON
PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OF THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID", of August 2020, of the DPD with recommendations for
the development of guidelines and instructions for the use of educational platforms
outside the corporate ones, which should also be incorporated for the 20-21 academic year (24
pages). Contains a table of general contents, including the section
of “use of educational applications and platforms”. It refers to the purposes
administrative or management of educational centers, "its use is not authorized for
general” “that must be carried out with the official management computer applications”.
Regarding "services that cannot be provided by EducaMadrid, use may be made of
other complementary resources that the educational authority authorizes as such, and that will be
included in the website”

”When public educational centers wish to use educational applications that do not
listed in the preceding paragraphs, must request authorization and supervision from the
Ministry of Education and Youth. They must refrain from using applications or
non-corporate educational platforms or not considered by the Ministry as
complementary that require adherence to the conditions of the service provider, and that do not
allow you to sign a custom treatment contract, where the person responsible must appear
of the treatment. Nor should they do so if they are not capable of guaranteeing and being able to
demonstrate strict compliance with current regulations on data protection.
"When an educational center wishes to use an educational application or platform, it
corporate or non-complementary must prepare a detailed project in advance
on the processing of personal data that you intend to enter in them, for your
subsequent privacy impact assessment and validation by D.G. of Bilingualism and
Quality of Education, which will have the advice of the Delegation of Protection
of data". Determine the content of the project.

It is specified that: "The application will never be used to process character data
administration with legal effects, such as management of student absences and
teachers, processing sick leave, economic management, evaluation of tests of
partial or final knowledge or aptitude, assessment of behaviors or procedures
disciplinary procedures, psycho-pedagogical tests and any other formality
corporate confidential.”

"In addition, when personal data is processed, there must be a written contract between the
Unit of the Ministry of Education and Youth competent and the company providing the
service, which includes the purpose of the treatment, the responsibilities and other requirements
established by the GDPR in its art. 28.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/53

-Annex IV, internal note from the DGESFP and RES to the General Directorate of Infrastructures and
Services and to the DGB and CE, matter "instructions on the use of computer platforms",
letter of 05/06/2020, in which it is indicated that the EOI do not have a management system
within the Madrid Digital environment, an anomalous situation compared to the rest of the
official teachings. Some of them have resorted to temporary solutions arising from
the need. Given the competence of the DGBCE... requests "send us the guidelines
of use of computer platforms other than the corporate ones they are using
certain centers as long as the computer program is not started
ROOTS that allow compliance with data protection regulations”

-As annex 5, it provides the publication on 03/30/2021 in the BOCM of the Collaboration Agreement-
resolution of 03/08/2021 between the Community of Madrid and MICROSOFT IBÉRICA SRL to improve
digital competence in the educational field with the OFFICE 365 environment, as a complement
ment to the corporate tools of the Department.

THIRD: On 04/8/2021, the claim continues, in accordance with the provisions of the
paragraph 5 of article 65 of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: It has been learned that it is published in the BOCM of 06/24/2021, the
Collaboration agreement of 06/10/2021, between the Community of Madrid (Ministry of
Education and Youth) and GOOGLE IRELAND LIMITED, to contribute to the improvement of the
digital competence in the educational field through the use of WORKSPACE FOR EDUCA-
TION, which highlights:

- It is configured as a complement to the corporate tools of the Department to be-
Tools that integrate information and communication technologies in the process
education, as a complement to those that make up the EducaMadrid corporate platform.

-The use of the basic version of Workspace is made available to teachers and students
For Education, through the conditions agreed between the parties in the license and lending
provision of services implemented in the treatment manager contract, that the respondent
sable, the Ministry has carried out a risk analysis.

-It is indicated that the services are regulated by the following agreements, incorporated into the
this Agreement:

“— The TERMS OF SERVICE agreed by the parties regarding the use of Workspace for
Education, which are included as Annex II to this Agreement and which will also be published in
EducaMadrid (“Workspace for Education Terms”). Establishes the terms of service,
among which stands out:

“1.2. Administration Console. The Customer will have access to the Administration Console
tion, with which you can manage your use of the Services and manage User Accounts.
end users and other functionality of the Services. The Ministry shall: (a) administer
End User Accounts through the Administration Console; and (b) determine
the Services to which End Users will have access.

1.3. Accounts and Verification to Use the Services.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/53

(a) Accounts. Customer must have an Account to use the services and is responsible
of the information provided to create it, as well as the security of the passwords of the
Account and any use made of it. Google is under no obligation to provide
create several Accounts to the Client.

(b) Verification to use the Services. Customer must verify a Co-address
Domain Email or a Domain Name to use the Services. If the Client
you do not have a valid permission to use that Domain Email address or not
owns or controls that Domain Name, Google shall have no obligation to provide the
Customer Services and may delete the Account without prior notice.”

— The DATA PROCESSING ADDENDUM, whose current version at the time of signing
ma, as adapted in this Agreement, is incorporated by reference as Annex III.”
Section 6.5.2 b is included as an example. Regarding the Contractual Clauses
Type as described in Section 9.2 (Data Transfers), Google will allow the
Department or an independent auditor designated by the Department to carry out audits
as described in the Standard Contractual Clauses in accordance with Section 6.5.3
(Additional trading conditions for reviews and audits).
The Ministry may carry out an audit to verify compliance by
Google from its obligations under this Data Processing Addendum by
review of the Security Documentation (which reflects the results of the audits carried out
by Google's External Auditor).

FIFTH: On 01/03/2022, it is agreed by the Director of the AEPD:

"START SANCTION PROCEDURE for the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,
UNIVERSITIES, SCIENCE AND SPOKESMAN of the CCAA OF MADRID, with NIF
S7800001E, (EOI) of Madrid "Jesús Maestro" (for the alleged violation of article 32 of the
GDPR, in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the GDPR and for prescription purposes in the
Article 73 f) of the LOPDGDDD.

For the purposes specified in the art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, on Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, the sanction that could
to correspond would be a warning, without prejudice to what results from the instruction.”

SIXTH: On 01/21/2022, the following allegations are received:

1-When on 11/12/2019, the EOI informs that it is going to provide the new resource, the use of
emails that the Senate was carrying out in the EducaMadrid domain. org was testimonial.
The action was part of the "digitization strategy" of the center, whose project
education collected, since July 2019, as detailed in the PGA (general programming
annual) of the academic year 19/20, the need to equip itself with advanced platforms and tools and
specifically among them from GOOGLE SUITE FOR EDUCATION.

“The new accounts were created by the EOI of Jesús Maestro for strictly professional use,
being enabled on 12/1/2019 -document 2-, which is a copy of an email to a
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/53

claimant informing of the professional mail "already operational in the domain eoijesusmaestro,
being able to access the mailbox directly from correo.eoijesusmaestro.es. The mail will
it will continue to arrive at your personal address as well, but you will have to use this new account
to access the links, folders and documents-or it will tell you that you don't have access-“. "without
that the claimant or no other person alleges his opposition in the course of those
weeks."

"EducaMadrid's tools had little implementation and due to difficulties in
the provision of the service, with a strong rejection by the Senate, being the use of an account
institution of the center with the domain eoijesusmaestro.es, an alternative that was chosen
for improvement”.

On the possibility of access by system administrators to the information
operating in the emails of the domain, although it exists, it is not arbitrary but "can be
necessary in a purely professional context, precisely to comply with the
legal requirements of the administrative or judicial authority. This ability to
investigation must be configured ex profeso. Its use is strictly limited. Is left over
registered in the system itself for auditing purposes. In any case, this
configuration was not applied in the school. Provide printing of the application, document 4
about the instructions “use the research tool to see the content of
Gmail messages”. It is about adjusting the configuration of the tool, indicating that it is
must provide a written justification for viewing the message, which remains
logged in the administration console audit log.

2-"A report from the Director of the
EOI of 03/2/2020 where the justification of the adopted tools is detailed and in
particularly the application to the contract previously signed by the center in November 2019
of the standard contractual clauses endorsed by resolution of the AEPD of 06/22/2017”.

3-“In July 2020, the decision to abandon the
managed domain accounts in GOOGLE WORKSPACE”. "Since the beginning of the si-
following school year in September 2020, the use of the Education platform increased.
caMadrid, using only its virtual classrooms for the internal management of the center and directing
I send communications to teachers exclusively to these institutional emails. The
definitive elimination of teacher accounts in the school domain —whose use,
on the other hand, it was never exclusive or a substitute for the use of those of EducaMadrid— it was pro-
dropped in November 2020, as soon as the incident management center for
Microsoft Teams of the Ministry was operational and it was possible to request the registration or restitution of
those users who did not have access, as well as the creation of teams.”

4- Taking into consideration the detailed authorization process, the EOI JM started in fe-
February 2021 "a consultancy" of the non-corporate applications in use, taking into account
the "instructions and recommendations on the protection of personal data for centers
public teachers of the Community of Madrid”, in its September 2020 version.
finalized, in June 2021 it was presented to the General Directorate of Bilingualism and Quality of En-
teaching. Provide document 8 to (46 pages) "request for use of educational tools
outside the CCAA of Madrid" for the continuation of academic use of the platforms after

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/53

described in the document, among which the GS version “Fundamentals” is included
tals” to which the migration would occur.

The document indicates: ”The agreement entered into between the Co-
Community of Madrid and Google to include Google Workspace solutions, in its moda-
basic quality, within the catalog of complementary applications to EducaMadrid. Al care-
still have details of the aforementioned agreement, but taking it into account, we request
authorization to continue the use of Google WorkSpace for Education, based on
the sections described below. ·. The document is undated and bears the logo of the
EOI JM.

There is a section referring to the "use of the GS application with servers other than those of Edu-
caMAdrid", since 2019, because the Ministry gave courses and recommended the application
tion, students are used to using these tools, it is not necessary to learn
its use, is a complete suite with different integrated functionalities, not like that of Edu-
caMadrid, and "reasons why EDUCAMADRID tools do not cover our
necessities” mentioning among others: the lack of integration of the videoconferencing tool
ferences with the rest, the user experience and the online training platform through
of the class system is hardly usable, it lacks online collaborative office applications.
nea, lack of integration with online office systems of the virtual classroom in the application
“MOODLE”, as well as another section on the benefits of GS applications for education.
cation.
Indicates that the risk analysis of the treatments carried out in GS has already been carried out.

Data processed with GS includes name and surname and the class or group, related to the
"development of distance classes", does not allude to the use of academic management or the relationship between
the center and teacher-students, indicating that the use of teachers is to generate
formation of classes and association of students to classes.

In a table, it provides by columns on the "data processing operation by use of
GS", the "identified risks", the "implemented measures" and "observations", Thus, it appears:
 The legitimizing basis consists of "express consent".

He mentions the measures applied by GS as a provider of cloud services, alludes to as-
aspects of risk in the treatment in terms of transparency, group affected and type of
data, but these mentions, such as the "data location" or the "conservation period"
They refer to the GOOGLE page, they do not detail how they work or specify the measures
related to them in terms of guarantees for those affected.

It is indicated that the center "makes available to all students and teachers a
GS, whose use requires the express acceptance by the users, included in the document
minio @eoijesusmaestro.es”

“As a measure, migration to the GOOGLE WORKSPACES environment is foreseen Fundamentally
tals, in case of refusal to authorize the Enterprise version", although the agreement sus-
Crit is the “basic” version.

5- "The center temporarily adopted GOOGLE WORKSPACE for education, version
Standard in April 2021 to guarantee data processing in the Economic Area

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/53

European". “This without prejudice to the fact that already in August 2020, after the end of the privacy shield
ity, Google would have adapted the standard contractual clauses in the protection addendum
data (document 9) consisting of an informative email from GOOGLE to the EOI
subject: “GS/ Cloud identity data processing amendment updated to address the
nullity of the EU-US Privacy Shield” in response to the CJEU judgment of
07/16/2020", noting that from the console administration it may have been accepted
due to the updates that are carried out from time to time, and if it has not been adopted, it is cli-
than to accept them

"After all the actions taken, the only email accounts @eoijesusmaes-
tro.es still operational are those that correspond to members of the management team (7), departments
didactic elements (21) or other specific functions that are not covered in the platform.
ma from EducaMadrid. However, the internal rules of the center of December 2020 do not
establish that the personal data of those affected by COVID be directed to these accounts,
but only that the occurrence of the case and its completion be reported. The communicate-
planned distribution of the data of the affected person and classmates who could have been con-
close contact is done through class lists, which are documents that are kept
jan on paper”. "An example of correct use of this type of notice is attached, carried out
precisely by the claimant, and of the subsequent interaction, in which identification is avoided.
notify people” (document 10), email dated 02/24/2021, in which
mentions the matter of a student who tested positive, only referenced by the classroom and the language that
study.

6-As an assessment, it ends by indicating that "All the documentation was collected in a unified way-
pertinent authority operating in the centers and the necessary guidelines were established to
the immediately following academic year. This action was specifically taken to
all management applications used instead of ROOTS.”

“In the specific case of the Madrid-Jesús Maestro EOI, it was immediately verified that the
contract signed for GOOGLE WORKSPACE was in accordance with the purpose and formality
of the models that had been presented to the directors and had been discussed in the
dissemination sessions of the tool organized by the General Directorate of Bilingualism
and Quality of Education, since it intended to advance in the digitization of management
of the center and incorporated the necessary clauses and addendum to make the ga-
contributions provided.”

From the moment of the claim, an iterative and continuous process has been carried out
improvement of the organizational framework to ensure better data processing in accordance
with the GDPR. The determinations reached and the actions to improve compliance
Derivatives are not restricted to the area in which they start, but extend looking for their
fully effective throughout the educational structure. Just a few weeks after the re-
clamor, new standards of general application are published in all centers for the
adoption of external applications. These instructions represent a paradigm shift and
establish for the first time a detailed procedure for prior authorization by the
responsibility, as well as a centralized and non-distributed verification and documentation process.
buido.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/53

7-Provides as document 5 the "instructions for the use of applications other than those of the
Community of Madrid", which contains the reference to its publication on the page
madrid.org, instructions bearing the signature of 02/21/2020. It is indicated that "it must be established
procedure that requires requesting authorization from the Center for the use of these
Applications. A request for authorization will entail the evaluation of the application from the
point of view of information security and the consequent authorization or denial
by the Center"

“the design and restrictions on the contents that are going to be incorporated into the applications
nes, will take into account in the first place the privacy of personal data, and will include a
assessment of the need to dissociate or anonymize the information, especially
when there may be transfer of data to third parties or international data transfers.
All of this must be documented. The center must establish a procedure
so that the center does not use applications external to the Ministry without authorization.
express location of the address. “

"Once the use of an application has been authorized by the educational center, it shall
The justified use of the correspondences must be included in the Annual General Programming of the course.
teeth platforms or external applications, after checking that they comply with the
privacy policy required by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on Data Protection, de-
while incorporating clearly defined information on the treatments carried out, the
purposes of the same and their managers, as well as the location of the data, the
retention period, and guarantees in relation to its security. Such information must
be able to consult

It is convenient that the public centers of the Community of Madrid obtain the approval
for the use of external educational applications by the data controller,
that is, the competent General Directorate (primary, secondary education, etc.), with the assurance
advice of the Data Protection Delegate.

When the application is going to have a use that is not strictly educational, or when, even
being for educational use, data from special categories will be incorporated into it
(such as health or biometrics), the center must obtain the consent of
families and/or students regarding the use of said application. In any case, whether it is necessary
consent or not, the center must inform families and/or students about
everything indicated here”.

8-Provides as document 6 "Recommendations Centers uses of applications outside of
EducaMadrid”, which contains the reference to its publication on the madrid.org page,
instructions that bear the signature of 05/5/2020, with , "Madrid, April 2020", which has as
object, that "before the use of new technologies in classrooms, the need arises to adopt in
educational centers more robust security and privacy measures than those
have been applying up to now" He alludes to the importance of the use of "distance modality" as well
as their permanence after the return to normality as "substitutes for procedures
traditional methods for teaching", use of strictly essential data, avoiding
introduce subjective data, avoiding citing any other information such as health data,
that the director of an educational center is not responsible for the treatment, on the
educational applications, "educational centers must request prior to their use
the authorization of the person responsible for the treatment, and its authorization will entail the evaluation of
the application from the point of view of information security and privacy of users.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/53

personal information". After authorization, the center may approve its commissioning.
functioning. It indicates that "health or performance data should never be entered
school in clouds outside the organization, seeing the tools used
information provided by the person in charge”. It mentions the platform in a section
of the CCAA of Madrid, EducaMadrid, "provided with adequate measures of
security and in accordance with data protection regulations.

It contains, on the use of external educational applications, the same points referred to in the
"Instructions for the use of applications outside those of the Community of Madrid", in which
containing the reference to its publication on the madrid.org page, instructions that carry
signature of 02/21/2020”

9-Provide document 7: "instructions on the Protection of Personal Data for
public educational centers of the Community of Madrid 2021-2022”, version 2.0,
11/22/2021, which is a general guide on the processing of educational data in which
includes a section on "use of educational applications and platforms" in which it is indicated
that "In general, the use of platforms or tools is not authorized
educational purposes other than official digital management applications for purposes
administrative or management of educational centers, which must be carried out with the
official digital management applications and that requires students or their representatives
legal entities have the necessary access to also interact digitally in
the procedures in which they must intervene.”

10-In document 8 b: that does not bear a date, version or edition, nor its author,
referring in general to the "EOI Jesús Maestro Security Policies" of 38
folios.

SEVENTH: On 06/8/2022, it is agreed to open the practice period for tests,
practicing the following:

1. The claim filed and its
documentation, the documents obtained and generated during the admission phase to
processing of the claim, and the report of previous investigation actions that form
part of procedure E/02264/2021.

2. Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement of
start, and the documentation that accompanies them.

3. The defendant is requested to provide the following information or documentation requested:

How did the mail for professional relations work in EDUCAMADRID,
3.1)
in the EIO? Use that it had in relation to the management of teachers and other staff
of the EOI JM.

A response was received on 06/30/2022, indicating that: "In December 2019, all public centers
Governments of the Community of Madrid could use all EducaMadrid services, among
them professional mail, both for teachers and students. As a public center

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/53

The EOI Jesús Maestro had professional email available for the relationship with the management of
the teachers and the rest of the staff of the EOI Jesús Maestro.

At the date of assumption of functions of the new director of the EOI Jesús Maestro, 07/01/2019,
the implementation in the center of the use of EducaMadrid services, including mail
email in the domain @educa.madrid.org, was very scarce and merely testimonial. He
The bulk of professional relationships were carried out through paper mailboxes, and
occasionally through personal emails provided by teachers. In
Consequently, the new management of the center decides to avoid the use of personal addresses
due to the risks that this entailed and improve security conditions by adopting
tion of a common tool with the necessary guarantees. In a context of strong re-
rejection by teachers of the use of EducaMadrid tools (attempts to
use by claimants of their own personal addresses are documented
two in the allegations presented, document 3), the address of the center, in line with
with the Educational Project of the Center, and as was publicly stated in its PGA, he bet
for the adoption of the tools of Google Suite for Education, as a transitory solution
estuary."
3.1)
 Reason why it was not operational, or was not used as a management tool
professional email that EDUCAMADRID had for teachers at the EOI JM, in December
bre 2019. Date on which the EOI of Madrid began to indicate the lack of platforms
online to manage their functions. Report, if the General Directorates are responsible
You were aware of the implementation in December 2019 by the EOI of the application
GOOGLE SUITE, how did they find out and when, and if they offered more technical data or so-
on data protection regarding its implementation.

He states that "the functionalities of the EducaMadrid platform were, at that time,
much inferior to other standard tools in usability and operability. For example,
they did not support online cooperative work on the same document. mailboxes
emails were very small and the antispam filters hardly filtered any threats, which often
In turn, it was perceived as something that could generate greater risk than the use of tools.
corresponding industrial range. In the annex to the allegations Doc 08a – “Request
of use of educational tools outside the CCAA of Madrid" , the deficiencies are detailed
detected in EducaMadrid and the alternative solutions proposed together with the study of
its impact and form of adoption and use.

Currently, the EducaMadrid platform has been significantly reinforced, giving
solution to those situations.

“The Official Language Schools were taken into account from the very implementation
of the "Raíces" system, although the complex substitution of the previous institutional system, SICE,
by volume of centers, type of education and number of students, caused a delay in
its implementation, which mainly affected non-compulsory teachings,
among which are those offered by the Official Schools of Languages.

On the date of adoption of the tool by the school, in 2019, the centers did not
they had an obligation to communicate or request authorization to do so. All these procedures
These are progressively reinforced with the successive versions of the recommendations
and instructions to centers on data protection, which are listed under the question

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/53

correspondent. The Data Protection Delegation of the Territory Area Directorates
Rial is aware of the use of this tool through a query in February of
2020. After its analysis, it adopts the decision to treat it as a claim and initiates a
process that culminates in a letter in May 2020 from the DGESFP and RE to the management of the
educational center urging him to make an orderly transition to leave this he-
tool in favor of other corporate tools or approved as complementary.
As it cannot be otherwise, the transition must be carried out while maintaining the service
education and in the context of distance learning that occurred as a consequence of
the health crisis caused by Covid-19 and other implications and restrictions motivated
due to the state of alarm.
At that time, more information is also offered to all centers about adoption.
and measures for the implementation of Microsoft Office, having completed the corresponding agreement
with the then Ministry of Education and Youth, although this was not the case with respect to the
Google Suite tool, as the formalization of the agreement takes longer in this case. No
However, the General Directorate of Bilingualism and Teaching Quality, within its activities
promotion of the tool, it had already deployed in a sustained manner a
series of training actions for the management teams of the centers, some of them are
especially focused on compliance with the GDPR”.
Report which solutions the EDUCAMADRID application contained and offered in 2019
3.2)
for the administrative management of educational centers, and specifically the EOI of Languages Je-
sús Maestro, in terms of professional relationship teachers, center and student teachers. In-
form, later, which system was chosen over educational applications in the EOI, when
When the Ministry approved the agreement with MICROSOFT first, and with GOOGLE SUITE after
well.

“EducaMadrid is an educational platform, it is not an administrative platform for the centers.
ers, the administrative management of most of the centers is carried out through the application
tion ROOTS.

In the EducaMadrid Platform, there was only an administrative application for the
Interested parties may request access to "free language certification tests". The al-
The scope of this application only included the submission of applications electronically. Inter-
Naturally, lists were generated that the schools involved could extract and whose information
tion could be provided by the centers themselves to those interested. This app worked
during the academic year 19-20”.

“Once the necessary developments in RAÍCES have been undertaken, the EOI have started
started to use it in the 2021/2022 academic year, and have stopped using their own applications that
used for administrative management.”

It exposes the services that the educational platform EducaMadrid had in 2019, among
others, the following:

Professional Email for both teachers and students.

The Virtual Classrooms, virtual teaching and learning space for teachers and students in
where you can create courses with resources, forums, instant messaging, evaluate lessons,
tasks and activities, taking exams...

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/53

Services for the creation of Web Pages for personal spaces of teachers, de-
departments, classes, virtual communities and educational centers

The Cloud, which is a virtual hard drive where you can save and share folders and files that
allows collaborative office editing.

The Media Library, which is a space where all kinds of content can be stored
multimedia (videos, photos, audio, documents, etc.) to be able to share easily and
safe.

The Forms, which is a data collection service.

The Newsletters, which is a service to send relevant information in a
quickly and easily by saving the submission in a URL to access it later.

These services are fundamentally educational, only email has
also an administrative use for communication between the center and the teachers, and between the
own teachers. However, EducaMadrid did not contain and does not contain specific solutions
management cases (relational databases, concurrent access spreadsheets,
more organization and processing workflows, etc.). In short, the use of Edu-
caMadrid is geared towards teaching and administrative management has made available
location of the ROOT centers.

This drive to digitize the center was undertaken before the conventions were held.
corresponding children, which due to their high regulatory level were only held after the need
since the pandemic emerged. As already indicated and following the instructions of the
DGESFP and RE, the center began a gradual and orderly withdrawal from the use of the tool
Google Suite subscribed prior to the agreement, subsequently seeking its adequacy
the framework of the new agreement or even its complete authorization through an audit of
their information systems and the presentation of a request for use before the General Management
General of Bilingualism and Quality of Teaching. On the other hand, the use of Microsoft for Education
cation was only implemented within the framework of its specific agreement and its tools were used
They were used only in the educational field and, in general, for videoconferences”.

3.3) What relationship exists between the comprehensive educational management system of the Community
of Madrid RAÍCES, and EDUCAMADRID, and which system or application governs the administrative management
internal electronic treatment of the centers, in terms of teacher-center, teacher-
students, students center. Date of implementation in the EOI of Jesús Maestro del sistema
of Integral Educational Management RAÍCES and what relationship would it have with the facts object of the
claim.

“Raíces and EducaMadrid are different systems, with complementary scopes and orientations.
rias, management in the case of Raíces and education in EducaMadrid. These orientations of
each platform are maintained in the three areas of relationship (teachers-center, teachers-
res-students, school students). Each platform has its own identification credentials.
tion and each center or type of education could make a different use of them. The implant-
Raíces training at the Jesús Maestro center begins in November 2020, this being
school where the start-up of this computer application was addressed in a pilot way;
in fact, its establishment being generalized already at the end of that same academic year 2020/2021 in
the set of Official Language Schools. In that sense, this and other claims

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/53

highlighted the need to speed up the implementation schedules of the systems.
management units dependent on the General Directorate of Infrastructures and Services, and the
authorization procedures and use of other non-institutional applications, dependent
of the General Directorate of Bilingualism and Teaching Quality, as effectively
He has been doing and acting in each case.”

3.4)
Form of signing the EOI JM the contract with GOOGLE SUITE, version within the
contracted solution (Fundamental/Enterprise). Date. Copy of the signed contract and
addendums, if any, and how they arranged or configured to receive updates.
nes of the contracted versions. Inform if the EOI consulted if it could subscribe and accept
the use of what is derived from said contract with a hierarchical or functional superior for reasons
of the matter, and if there were previous regulations that dealt with this aspect in the Ministry.
If the EOI or the person in charge of the treatment carried out a previous study of the risks of treatment
data lie.

The response is limited to the signature made by the Ministry of Education on 06/10/2021, with
Google Spain, and to indicate that "together with its commission agreement, the
corresponding risk analyzes and impact assessments attached as DOC
1, 2 and 3 to the present writing.”

3.5)
Report on (when the events occurred, end of 2019) who decided what to apply
computer or management information to be used for internal academic use of class management in
an educational center such as the EOI JM, under what criteria were used, reports that were requested
taban or request, and information that is provided to teachers. Reports on protection
tion of data that are incorporated and if analyzes of risks of treatment and compliance are carried out.
regulatory compliance.

He responds that “When the tool was adopted in the EOI, it had not articulated a procedure
specific procedure that limits or directs the autonomy of organization and management of the
educational centers, enshrined in higher order legislation, nor were reports requested
by the General Directorates. Decisions in this area were still
the usual processes of autonomy in the educational sphere, with the participation of the Claus-
of Teachers, the School Council of the center and the Director. In the particular case of the
Official School of Languages, all these procedures were fulfilled and the adoption of the tool
This was dealt with in depth in the Senate on 12/13/2019, answering the questions
that were produced and also providing links to additional sources of information”

Provide a copy of the record of processing activities of "Management of students ma-
3.6)
enrolled in educational centers that provide non-university education”. Indicate if that
registration covers the wide range of treatments derived from the use in its day or in the present-
ity, in the EOI of GOOGLE SUITE, otherwise another definition and description of
another record of the operation more suitable with this computer solution.

It states that "it is located at: https://www.comunidad.madrid/gobierno/informacion-juridica-le-
legislation/data-protection#registry-activity-processing. In it it is indicated that the
The legal basis is article 6.1.e) of the GDPR "the treatment is necessary for compliance with
of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in
to the data controller. GDPR 6.1 a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/53

processing of your personal data for one or more specific purposes” Purposes of Treatment
Management of educational, complementary and extracurricular activities of students
enrolled in educational centers that provide non-university education” In transfer-
international data references “no”, although the DPIA need analysis included
yes.
It also provides the record of "Use by teachers and students, in the
exercise of the educational function, tools and non-corporate resources”, responsible:
"General Directorate of Bilingualism and Teaching Quality", Legal Basis "RGPD 6.1 e)
the processing is necessary for the fulfillment of a task carried out in the public interest
or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller” “Purposes of the
Treatment Provide students and teachers with online learning environments, as well as
such as communication tools (educational email, instant messaging,
etc.), collaboration (cloud, websites, forums, etc.) and the development of educational materials
(content manager)” Purposes of Treatment Provide students and teachers in-
online learning turnstiles, as well as communication tools (email
education, instant messaging, etc.), collaboration (cloud, websites, forums, etc.) and elaboration
elaboration of educational materials (content manager). Internal data transfers-
tional No. In security measures, only alludes to the ENS.

3.7) Yes, knowing the lack of tools due to the delay in the computer application
RAÍCES for the EOI, the person responsible for the treatment or co-responsibles, analyzed the application
GOOGLE SUITE information regarding security, operation and data transfer
data.
 
He alludes to the "difficulty" with which we find ourselves in the Community of Madrid and
that due to its population density there are currently around 1,800 educational centers
public captives and more than 80,000 teachers, which makes quick and agile management difficult. No
However, those responsible for treatment have acted with proactive responsibility and in
when it was detected, with the advent of the new European regulations, that educational centers
public were using computer applications such as GOOGLE SUITE, they adopted
the appropriate measures to formalize an order contract in accordance with article 28 of the
GDPR, once the risk analysis and the Impact Assessment were carried out, when affecting a
group of minors In this way, the Ministry of Education signs on 06/10/2021, a
Collaboration agreement with Google Spain for the use of Google Works services-
pace for Education in public centers of the Community of Madrid, through the account of
EducaMadrid email.

3.8)
In the official approval of the computer solution of the aforementioned GOOGLE SUITE, which
was contracted and published in the BOCM, it is indicated that: "It will correspond to the Ministry established-
Establish the limitations that users must abide by when using the services
offered by Google, which will be those that are inferred from the risk analysis of the treatment.
processing of personal data carried out by the Department”

It is requested that you provide a copy of the risk analysis referred to in the Agreement regarding
is related to the use of user accounts in GOOGLE SUITE that could affect
the information processed, storage and confidentiality when completing documents
ments and are sent through said medium for academic and student management.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/53

"Information related to the Risk Analysis and Impact Assessment carried out is attached.
prior to the signing of the Agreement as DOC 1, 2 and 3 already referenced before.
In addition, the link to the EducaMadrid page is attached https://www.educa2.madrid.org/
resources, where the provisions of the established collaboration agreement are complied with.
establishing the appropriate limitations of users when using the services offered
by Google, as well as the privacy policy in compliance with article 13 of the Re-
General Data Protection Regulation.
In the document GUIDELINES FOR THE USE OF GOOGLE WORKS SERVICES-
PACE FOR EDUCATION IN PUBLIC CENTERS OF THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID,
that was published on the Educamadrid website is clearly and concisely established
that all users with access to the services will comply with the following general conditions:
nerals:



The services and applications to which users will have access will only be used
strictly for educational purposes, not hosting in them any academic or
student progress in the educational system.



The “Drive” application, which allows storage, will be limited to educational purposes and
of teaching, not being authorized its use for other purposes such as administrative functions
or management. It should also not be used to host personal information not related to
directly with the educational or training activity, nor to house documentation with
effects on academic history (test scores, job grades,
etc.) or student progress in the educational system, as indicated in paragraph
former.
Google email services (Gmail) will be disabled for all

das user accounts, whatever the profile. It will be mandatory to use Edu-
caMadrid.

tions of the Platform, may not contain personal data.”

All the information that can be publicly visible, in any of the Applications.

About: "INSTRUCTIONS ON THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
3.1)
FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID", of the
Ministry of Education, Universities, Science and Spokesperson of the CCAA of Madrid, fe-
dates of the successive existing versions signed by the DPD, and what was or is the channel
established so that these instructions come to the knowledge of the educational centers.

“The first version is from September 2020 (DOC4), the second from November 2021
(DOC5), which was sent on January 21, 2022 to the AEPD as annex 07 in this
disciplinary procedure and the third version (DOC6) was carried out due to the request
of the AEPD to this Ministry of Education, Universities, Science and Spokesperson
on the occasion of the resolution of the disciplinary procedure PS00412-2020 to advance
Cuase the information on the recording of the sessions of the evaluation boards in the
schools. The latest version of the Instructions with new information incorporated-
given in section 11, was notified for dissemination among the different management units
and for publication on the respective web pages of the five Territorial Area Directorates.
story.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/53

Likewise, they were sent for notification to all their affiliated educational centers with the
so that from their address they communicate personally to all the members
of the Faculty and other members of their educational community who consider
necessary to inform, with the recommendation that they have them published in an accessible place.
ble, like the Virtual Classroom (DOC 7 to 16).”
From the document prepared by the DPD "USE OF OTHER APPLICATIONS
3.2)
A LAS DE LA COMUNIDAD DE MADRID”, versions that have been updated since their
approval to the present, what motivates the variations, and what fact or circumstance originated
the issuance of the first version. Date on which its publication on the web began. Additional-
mind, that other means were used to make the same known to the educational centers.

“This document was prepared by the Data Protection Delegation and published by
first time on our website on 02/13/2020 (DOC 17). On 04/23/2020, the
A second version was published, which is the one that remains published until now (DOC 18). Moti-
tive of the publication of the first version, as indicated in its first paragraph was the publication
cation of the REPORT ON THE USE BY TEACHERS AND STUDENTS
US OF APPLICATIONS THAT STORE DATA IN THE CLOUD WITH THIRD PARTY SYSTEMS
TO THE PLATFORMS, which gave rise to many consultations in the Delegation for the protection of
data, whose main answers were poured in this version. The second version was
related to the massive and free use that educational platforms provided to
the centers in full confinement due to the pandemic and whose use was recommended to comply
comply with the data protection principles of article 5 of the GDPR.”

No other means were used by the Delegation to publicize massively
this document, although reference was made to it in the consultations carried out by the centers
educational institutes, teachers or parents, related to the use of third-party applications. No
However, after the publication and dissemination of the first instructions included in this
matter in its section 6, it can be considered that the information contained in the document
It has been sufficiently disseminated by this other means.

Regarding the document approved on 06/4/2019, "Decalogue of good practices in the
3.3)
use of educational applications", which is requested to be sent with your signature, also inform
how it was disclosed to the educational centers and its existence was specifically notified to the EOI JM:

The document" was prepared in a joint collaboration between the General Directorate of
Bilingualism and Quality of Teaching and the Delegation of Data Protection. He
The document was not signed as it dealt with recommendations for the centers
very early in the application of the then, new regulations in
Data Protection. Dissemination was made through the Territorial Area Directorates so that
in turn, dissemination to all public educational centers in the Community of
Madrid. Attached as DOC 19.

3.4)
In response to the transfer, he provided a copy of Annex I, an undated document, titled
side "CLAIM REGARDING THE USE OF EMAIL AND PLATFORM"
FORMA G SUITE, ALIEN TO THE CORPORATE TOOLS OF THE COMMUNITY
DAD DE MADRID IN THE EOI JESÚS MAESTRO” of the DPD to those responsible for the treatment

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/53

ment, DGESFP and RES and to another General Directorate. (15 pages). It is requested to certify the faith-
date of said letter and the date of delivery to the addressees.

“This document was signed on April 6, 2020 and sent on the same date to
all those responsible for processing personal data in the Ministry, related
with the use of said tools, that is, the General Directorate of Bilingualism and Quality
of Education, the General Directorate of Infant and Primary Education and the General Directorate
Secondary Education, Vocational Training and Special Regime. It is accompanied by
signed document and referrals to recipients (DOC 20 to 24).”
3.5)
According to the allegations made, the determination of the guidelines for the use of the
platforms for educational purposes, the General Directorate of Bilingualism and Cali-
of Education, and the General Directorate of Secondary Education, Vocational Training
nal and Special Regime participates in determining the purposes of the treatment. Which one of
the two Directorates is the one that analyzes the risks of the applications in terms of protection
of data, evaluates the clauses that are subscribed and writes the instructions for those in charge
two data processing that are managed in, for example, GOOGLE SUITE.?

It states that "It corresponds to the General Directorate of Bilingualism and Quality of Teaching
dance analyze the risks of the applications in terms of data protection, assess the
clauses that are subscribed and write the instructions for those in charge of treatment.
cough. Likewise, it corresponds to write the guidelines of use for the users to whom it is going.
intended for use and published, and to the General Directorate of Secondary Education, Formation
tion Professional and Special Regime the application of the guidelines regarding the use of ap-
educational cations

3.6)

Provide a copy of the report of the Director of the EOI of 03/02/2020 detailing the
justification of the tools adopted and in particular the application to the contract prior to
signed by the center in November 2019 of the contractual clauses type guarantee
ladas by resolution of the AEPD of 06/22/2017.

Attached as document 25: "report on management and communication tools"
tion in the EOI Madrid Jesús Maestro", at the request of the Director of Territorial Area of Madrid
capital, dated 03/02/2020. It can be highlighted:
-“Management field: Unlike the educational field, all relationships and communication
that occur in the field of management belong to the professional or work domain, and
No students or minors are involved in them. Fundamentally, it is about assessing
the capacity of the center to adopt certain work tools, establish the
mandatory nature of its use within the framework of labor relations, and assess its suitability
for the organization as a whole.”
-"The personnel at the service of the administration have an obligation to interact electronically-
mind with it, also at the level of educational centers.” He cites article 14 of the LPCAP. “
educational centers have autonomy to establish their own procedures and systems.
more management, always within the mechanisms provided for this purpose and in compliance
of the laws." “the technical means deployed in the EOI of Madrid-Jesús Maestro form
part of the management solutions actively promoted by the Educational Administration
of the Community of Madrid, and that have been introduced with the necessary logistical support.”
“As public employees, we must attend in each case to the access and compliance system.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/53

documentation of the procedure established by the competent administration in its field of
performance."
-"The functionalities of EducaMadrid are primarily designed for educational use.
tive, between teachers and students, so its benefits are very insufficient
for efficient administrative management. For example, they do not provide a tool
unified office automation tool for the storage, access and collaborative editing of different
all types of documents. In general, given the diversity of administrative processes that are
carried out in the center, from the publication of information on the Internet to the management of
files or the completion of the most diverse information, it is not reasonable to
It is rare that all of them can be carried out from a single interface or unified management system. HE-
it will be necessary to have several systems, each with its specific user identifier
(which can sometimes provide an email account at the same time) and for your
particular application bit.
- "Within the autonomy of management within the framework of current legislation to prepare
approve and execute its own rules of organization and operation, the Organic Law 2/
2006 of education establishes this autonomy of the centers and article 132 establishes that
its approval is the responsibility of the Director. The educational project of the center includes litera-
The adoption of world-class tools is one of its organizational goals.
such as Google for Education and Microsoft Education”.
-"The motivation and suitability in the selection of the means deployed must be examined
to date.”” The Google Suite for Educational platform has been implemented worldwide.
dial and uses tools that are de facto business standards in each of its
fields. In recent years, its use in educational centers has been promoted by the Administration
Educational Tration of the Community of Madrid. Regarding data processing, compliance
Compliance with the directives and regulations is endorsed by the Spanish Protection Agency
of data. Finally, its implementation in the center has been carried out progressively
and accompanied by written and audiovisual technical support.”
-Reviews activities of the "Territorial Center for Innovation and Training" (CTIF) entity that
Its purpose is to carry out training activities aimed, preferably
mind, to teachers related to GS, since 2015 in holding courses of
GS in the educational field.
-Indicates that to access the applications offered by GS, for free, you have to start
perform a validation process," having to certify that we are an educational institution
nonprofit". "Regarding compliance with the GDPR, it refers to a resolution of the
AEPD of 06/22/2017, the information offered on its page, and other information on reduction
whendo (partner of GOOGLE FOR EDUCATION).
-"The user's email account in the domain eoijesusmaestro.es, is also the way to
uniquely identify in all G Suite system applications, and to discriminate and
give you access strictly to what you are authorized to do.” “They have not been created in this
user platform for students or minors. It is being used exclusively
within the scope of the organizational management of the center.", and considers that they do not imply
detriment to anyone, and represents a great leap in quality and an unquestionable improvement in the
school management capacity.

Explain in more detail the expression made in the allegations to the agreement in which
3.7)
distinguishes: "- Obtain the consent of users to facilitate digital resources,
differentiating institutional resources from Google WorkSpace for Education accounts.
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/53

cation.”, also providing a document that informs about the consent that
is requested.

"The application on the use of applications proposes to obtain the express consent of
part of teachers, students, after the delivery of the policies for the use of digital resources,
that collect the processing of your data, as well as the rights and duties to protect the
privacy from the rest of the academic community. For this, different formulas are established.
consent forms for workers and students for the use of Google WorkSpace
(DOC26), as they exist for the EducaMadrid resources. Also, for ease of use
of other digital educational resources in the EOI, a request form for
use, to guide the evaluation of the resource prior to its adoption and inclusion in the PGA
(DOC27).”

3.8)
In its response to the transfer of the claim, on 04/06/2021, it stated
Ron; “indicate that on March 30, the Director of the Official Language School of Ma-
drid-Jesús Maestro has communicated via email to this General Directorate that "For
its magnitude and that of the processes deployed for years, and as a possible case of re-
reference to others, the center has recently carried out a special advisory assignment
zada to internally audit all the uses of its information systems. This audit-
The estuary is underway and will finish soon”. It is requested to report on the incident
of this audit in the learning and educational management applications to be incorporated into the
EOI, and report if the hierarchical or functional superior or the data controller
all issued an assessment of said audit, if it has any role in it, and where it is
regulate this competition.

"The audit culminates with the presentation on June 24, 2020 (possibly 2021)
of a request for the use of third-party applications before the General Directorate of Bilingualism
and Quality of Teaching, with registration Ref: 49/309846.9/21. The audit affects the confi-
additional configuration of certain platform parameters and details, among others, procedures
Specific requirements for data handling (annex in allegations such as Doc 08b - Policies
of Security EOI Jesús Maestro). On the other hand, it should be noted that the competition for
managing these requests is regulated in the INSTRUCTIONS ON THE PROTECTION OF
PERSONAL DATA FOR PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL CENTERS OF THE COMMUNITY
DAD OF MADRID.”

In the response to the transfer, it is indicated that "on March 4, 2020, the Direc-
3.9)
Territorial Area Manager of Madrid Capital has sent this Delegation a report drafted
by the Director of the EOI, which explains and justifies the use of said platform and the
email accounts associated with it. It is requested that you provide that document written by the Di-
director of the EOI.

"The document is attached together with the remission by the Territorial Area Director
Madrid-Capital (DOC 28 and 29)" The first coincides with the already mentioned report of the Director
of the EOI JM, of 03/2/2020. The second is a letter from the Area address in which it sends
on 03/4/2020 to DPD "a referral of a report, from the direction of the EOI Jesús Maestro in the
that communicates the use of various GS applications and others to implement progressions
vely a multitude of processes with different sectors. Indications are requested on the im-
plications that could take the use of this application in the center.”
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/53

In allegations they indicated, "it is collected through the Territorial Area Directorate of
3.10)
Madrid-Capital report of the director of the Official School of Languages of Madrid-Jesús Maes-
tro, of 03/02/2020, where the justification of the adopted tools is detailed and, in part-
cular, the application to the contract previously signed by the center in November 2019 of
standard contractual clauses endorsed by resolution of the Spanish Protection Agency
tion of Data dated June 22, 2017", they are requested to provide the aforementioned report.
"This report is the same as the one requested in the previous section (DOC 28)"

3.11)
Inform if the DPD in application of article 36.4 of the LOPDGDD has carried out any
any action to assess a possible non-compliance, depending on the content of
their reports and the analysis of the situation and assessment based on the terms of the re-
complaints received from teachers of the EOI of Jesús Maestro, Madrid. what infraction
concrete?

“The assessment of possible breaches of the data protection regulations
is included in the report referred to in section 3.13), COMPLAINT ABOUT
THE USE OF EMAIL AND THE G SUITE PLATFORM, OTHER THAN
THE CORPORATE TOOLS OF THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID IN THE EOI JE-
YOUR TEACHER. However, no specific infringement was identified, although after
of the Delegation it was considered necessary for the data controller to urge the EOI
JM to abandon the use of the GS platform and informed those responsible (all
management centers of the Ministry with competences in the processing of personal data
by educational centers) about the risks of not being able to establish controls in
the platform to avoid exposing unencrypted personal data of all kinds to access by
from third parties, which the service provider considers legitimate (pages 8 to 12 report claim-
information on the use of email and the G SUITE platform other than the cor-
of the CCAA in the EOI Jesús Maestro”. Likewise, he advised and raised awareness
proactively so that measures were applied as soon as possible that would allow us to work
in accordance with the law in all educational centers.

3.12)
In their writings, they have stated in annex 1 of their response to the transfer that
"It corresponds to the General Directorates to determine the purposes and means to guarantee the
compliance with data protection regulations, as well as the management, coordination
dination and direction of their treatment. The exercise of said competence
obliges to adopt a data protection policy of common application in all centers
public educational centers, which must comply with all technical and organizational measures
initiatives imposed by the competent management center of the Administration, without prejudice
that each center decides to use external and complementary tools of the institutions
data, of whose use the person responsible must be aware so that he can assess whether the
It conforms to the security regulations and complies with the privacy policy established
established by the management center. They are asked to inform, as is previously undertaken to the institution
tauration of the tool foreign to the institutional "having knowledge", and what it is about
This leads to having knowledge, if there is a specific instruction about it.

"The requirement to notify the General Directorate of Bilingualism and Quality of
Teaching in the use of external applications has been progressively reinforced.
In 2019 the instructions still included it as a recommendation, although for April
As of 2020, the need for prior authorization had already been formally established. In the AC-
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/53

is regulated in the INSTRUCTIONS ON THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
LES FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID
(Version 2.0), of 11/22/2021.”

They end by emphasizing all the actions that have been carried out to advance in
compliance with the regulations on Data Protection.

 As an example, "from the beginning, the Data Protection Group was formed, made up of
by all the Data Protection Delegates, a representative of Madrid Digital and a re-
representative of the General Directorate of Service Quality, holding regular meetings
and making a great effort to apply the regulations on Data Protection in the
scope of the Community of Madrid. As proof thereof, it is attached as DOC 30 LA ME-
MORIA OF THE YEAR 2021 OF THE WORKING GROUP in which you can see the cons-
concern that has existed in the Community of Madrid and specifically in the Con-
Ministry of Education for the use of these applications (Google, Microsoft) and the risks
charges that they entail regarding the issue of international transfers. Furthermore, it is
It is necessary to refer to the actions that have been carried out by the Ministry of
Vice Presidency, Education and Universities, since we cannot forget that at the moment
When the current regulations came into force, the educational centers had been hiring their own
educational applications since the regulations enable them and they had the capacity to contract
tar and have management autonomy, in addition to the fact that, as is well known by the AEPD
the directors of the educational centers were responsible for the processing of their data and thus
was declared in the old Data Protection files. Therefore, they were their own
GOOGLE representatives who went to the educational centers and signed directly
Mind with the directors of the educational centers contracts of educational tools.

Thus, when the current Data Protection Officer was appointed, she encountered the challenge
to modify this practice that had been carried out for years. First of all, it is proce-
declared the General Directors as controllers based on the
matter of the educational center and therefore those in charge of signing the commission contracts.
A great effort is being made to train all teachers to be aware of
of this change, but it is necessary to convey the difficulty due to the volume of which we are
We are talking about since it is about 1,800 public centers and more than 80,000
teachers

"highlight all the actions that have been carried out by those responsible for treatment-
and the Data Protection Delegation with the aim of raising awareness, training and in
definitively comply with the regulations on Data Protection:

A website has been created exclusively on Data Protection for

publicize the matter, Instructions on Data Protection, Reports, Models... everything
to help the daily management of educational centers. https://dpd.educa2.madrid.org/
In the 2019-2020 academic year, the first PROTECTION INSTRUCTIONS were prepared.

TION OF DATA FOR EDUCATIONAL CENTERS to clarify queries from the centers
educational and above all to give regulatory coverage to the use of educational applications,
since it had never been regularized in such a concrete way or by the Community of
Madrid not even by the AEPD. Instruction that are modified and improved at each
academic course.

I lie.

 Numerous advisory reports to controllers have been produced.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/53

A generic Data Protection mailbox has been created in which advice is given

to an average of 700 emails per year presented by families of centers, responsible for
treatments and students, among others…
The hours of training in Data Protection have increased considerably,

since in this academic year the Data Protection Delegate has participated for the first time
first time in the course of trainee officials (teachers), courses have been held in the
training centers for teachers, courses aimed at educational inspection, there are two
courses in the training plan for public officials of the Community of Madrid in ma-
subject in Data Protection. And currently we find ourselves with the challenge of carrying out the
Digital competence program for teachers in which it has been established by the Direc-
tion of Bilingualism and Teaching Quality the obligation to take at least two
hours in Data Protection to all teachers in the Community of Madrid (remember
which are more than 80,000 teachers).

-"the filing of the disciplinary file is requested since the res-
proactive responsibility of data controllers being aware of the path
that remains to be done and also being very aware of the difficulties with which we
we find."

4) It is requested to the Labor Court 6 of Madrid, c/ Princesa 3 planta 2, fundamental rights
XXXX/2021, plaintiff B.B.B. (with the name of C.C.C. there is one of the claims
that sign the claim of this procedure Ps/286/2021) against "Consejería
of Education, Universities, Science and Spokesperson" that requested this AEPD on 01/19/2022
copy “of file processed for complaint of violation of the LOPD against D.D.D. of
12/29/2020”, with a response from this AEPD of 01/26/2022.

In order to analyze whether the matter pending in that Court is related to the
disciplinary procedure processed by this SGID, being able to influence it, it was requested
report if the aforementioned matter is still pending, the procedural situation in which it is found, and if
would have been resolved, a copy of the same. If it has not been resolved, a copy of the complaint
court filed.

A response was received dated 07/07/2022 indicating that "the procedure is pending
resolution on question of jurisdictional competence”. Submit a copy of the claim to
the Court, of 12/23/2021, in which it is indicated that a lawsuit is filed for infringement
of the Law on prevention of occupational risks and violation of fundamental rights,
against the Ministry of Education and Youth of the CCAA of Madrid, and the person of the
Director of the EOI as well as two other people whom he identifies as Inspectors of
Education. Among other labor-related issues, it informs the claim
submitted to the AEPD, reproducing part of it, indicates that the director of the EOI
He left his post at the end of the 20/21 academic year. The claimant requests compensation for the
damage  (...).

EIGHTH: On 08/22/2022, the resolution proposal is issued as follows:

"That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection directs a sanction
of warning to the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, UNIVERSITIES, SCIENCE AND
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/53

SPOKESMAN of the CCAA OF MADRID, with NIF S7800001E, for a violation of the
Article 32 of the GDPR, defined in article 83.4 a) of the GDPR, and in article 73.f) of the
LOPDGDD.”

Against them, dated 09/06/2022, the defendant provides:

to)

Contracts signed by the Management of the EOI-GOOGLE SUITE:

Yo.

"online contract of adherence to G Suite for Education" (Doc. 01
- 2019 07 G Suite for Education - Online agreement), in English, only
the date 07/26/2019 is printed, it is an online model in which there is no
the signing parties are not seen, nor are their names mentioned or
identification, with the following notes:

-with GOOGLE IRELAND LIMITED,
- effective agreement from the moment the "I accept" is pressed by the client,
"If you do not have legal authority to bind the client, do not accept
the click button”
-GOOGLE will provide the services in accordance with this agreement
and the SLA (service level agreement of GOOGLE
GOOGLE will provide the customer with an administrator account to
use in managing end-user accounts and other
Service features. The customer must manage the accounts
of end users with the administrator console and the
administration tools and determine the services to
provide to end users.
-Point two governs the "data processing amendment"- Data
Processing Amendment: “establishes the rights and obligations of
the parties in relation to the processing and security of the Data
of the Client by virtue of this Agreement…” Likewise, the
course to update or modify the amendment, among which are
find: conform to the regulations either by directive of the regulator,
compliance with an order or sentence or comply with the norm. TO THE
Customer information is provided through the email address of
notification or management console
- The customer acknowledges and accepts that Google is not responsible for the
internal management or administration of the messaging system
Customer email or messages.
“Client Administrators have the ability to access,
monitor, use or disclose data available to Users
within End User Accounts via the Console
Management and/or the Management Tools.
Customer will obtain and maintain all consents
necessary from End Users to allow:
(a) such Customer access, tracking, use or disclosure; and
(b) to Google to provide the Services in accordance with this
Agreement.
3.5 Unauthorized Use. The client will make every effort
reasonable to prevent unauthorized use of the Services, and to
terminate any unauthorized use. The client will notify

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/53

immediately to Google about any use of or access to the Google Services.
those who are aware.

In the definition of "Services" there is a link that leads to a summary of
GOOGLE services, now called WORKSPACE and the
GOOGLE SUITE FOR EDUCATION specifics, then
GOOGLE WORKSPACE FOR EDUCATION FUNDAMENTALS,
free edition, differentiating it from the “STANDARD” version, which is
an update that carries an additional cost and version from
which "includes the configuration of the data region policy
for the main data within the Customer Data for
certain Services, advanced security controls, analytics
improved and Google Workspace Migrate.”, also different from the
edition, PLUS, formerly “Enterprise for Education”. It indicates that it is
composed of the services that are mentioned in GOOGLE
WORKSPACE, among those related to the claim:

-GoogleDocs", "Google Sheets", "Google Slides" and "Google For-
ms" are web-based services that allow users to
end rivers create, edit, share, collaborate, draw, export and
embed content in documents, spreadsheets, presentations
tions and forms

-"Gmail" is a web-based email service
that allows an organization to run its mail system
email using Google systems. It provides the
ability to access an end user's inbox
from a compatible web browser, read mail, compose, reply
ponder and forward mail, search for mail, and manage mail to
through tags. Provides spam and virus filtering, and per-
allows administrators to create rules for handling messages
that contain specific content and attachments or route
messages to other mail servers. The rules can be
configure by group or by Client (all domains).
Besides. Customers will receive 100TB of storage in
total for Google Drive, Google Photos, and Gmail combined into
all end users

ii.

  the “Data Processing Amendment” G Suite
“version 2.2.” G Suite Terms of Service – G Suite (1)(eng)), the defendant calls it: (Doc.
02 - 2019 11 02 It is an online model in which the signatory parties are not seen, nor are they
mention their names or identification, with the following notes:

In point 5, data processing is indicated as described in the
treatment in annex 1, and there may be one of the roles, that of
that GOOGLE is a customer treatment manager of
data protection if the European data protection law is

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/53

applies to the processing of customer data. In point 5.2.2
“scope of treatment”

In section 10.2 there is information on the transfer of
data.
Section 12 on Data Protection Equipment in the
cloud; treatment records

Appendix 1 "objects and details of data processing", on 2
"Security measures"

iii.

  standard contractual clauses (Doc. 03 - 2019 11 02 G Suite Terms of

Service – G Suite (2)(Eng.)).

It provides a model contract "standard contractual clauses",
"in charge", for the purposes of article 26.2 of the Directive
95/46 for the transfer of personal data to those in charge of
treatment established in third countries that do not ensure a
appropriate level of protection, identifies the parties as
data exporter and GOOGLE LLC, importer. The document
indicates that the parties have previously signed an agreement and a
APD. It also refers again if the contracting party guarantees that
has full authority to bind the entity, to
link as “data exporter”, data exporter, Clause 5
establishes the agreement and guarantees of the data importer.

Appendix 1 lists the categories of data that are
transferred, the scope of the treatment that will be subject to the
purpose of processing, to the specific period in which it is processed
providing for the deletion of the data after the expiration of the
term of service
Appendix 2 describes the technical security measures and
organizational measures implemented by the importer, which can be
modified from time to time.

iv.

Copy of confirmation email sent by GSuite, "which accredits the
The above is valid from 07/26/2019” (Doc. 04 – GSuite registration confirmation email). HE
It is an email from "The G SUITE TEAM, address Google, to the EOI JM on 07/26/2019, which
welcomes you as "administrator" to GS Education, free version, showing the
EOI GOOGLE account username

v.

saw.

 Doc. 05 – “Updated Google data policy that confirms the receipt of updates

of the security policy.

It is an email from 10/30/2019 from GOOGLE to the EOI,
administrator appearing in matter update of the DPA. "HE
recommends that you review and accept the update in the console
Google administration”

Doc. 06 – “Licensing configuration that accredits the implementation of the version

Education Plus (later renamed to Standard). “

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/53

Provides printing of a console menu screen
Administration in which no date is seen and the sample of
configuration of user licenses of the EOI of Madrid. In it
section “automatic granting of licences, figure “STANDARD”,
and in a tab that appears to mark "Assign licenses",
consists of GOOGLE WORKSPACE FOR EDUCATION PLUS-version
ancient-

vii.

Doc. 07 – “Data Regions, which includes the limitation of data processing to

Europe."

In a screen print similar to the one in the previous section,
see “data regions policy” with “Europe” checked.

b)
It states that the domain of EducaMadrid was not capable of providing within
your domain addresses for the "21 departments didactic or other government positions or
Administration, vice secretary, vice director, etc.” for what were "these addresses the
that continued to be used temporarily and residually after the cessation of widespread use of the
platform", which was carried out, at the "beginning of the 2020-2021 academic year".

c)
About the first fact tested, it indicates that automatic forwarding to addresses
regular users did not rule out redirection to the EducaMadrid domain itself,
address to which it was redirected by default, assuming that the user "had it"
effectively configured and to use" Before the contrary, it was redirected by default to the email
@educa.madrid.org for all those users who had it effectively configured and
to use. On the other hand, the use of e-mail was not prevented or discouraged in any way.
EducaMadrid for applications offered directly by the Ministry. The
alternative addresses simply gave access to a different set of applications
and complementary services originally implemented in the area of the educational center.

d)
On the creation of user accounts for employees by your
administration, although an initial simplicity of name and surname was offered, this was
configurable and the eventual change was offered, not making any request in that
sense.

and)
 Through the mail, in the procedure established for the communication of cases
COVID, the identity of the student was not requested in any case through the email, but only
the occurrence of the case, as they consider is clear from document 10 that already appears in
allegations.

They provide document 8, a copy of the Senate meeting on 12/13/2019, in which
answered questions about the tool and abounding in documents that had been
sent previously, According to the reading of the minutes, it is spoken in "the turn of prayers and
questions”, different people who speak, expose:

- "dissatisfaction with the use of Google products in an educational center",

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/53

  -Another teacher “also asks about this use and, specifically, who works as
administrator of the new mail accounts”. Likewise, another person -“raises the
need to respect data protection regulations”.
- a person asks about the use of ROOTS, which does not seem that the administration is going to
implement soon
"In this regard, the director responds that the use of Google Suite is an approved solution and
already promoted for years by the General Subdirectorate of Programs of
Innovation and that the administration of email accounts, which must be used
exclusively professional, it corresponds directly to the center.”

-document 9 (EOI address note of 12/13/2019, title "mail addresses and portal
web” from which the digital transformation is transcribed:

“…The use of a user account based on a home domain,
eoijesusmaestro.es, which gives access to that information and procedures that are restricted
no longer to the staff of the Community of Madrid (as it would be with educa.madrid.org), but
specifically to the staff of this school, is one more step on that path. All these
processes will be collected in the new internal web portal, and that will make us more agile and
it will make us function better once we are filmed. There will also be a directory
to facilitate the consultation of addresses. And a system to give the parts of
maintenance and that it can be effectively tracked, and a mechanism to notify
to the secretariat situations such as reclassifications due to diagnostic tests and others. Also
it is more professional in terms of institutional image, and we should not aspire to less.
For these purposes, there are several platforms from different companies in the cloud; between them
both Microsoft and Google have special programs for schools. In
In particular, the Google Suite platform (Gmail, Drive, etc.) has begun to be used.
although in the future we may adopt Microsoft (Office 365) for some
needs."

-In document 10, they provide information prior to the use of the account, "which includes the
information displayed by the platform prior to accepting the use of the account for each
one of the teachers.

Regarding the decalogue, the inclusion in EducaMadrid of the pages or websites of the
F)
centers, based on the instruction of the Vice Ministry of BOCM 05/03/2004, it is not
unequivocally establishes this requirement for communication by email
“Educa Madrid”,

NINETH:
documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

 Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the

PROVEN FACTS

1) Complainants, professors of the EOI Jesús de Madrid, Maestro (EOI JM), complain because
individual professional email accounts are created for teachers and the rest of the
workers for use in academic-administrative management. "The mailing address
email will be used as a personal identification credential and access to the pages
of the center and in the different procedures that are articulated” (Reg. Reg. Interior
12/20/2019). They were given instructions by the Directorate to use it for
internal procedures such as student reclassifications, receiving information about
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/53

classroom rules, instructions on mobility due to COVID restrictions, communication from
incidents to the technical or maintenance service of the school, or procedure to communicate
students with COVID, to give some examples. Figure as an example, an email from a
teacher of 02/06/2020, who asks not to be forced to activate the aforementioned user account
created (final annex 5) from your hotmail.com address. to one of @eoijesusmaestro.es.

Previously, it was available to all the staff, the "personal and
institutions within the platform of the Department of Education, at educamadrid.org.”,
institutional tool created by the Department that also included messaging
snapshot, virtual classrooms, forms and online survey, among others. When the account is created,
GS, is configured with automatic forwarding to the usual addresses of the users.

The claimants also consider that the creation of this GS account was not necessary
because they had the institutional EducaMadrid.

2) According to the privacy policy of GS, "the administrator can access all the
stored emails or determine the person who can access the account data
(Annex 16).” "The claimants requested information in this regard that was not answered, although
They do not provide a copy of it.” The defendant reported in this proceeding that such access
would be possible, and might be necessary, to meet the legal requirements of the
administrative or judicial authority, with strictly limited use that is also registered in
the GS administration console.

3) GS for education, which changed its name to GOOGLE WORKSPACE for
education, is a service package of the cloud-based Google suite (saves the
data on GOOGLE servers), which allows the collaborative editing of documents and the
instant communication from any device and place. Among other services
provides those for the web email service Gmail. GS digital services
for education are linked to an email account associated with domains
of educational institutions, normally owned by the Ministry of Education as
responsible for the treatment, which is the one that creates a domain for the management of these
accounts bringing together all educational centers. In the case of the EOI JM, the
domain @eoijesusmaestro.es for the management of these accounts, being its administrator the
which requests the creation of professional accounts for each end user, as an example:
nombreprofesor.apellido@eoijesusmaestro.es, which the defendant provided in allegations to the
initiation agreement, annex 3.2
To access the services and log in to any of the applications or services
that are understood in Google SUITE for Education, its home is accessed through the
assigned email account and password provided by GS.
The creation of the account supposes the acceptance of the terms and conditions of the service
contracted online by the EOI on . It will be the administrator of the account (address of the EOI JM),
the one that configures the accounts, the administration console and grants the service to the
persons, modifies or eliminates permissions to users, as contained in the privacy policy
GS privacy. Access to each person's address is produced by entering

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/53

username and password that was sent to each person, and that they could modify. the setting
Effective up and running of the system occurred on 12/1/2019.
 

In response to the proposal, various documentation related to the
contracting of GS by the EOI Management resulting in the way of contracting the
GS service for education was online on 07/26/2019, creating the account
administrator. On 10/30/2019, GOOGLE sent an email to the EOI to update
Subsequently signing the data processing amendment -DPA in English- that
regulates the rights and obligations of the parties in relation to the treatment.

Among the conditions it is established that "the client acknowledges and accepts that GOOGLE is not
responsible for the internal management or administration of the electronic messaging system of the
client or messages”.

For the transfer of data outside the European Economic Area, the EOI signed a
standard contractual clause adopting the position of data exporter, including the
references of guarantees and security mentioned in said clauses.

4) In the internal regulations of 12/20/2019 of the EOI JM, it was indicated that the
The center will provide all assigned personnel with an individual email address and
non-transferable for your personal use, and that the same address will be used as a credential
personal identification and access to the internal pages of the center and to the different
procedures that are articulated, being applicable article 14.2 e) of the LPCAP.

5) The address of the EOI of JM, had established a protocol (copy version 12-12-2020)
in case "someone presents compatible symptoms while at school", (Annex 15) to
confirmed cases of students with COVID, including the creation of the person in charge
"COVID coordinator" that involved the communication of the student to the Coordinator (also
reincorporation including the addresses of director and deputy secretary) through
email addresses (the reinstatement will be notified to the COVID coordinator) with a copy to the
direction and to the Vice-secretary, which without being assessed, supposes a transmission of data of
special character

6) On 02/17/2020, a claimant sent the DPD a "query" for the creation and
assignment of the account "teachers demand to use their EducaMadrid email, and yet
they cannot do it because the system does not allow it” (Annex 6). Previously, there were already
emails about non-compliance with the obligation to activate "an email to my
name that has been opened without my consent” (02/06/2020). On 02/19/2020, the DPD
responded that "the person responsible for the treatment is the General Directorate of Education
Secondary, Vocational Training and Special Regime", (DGESFP and RES) "the director of the
center that does not have powers over the decision of the purposes in terms of
data protection is assuming a responsibility behind the back of the person in charge”, and that
with the use "of tools outside the corporate ones, control is lost over the
processing of personal data, as well as on compliance with the regulations in the
use of the data and the security measures that must be applied”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/53

Faced with the same type of "consultation" it was produced by another group of teachers as shown in
annex 8 of the claim, on 02/27/2020 (annex 8), obtaining as a response that of the
DPD, - annex 9- of 02/21/2020, entitled: "USE OF APPLICATIONS FOREIGN THAN THE
OF THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID", reiterates that a Director of an educational center is not a
governing body with decision-making capacity on the processing of personal data,
noting that "About educational applications for learning: "The centers
Prior to their use, they must request the authorization of the person in charge of the
treatment.", and the procedure must be established (deducing that as of the date of the
facts, Nov 19 did not exist the same). The request will deal with evaluation of the application
in its security aspect, and in aspects such as amount and type of data that is
incorporate, dissociation of data when they are processed by third parties or involve transfers
international, data privacy, all processes to be documented. Authorized
its use will be reflected in the General Annual Programming of the Center.” In addition, the DPD adds
that an educational application is never used for corporate data and
administrative with legal effects, having to go to the "computer applications of
management".
Educational centers when they use external educational platforms are only justified
when they have not been made available to the centers, means or adequate tools
and equivalents and will require the authorization of the General Directorate of the Ministry
authority, which must establish a procedure for the sake of legal certainty that
prevent the use of those that have not been expressly approved”.

"It is convenient that the public centers of the Community of Madrid obtain the go-ahead
for the use of external educational applications by the data controller,
that is, the competent General Directorate (primary, secondary education, etc.), with the
advice of the Data Protection Officer.”
The request will entail:

to. The evaluation of the application from the point of view of information security -
This requires design and constraints on the amount and type of data to be
incorporated into the applications, which will take into account in the first place the privacy of the
personal data, and will include assessing the need to dissociate or anonymize the information,
especially when there is transfer of data to third parties or international transfers of
data. All of this must be documented.

b. The privacy of personal data.

c. Once authorized, the center will be able to approve its "commissioning" and its
incorporation into the ANNUAL GENERAL PROGRAM (PGA) with the detail of the use and
the personal data that will be affected

It is also indicated that the educational center cannot by itself sign an agreement or
service provision contract with the owner of the application, and who will be responsible
of the treatment, which must validate the use of third-party platforms or applications by
part of the centers, and an agreement or contract must be signed where said
General Directorate as data controller and as manager; of this the company
provider,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/53

-Although the employees are not expressly alluded to, it is also alluded to that the platforms
must comply with the privacy policy, and information must be incorporated by the center,
clearly defined about the treatments carried out, the purposes of the same and their
responsible, as well as the location of the data, the retention period, and the
guarantees regarding your safety.
The GS tool was discussed in the EOI JM Senate on 12/13/2019, out of order
of the day, in requests and questions, several teachers questioning the solution
GS that were left unattended.

Union representatives also formulated specific claims on the matter to
the Directorate of the Territorial Area of Madrid capital on 03/1/2020 annex 10.

7-On 04/06/2020, the DPD prepares a report "regarding the use of the GS platform for
administrative management, as well as the use of non-corporate emails associated with said
platform", which sent (ANNEX 13) to the DGESFP and RES, and this transferred on 05/6/2020 to the
EIO Director. It indicates that you stop using third-party services such as GS and its
associated email accounts, being a risk to the security of information for not
The data must be hosted on secure servers in the EducaMadrid environment.

8-According to the defendant, the DGESFP and RES, is responsible for the treatment: "Management of
students enrolled in educational centers that provide non-university education.
while the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF BILINGUALISM AND QUALITY OF
ENSEÑANZA -DGB and CE- is in charge of designing innovation programs for the
improvement of the quality of school teaching and for the development of guidelines for use
of the computer platforms, both those of common use or corporate, as well as the
external or non-corporate of the educational centers and computer systems linked to the
teaching learning and updating”, including the development of guidelines and instructions
for the use of educational platforms other than corporate ones. On 06/24/2021, the EOI
JM submitted to the DGB and CE, " "application for the use of educational tools outside of the
CCAA of Madrid" in accordance with the use of third-party applications in the
INSTRUCTIONS ON THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA FOR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID (Version 2.0), of
11/22/2021

On the other hand, the signing of the treatment order contract would correspond to the DGB
and CE, as well as the risk analysis of the applications in terms of data protection,
evaluate the clauses that are subscribed and write the instructions for those in charge of
treatments. Likewise, it is responsible for drafting the guidelines of use for users to
those for which its use is intended.

9.- The data of the corporate email address that was assigned to the professors and
employees of the EOI JM for the management of the administrative affairs of its development
through GS are not related to any record of activities
of treatment declared by the defendant, considering that they do not correspond to the
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/53

educational or learning purposes declared in the record of processing activities
of "Management of students enrolled in educational centers that teach non-
universities” (responsible for the treatment of the GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF EDUCATION
SECONDARY, VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND SPECIAL REGIME-DGESFP and RES-), nor
with the legitimizing basis of the treatment of this, which would be that of article 6.1.e) of the RGPD
“the processing is necessary for the fulfillment of a task carried out in the public interest
or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller. GDPR 6.1 a)
the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data for one or
various specific purposes” Purposes of Treatment Management of educational activities,
complementary and extracurricular activities of students enrolled in educational centers that
teach non-university education” In international data transfers “no”, if
Well, in the EIPD need analysis, it said yes.

This, without prejudice to the fact that the work activity carried out with the GS tool, for the
education, email may be included in another or other treatment activities
and that the Public Administrations must

10) In a May 2020 report from the DPD, annex 18, on the use of forms
interactive Google forms type for registration procedures for students of the 20-21 academic year,
advises against the use stating that there is no custom treatment contract, no
there is a risk analysis for the privacy and security of the information, and the content
of an administrative nature must always reside on corporate servers.

11) The Deputy Director of the EOI, on 11/16/2020, -Annex 17 of the claim-, sent a
statement stating that GS was no longer in effect, it would no longer be available
for the teachers of the center and the accounts that still
they existed. It alludes in one of the paragraphs to the "instructions and recommendations on
Protection of Personal Data for public educational centers of the Community of
Madrid of 09/08/2020 that contemplate that in the management of teaching activity through
use of educational tools or platforms, centers must refrain from using
non-corporate educational applications or platforms or not considered by the Ministry
as complementary, which affects GS.

12) The RAÍCES and EducaMadrid platforms are different systems as with scopes and
complementary orientations, administrative management, in the case of RAÍCES, and educational
goes to EDUCAMADRID. These orientations of each platform are maintained in the three
spheres of relationship (teachers-center, teachers-students, student-center). Each platform-
ma has its own identification credentials.
In the Official Schools of Languages, the integral system "RAÍCES", used for the management
academic and initially used in compulsory education, could not be deployed in
the course 20-21 in the EOI, delaying its application. The implementation of RAÍCES in the center
Jesús Maestro begins the pilot program in November 2020, generalizing its
establishment already at the end of that same course 2020/2021 in the set of EOI.

13) The DPD signs a document on 04/06/2020 (1 in the transfer) that addresses those responsible
of the treatment: "complaint about the use of email and the Google platform
Suite outside the corporate tools of the Community of Madrid at the school
oficial de idiomas Jesús Maestro", which indicates, among other aspects, that it should be avoided as far as
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/53

possible the use of e-mail from non-corporate e-mail accounts,
avoiding, for example, those provided by GOOGLE, since when passing through the server,
copy remains. When submitting personal information within the organization itself, and if
there would be no other choice, he recommends encrypting the information, considering that "the center
educational is not entitled to replace corporate email accounts with others
external, not even as a complement ""The educational center must not put into use
applications or platforms outside the corporate ones without the person in charge having been able to
verify the adequacy of the regulations and the previously established privacy policy”

14) The defendant published in the BOCM of 06/24/2021, the Collaboration Agreement of
06/10/2021, between the Community of Madrid and GOOGLE IRELAND LIMITED, to contribute to
improving digital competence in the educational field through the use of WORKSPACE
FOR EDUCATION, basic version, which highlights:

- It is configured as a complement to the EducaMadrid corporate tools of the
Counseling, as tools that integrate information and communication technologies
tion in the educational process, through the conditions agreed between the parties in the
license and provision of services implemented in the treatment manager contract.
-It indicates that the person responsible for the treatment has carried out a risk assessment with the
collaboration of the person in charge of treatment.

-“The services and applications to which users will have access will be used
solely for educational purposes, not hosting in them any academic or
student progress in the educational system

- Google email services (Gmail) will be disabled for all
user accounts, whatever the profile. It will be mandatory to use the EducaMa mail-
drid.
-All the information that can be publicly visible, in any of the Applications
of the Platform, may not contain personal data."
-The services are regulated by:
“— The TERMS OF SERVICE, which are included as Annex II to the Agreement, and which are
They will also be published in EducaMadrid.
— The DATA PROCESSING ADDENDUM, Annex III, which includes Contractual Clauses
Type, and that Google will allow the Ministry or an independent auditor designated
by the Ministry to carry out audits by reviewing the Safety Documentation
dad.
15) The EOI JM, once the Agreement with Google was signed, presents, in accordance with the pre-
seen in the "instructions and recommendations on data protection for data centers
public public teachers of the Community of Madrid" in writing of 06/24/2021 to the DGB
and CE a report and "Request for the use of educational tools outside the CCAA of Ma-
Madrid", among them GS indicating in his opinion the deficiencies of EducaMadrid and the advantages of
GS.
The defendant adds that the functionalities of the EducaMadrid platform were for that
so much inferior to other standard tools in usability and operability. No

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/53

supported online cooperative work on the same document, mailboxes
emails were very small and spam filters hardly filtered any threats.
15) The defendant did not provide a risk analysis made in advance of the collection of the
data for the use of the email address in the EOI JM of Madrid, in order to
internal academic management and teaching of classes by teachers and for the use of the
rest of personnel, ignoring the technical and organizational measures that are
implanted tending to guarantee the security and guarantee of the interested parties.

16) In the DECALOGUE OF GOOD PRACTICES IN THE USE OF EDUCATIONAL APPLICATIONS,
TIVAS, approved on 06/04/2019 by the DGB and CE and the DPD, disseminated to educational centers
it was indicated:

"Personal data can only be stored on platforms of the competent Ministry.
to)
try on education. When it is necessary to use other technologies, it is guaranteed
The anonymization of the data stored on the students and that generated by them will be
ren”

"Each center will agree in the PGA (Annual General Programming) the applications
to)
that will be used during the school year, in the specific ICT section, once
analyzed the privacy policies of said applications, guaranteeing compliance
of the regulations on Protection of educational application", surely it means "in pro-
data protection”. "The institutional website of the educational center must be hosted on the platform
EducaMadrid and email communications will be made through the
EducaMadrid accounts, as established in the BOCM of May 3, 2004, "from
the start-up of the EducaMadrid Portal, the institutional web pages of the centers
public educational centers and services dependent on the Department of Education of the Co-
Community of Madrid will be hosted at the URL that said Department provides for this purpose.
to.”

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of 5712, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

II

42/53

GOOGLE SUITE for Education, GS (renamed GOOGLE WORKSPACE for
education, GW), is a specific technological solution of the suite, which contains a
suite of communication, productivity, collaboration and security tools
linked to learning in education. Google provides these software services
as a cloud service. Users can access the different tools at
through a browser or through applications installed on mobile phones and
devices. GS is a suite of cloud-based services from the Google suite,
(allows access from different devices that have internet access) that
enable collaborative document editing and instant communication from
any device and place and that gained prominence as a result of the start of the pandemic as
communication tools in educational centers due to the absence or insufficiency of
the means available to those responsible for the treatment.
The free, or basic version of GOOGLE SUITE is called "Fundamentals", while
that the paid versions called "Standard" or "Plus" allow the administrator,
among other options, select the data storage of certain services
principals in a specified region (data region policy), so that the data in
rest, including backups may not be transferred outside the Union
European.

The services available are, among others, Gmail, a web email service that was
were used by the claimants as an administrative management tool, not an educational one,
being the corporate address of said emails, that of the name of each employee followed
surname@eoijesusmaestro.es

With the creation of the account by the EOI JM in GS, using its own domain, it was assigned to
each employee, teacher or not, a username and password that allows each one to enter
in the GS solution, email being one of the tools whose use derives from
the same. Its use can be made from different devices as it works in the cloud, it is
Internet access required.

Normally, the Ministry of Education as the person responsible for the treatment and client is the
that creates a domain for the management of these accounts for educational centers. The
GS digital services for education are linked to email accounts
associated with domains of educational institutions. For example, in the case of CCAA of
Andalucía, which signed an agreement with GOOGLE for this application, created the domain
g.educaand.es
   for the Andalusian educational centers of
   for the management of those accounts
 
 
public ownership, preventing the proliferation of each center, institute or college or
school that had a domain type @nombredelcentro.org or school managed by
separate your account. Also in the CCAA of Madrid there was a rule in force in which no
the creation of its own domain by the center was allowed, which in this case is used to
the creation of the GOOGLE account.

Once the Department's domain has been created, email accounts linked to that domain will be created.
domain for teachers and students (users). It was also the case of the domain of the
account of the Regional Ministry of Education of Madrid when it signed the
agreements with MICROSOFT AND GOOGLE, placing the application on the page of
EDUCAMADRID, as a complement to those that make up the corporate platform
EducaMadrid. Therefore, the request of the EOI JM of 06/24/2021 in "request for use of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/53

educational tools outside the CCAA of Madrid" in which it is indicated that the center
“makes a GS account available to all students and teachers, the use of which requires
the express acceptance by the users,
  included in the domain
@eoijesusmaestro.es" and the measure of "migration to the environment" is considered to be
under the requirements that make up the Agreement that does not provide for it in the domain
@eoijesusmaestro.es.

Each user has an email address associated with digital services.
them. To access services and sign in to any of the Google applications,
accessed through the assigned email account and password to the entire con-
had of services offered by GS.

The services and configurations are made from the "administration console", "tools"
tool and online console that Google makes available to the client to manage the services
cios.”

This would include security options in the configuration of accounts, mailboxes and
the messages.

The application has several editions, the basic one being “FOR EDUCATION FUNDAMENTAL.
TALS”, free to eligible institutions.

The client's account is hosted by GOOGLE.

II

Regarding the examples given by the defendant of the "report on the use by
part of teachers and students of applications that store data in the cloud with systems
outside the educational platforms" of the AEPD, pointing out that the information that
appears on the AEPD website, which goes back to a press release of 03/06/2018 that
reports its content, of which the following stands out:

-The study has its origin in the strong increase in the use of apps in the school environment by
part teachers and students, as well as the large volume of data that is handled.

-the report is based on a study carried out among educational centers in collaboration with the
industry applications to collect data from these centers on how they use this type
of applications and tools, and information is collected on the use that students or
teachers make cloud storage tools, social networks and email
electronically, outside the educational platforms of the centers and at the initiative of the
teachers. Only a few centers have stated that they have established internal standards for
authorize its use.
The conclusions of the study include:

-In most centers they use these applications and in many cases through them
store personal data.

The great variety of applications that are used by the
teachers.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/53

-The study infers the majority use of systems that store data in the cloud with the
purpose of sharing documents between teachers and students and storing information
such as attendance list ratings photos and videos.

-Regarding the use of emails, it is verified that the email provided by the
educational platform is not the only one used.

The report also provided guidance in the form of a decalogue of recommendations
As a summary of the case at hand:

-Educational centers must ensure that the incorporation of technologies in the classrooms
is carried out respecting the right to Data Protection of those whose information
staff is treated.

-Teachers must request authorization of the applications for their use from the center which
must make an evaluation of the application in terms of information security.

- In addition to raising awareness of the use of data for students, it is indicated that it falls on the
center the duty to inform parents or students of the use in classrooms of these
apps that process student data, centers must use those that offer information
about who treats the data, for what and for what purpose, as well as where they are stored, the
time they are kept and security measures.

Although the report, dated prior to the entry into force of the GDPR, refers to the use
of the teachers, not to the use that the centers make, both one and the other have to take into account
account the identification, assessment and treatment or mitigation of risks for
rights and freedoms of people in the processing of personal data, through
technical and organizational measures, referring to the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
treatment. Measures to be updated when necessary and reviewed. This
Risk management also requires that it be documented.

IV.

The GDPR indicates:

article 1:

"1. This Regulation establishes the rules relating to the protection of persons
regarding the processing of personal data and the rules relating to the
free movement of such data.

2. This Regulation protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of

natural persons and, in particular, their right to the protection of personal data.

article 3:

"1. This Regulation applies to the fully or partially automated processing of
personal data, as well as the non-automated processing of personal data contained
or intended to be included in a file.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/53

article 4:

For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:

1) "personal data" means any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person whose
identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of a
identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or several elements of physical identity,
physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social of said person;

2) "processing": any operation or set of operations performed on data
personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not,
such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or
modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or
any other form of authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion or
destruction;

7) "responsible for the treatment" or "responsible": the natural or legal person, authority
public authority, service or other body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the ends and means
of the treatment; if the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the purposes and
means of treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the specific criteria for its
The appointment may be established by the Law of the Union or of the Member States;”

8) "in charge of the treatment" or "in charge": the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the data controller
treatment;
As a starting point, it should be noted that the analyzed use of the data processed in
the claimants for the EOI JM are not related to what could be a platform of
learning or the educational function but rather with the internal academic sphere from day to day.
day in the management that supposes the organization and direction of the work in the classes of
languages. In no way have they mentioned the use of other GS tools that
may serve such a learning, or educational function, which may also have been
used. The truth is that this suite arises from or is related in general to the creation of
a series of tools suitable for any type of management, business or business.
The claim deals with the opening and use of the email account for the
claimants and other employees, it would also affect the rest of the application that may
have been used for said educational purposes even though it is not the direct object of the
procedure. The basic issue is that both GOOGLE SUITE and GOOGLE SUITE
for education, which is an adaptation of the first, have common tools
that can be used for ordinary management of both companies and public schools.
The differences are the purpose of use and the data processed for it.
The twenty-third additional provision of Organic Law 2/2006, of 3/05, on Education,
establishes in a general way, one of the basic principles in relation to the treatment and
communication of personal data within its scope of application, by providing:

"3. In the processing of student data, technical standards and
organizations that guarantee their security and confidentiality. The teachers and the rest of the
personnel who, in the exercise of their functions, access personal and family data or who
affect the honor and privacy of minors or their families will be subject to the duty of secrecy.”
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/53

The email address is the set of words or signs that identify the issuer.
or the recipient of an email message. It is made from a set of
words or signs freely chosen, normally by its holder or by the organization to which
which it belongs to, with the only limitation that this address does not match that of another person.
It consists of a user ID, followed by the @ sign, and then the
domain (identification provided by the mail service provider, with a period, and
acronyms that can identify the activity of the organization (eg “.org”) or acronyms
of the country (eg “.es” or “.cató”).

In this case, the addresses are created directly containing information about the surrogates.
names, name and surname, or the position or person in charge, it is to be assumed that for the co-
it is known between whom the messages are exchanged.

The creation of the account for each employee is done for the purpose of communications
of teachers with the EOI, and among them, referred to as parties to a contract or re-
negotiating, labor or administrative relationship, and they are made because at the time it was considered necessary
necessary for the maintenance and/or fulfillment of said relationship, depending on the tasks that
the teachers who are the claimants in this case must legally perform. So, ha-
It would be necessary to differentiate what is called an account for corporate use compared to what would be
account or personal address as one used for private purposes by a person.
With this, we want to emphasize that consent is not the legal basis that protects in its
case the creation of an account for corporate use in an entity, be it a company, be it admi-
public administration, due to the purpose of the creation to which it responds -work purposes- to accommodate
place the development of the functions that it develops against the very dynamics that make up
the elements of consent: "consent of the interested party": any manifestation
of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will for which the interested party accepts, either
by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data
that concerns you”, art 4.11 GDPR. If the consent thesis were applied, it could be that
there were no such accounts and uses, obeying their establishment to the power of direction and organization.
organization of the employer, logically with the safeguards that in data protection
may affect the rights of those who are the owners of the data.

Since any treatment, in whatever way it is and without distinguishing its legal basis, supposes
an interference and limitation of the right of its owner to his privacy and his right to pro-
data protection, the first thing that should be indicated is that it should only be implemented when it passes the judg-
necessity and proportionality in relation to the legitimate objectives pursued, which
should be credited.
Therefore, it is agreed that the establishment of accounts for corporate use does not require the
employee consent. There are different types of email accounts
electronic, according to its purpose, the corporate account for work use, is
property of the company or institution in which the services are provided, who determines
both the user and the provider and the domain, and also the purposes and conditions
of use to which it is subjected. The company can only access email accounts
corporate email provided to its workers when access is justified and not
there is no other mechanism that makes it possible to achieve the objective pursued without the need for
access them.
The claimants or their union representatives state that they had before the im-
plantation of this GS account, of personal addresses or "linked to the personal account"
personnel that was included in the file of each teacher or worker”. It is appreciated that some

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/53

employees on the date after the implementation of the use of GS handle addresses of do-
minio hotmail from MICROSOFT, yahoo.es, or Gmail.com, in work-related communications
internal. Regarding this aspect, however, it should be noted that it is not appropriate for the
Internal affairs of the organization that involve teachers are managed through
personal, private accounts of the employee due to their work nature and content outside the organization
organization in which it develops, referring to the power of management of the employer.
This may give rise to confidentiality commitments of the information or loss of data.
cough, to cite just two examples.

Regarding the opposition to the processing of data, this right (article 21 of the GDPR) is not
applies when processing is based on consent, although the right to withdraw consent
consent at any time can have a similar result.

Recitals 74 and 78 of the GDPR state:

"(74) The responsibility of the data controller must be established for any
any processing of personal data carried out by himself or on his behalf. In particular,
The person responsible must be obliged to apply timely and effective measures and must be able to
demonstrate the compliance of processing activities with this Regulation, including
including the effectiveness of the measures. Such measures should take into account the nature,
scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risk to the rights and freedoms
from physical persons."

“(78) The protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with respect to the tra-
The processing of personal data requires the adoption of appropriate technical and organizational measures.
ordered in order to guarantee compliance with the requirements of this Regulation. TO
In order to be able to demonstrate compliance with this Regulation, the controller
must adopt internal policies and apply measures that comply in particular with the principles
principles of data protection by design and by default. Such measures could consist
aim, among others, to minimize the processing of personal data, pseudonymize the above
personal data as possible, provide transparency to the functions and data processing
personal data, allowing the interested parties to supervise the data processing and the person in charge
ble of the treatment to create and improve security elements. When developing, designing, selecting
create and use applications, services and products that are based on data processing
personal data or who process personal data in order to fulfill their role, data processors should be encouraged to
producers of products, services and applications to take into account the right to
data protection when they develop and design these products, services and applications,
and that they ensure, with due attention to the state of the art, that those responsible
and those in charge of the treatment are in a position to fulfill their obligations in matters
data protection law. The principles of data protection by design and by de-
effect should also be taken into account in the context of public contracts.”

V

The defendant is considered to have infringed the GDPR in article 32 of the GDPR, which indicates
AC:
"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature, the
scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as probability and severity risks
variables for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the person in charge and the
person in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures to
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/53

guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;

b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience

permanent treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a manner

fast in case of physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the

technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the level of security, particular account shall be taken of
the risks presented by the data processing, in particular as a consequence of the
destruction, loss or accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted,
stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to such
data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct pursuant to article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element to
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and has
access to personal data can only process such data following instructions from the
responsible, unless it is obliged to do so by Union law or the
Member states.". (The underlining is from the AEPD).

The aforementioned article is complemented with what is indicated in recital 83, "framework of the
risk assessment in relation to data security”, and taking into account that
the analyzes or evaluations of risks regulated in the RGPD, do not replace derivatives
of information systems security risk management.
The creation of the accounts begins on November 19, with operation from the following month.
following, before the declaration of the state of alarm for the pandemic. It is the object of re-
claim, use and creation of an email account for internal purposes
of academic management, and the type of use that is given, of internal management in requests and co-
ammunition.

The registration in the service was given by the management of the EOI, not by the person responsible for the treatment:
General Directorate of Secondary Education, Vocational Training and Special Regime,
with defined competencies in the matter, also adding reasons such as the
standardization of the conditions of use and implementation of platforms outside the
that advises the making of the last decision by the person in charge of the
treatment. With this, it would be a question, among other circumstances, of not letting a
tool only for its interaction or integration advantages, and this despite the autonomy of
academic management that the aforementioned EOI can count on, thus estimating in the first place that
It is based on this lack of legitimacy, which could be framed in article 29 of the GDPR:
"The person in charge of the treatment and any person acting under the authority of the person in charge
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/53

or the person in charge and has access to personal data may only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless they are obliged to do so by virtue of the Law of the
Union or of the Member States.

The fact that training courses on the tools had been promoted, that they were
very versatile or that solved various issues does not justify the implementation of the
itself, and should have been driven in an oriented manner. If such an element was deficient in
its regulation, the EOI JM should have requested authorization or consultation exposing the
project to those responsible for the aforementioned treatment, that there is no record that they were aware that
was going to be implanted, more than when it began to be known after the reactions initiated in
February 2020 by the employees who complain, already in the middle of the development of the course and with the
declaration of the pandemic by COVID-19.

It could be considered that despite this lack of internal competence as the person responsible for the
processing, at least functionally, the transmission of data, in this case by
of the address of the EOI JM to GOOGLE for the creation of the account constitutes a request
of treatment, when deciding the purpose of the treatment with the data of the employees, the
purposes for which they are going to be used, and extensive technical means that the person in charge makes available
your disposal.
In the same sense, the export of data that is carried out based on the
cloud system offered by GOOGLE.

The DGESFP and RE, take a first measure on 05/06/2020 notifying the Directorate of the
EOI the DPD report of 04/06/2020, when the DPD position was clear since February
2020.

The management of the EOI JM, as the highest academic and professional manager of the same,
acting in fact as data controller has not provided analysis
any of the risks, probabilities and seriousness linked to the use of an account created for the
use of the platform such as GOOGLE SUITE, more specifically related to the use of its
email.

To this was added that despite the fact that the GDPR entered into force in May 2018, it already existed before
a decalogue of good practices in the use of educational applications, and other instruments
that reported on the issue, but the EOI JM went ahead, implementing the application
for a use other than educational, which is the one claimed, an internal management use
academic, considering there was no specific application for administrative management
that the issuance of common instructions for the use of
applications, and that take force on the occasion of the declaration of the pandemic, in which
They begin to take over the educational scene. The defendant stated that when the
pandemic, some centers resorted to these non-corporate applications to
teach distance classes, having to request reports of which were these centers and
What tools did they use?

Specifies that the aforementioned EOI JM:

-It began its use when considering that the existing tool, EducaMadrid of content
educational, not academic management, with little implementation of e-mail
EducaMadrid, some claimants using their personal email address, considering

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/53

In addition, it suffered from a lack of integration of the videoconference tool with the
rest, the user experience and the online training platform through the
classes is hardly usable, lacks collaborative online office applications, lack of
integration with online office systems of the virtual classroom in the "MOODLE" application, as well
as another section of the benefits of GS applications for education.

-The RAÍCES academic management application (used in compulsory education) is not available.
I was prepared for the 20/21 academic year, nor did I have an alternative.

-With the request on 05/6/2020 of the person in charge to the DGBCE "to provide the
guidelines for the use of computer platforms other than corporate ones that are
using certain centers as long as the program is not launched
RAÍCES software that allow compliance with data protection regulations" is
shows the lack of foresight and unified standards for the sector that made each one
seek a management possibility, as well as the statement that "the
data from all the centers that were using RAÍCES”. As well as the request of
recommendations for the development of guidelines and instructions for the use of
educational platforms outside the corporate ones, which should also be incorporated for the
course 20-21 (24 pages) containing a table of contents including the
section on “use of educational applications and platforms”.

It is appreciated that with the implementation in the EOI JM of GOOGLE SUITE for education, no
No aspect has been presented regarding the identification, assessment and mitigation of the
risks to the rights and freedoms of individuals in data processing
personal, through technical and organizational measures, referring to the nature,
scope, context and purposes of the treatment that must be documented by the claimed party
before starting treatment, measures that must also be updated when necessary.
necessary and reviewed.

Thus, the security configuration measures of the mail are unknown, including the ad-
together, in what cases and how the encryption of shipments is proceeded, the security measures
provided to employees against the various risks that may arise,
from identity theft, spam or the use of malware to name the most common.

It is unknown if employees were made aware of their terms of use, not a mere
referral to the GOOGLE website, detailing the level of confidentiality of its use, the rules
on the possibility and cases in which the content can be monitored, considering that the
information could be incorporated as annexes to the contracts, since they may contain
disciplinary effects in the face of breaches of confidentiality in the treatment of information or
data. In this case, it can be seen that the instructions on this are few and far between.
and who receive information without systematizing and deficient in the implementation of the design of
the application.

Measures against risks of management treatment effects are unknown
of an EOI that were stored in the cloud, as well as the location of the site
in which the data was stored, if there were sub-managers, and they must have adopted
actively carried out an analysis of said risks and some measures that are not proven to exist.
so. Being unaware of the risks that are assumed in the use of the mail that is the object of the re-
clamation, the analysis of its severity and/or consequences is unknown.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/53

All of these reasons prove the infringement of the aforementioned article 32 of the GDPR.

SAW

The infringement is included in article 83.4.a) of the GDPR, which indicates:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, in the case of
a company, in an amount equal to a maximum of 2% of the total turnover
annual global of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8, 11, 25 to 39,

42 and 43;”

Article 58.2 of the GDPR indicates: "Each control authority will have all the
following corrective powers indicated below:

"d) order the controller or processor that the processing operations
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where applicable, of a
a certain way and within a specified period of time.

Article 83.7 of the GDPR adds:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under article
58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether and to what extent
measure, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established
in that Member State.

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to penalize entities
public, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the LOPDDGG: “1. He
regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatments that are
responsible or in charge:

"c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.”

"2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law, the
competent data protection authority will issue a resolution sanctioning
the same with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/53

data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that results from
application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and
certify the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that do not
had been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the sanction is imposed,
It will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and the
publication in the corresponding Official State or regional Gazette.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions of
the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency, this
will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infringement.”

Article 73 of the LOPDGDD, indicates, for the purposes of prescription of the offense: "
Offenses considered serious”:

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment, in the
terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed graduation criteria
of the sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, UNIVERSITIES, SCIENCE AND
SPOKESMAN of the AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITY OF MADRID, with NIF S7800001E, for
an infringement of article 32 of the GDPR, typified in article 83.4 a) of the GDPR, and to
prescription effects in article 73.f) of the LOPDGDD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the MINISTRY OF EDUCATION,
UNIVERSITIES, SCIENCE AND SPOKESMAN of the AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITY OF
MADRID.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/53

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

FOURTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for replacement before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act, according to what
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
provisionally suspend the final resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
their intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact by writing to the Agency
Spanish Protection of Data, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the LPACAP. You must also transfer to the
Agency the documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the notification
of this resolution, would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

