 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion  

1/2022 on the Proposal 
for a Regulation of the 
European Parliament and of 
the Council amending 
Regulation (EU) 2021/953 on a 
framework for the issuance, 
verification and acceptance 
of interoperable COVID-19 
vaccination, test and recovery 
certificates (EU Digital COVID 
Certificate) to facilitate free 
movement during the COVID-
19 pandemic 

 

Adopted 

14 March 2022 

 

 1 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1 

2 

3 

 

 

Background .................................................................................................................. 3 

Scope of the opinion ...................................................................................................... 4 

COMMENTS ................................................................................................................. 5 

3.1 

3.2 

General comments .................................................................................................. 5 

Specific comments .................................................................................................. 6 

Lack of  an evidential basis  for the assessment of  the necessity  and proportionality of 
3.2.1 
the Proposal ................................................................................................................. 6 

3.2.2  Modifications to current data fields .................................................................... 7 

 

 

Adopted 

 

 2 

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  and  the  European  Data  Protection 
Supervisor 

Having regard to Article 42(2) of the Regulation 2018/1725 of 23  October 2018 on the protection of 
natural persons  with  regard to  the  processing  of  personal  data by  the Union  institutions,  bodies, 
offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data, and  repealing  Regulation (EC)  No 
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC, 

Having  regard to  the  EEA  Agreement and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 
 
Having regard to the request for a Joint  Opinion  of the European Data Protection Supervisor and of 
the European Data Protection Board of 3 February 2022 regarding a Proposal for a Regulation of the 
European Parliament and of the Council  amending Regulation (EU) 2021/953 on a framework for the 
issuance,  verification  and  acceptance of  interoperable  COVID-19  vaccination,  test  and  recovery 
certificates (EU Digital COVID Certificate) to facilitate free movement during the COVID -19 pandemic 
as  well  as  regarding  a  Proposal  for  a  Regulation of  the  European  Parliament and  of  the  Council 
amending Regulation (EU) 2021/954 on a framework for the issuance, verification and acceptance of 
interoperable COVID-19 vaccination, test and recovery certificates (EU Digital COVID Certificate) with 
regard to third-country nationals legally staying or residing in the territories of Member States during 
the COVID-19 pandemic,   

HAVE ADOPTED  THE  FOLLOWING JOINT OPINION 

1  BACKGROUND 

1. 

2. 

On 3 February 2022, the Commission  adopted a Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament 
and of the Council  amending Regulation (EU) 2021/953 on a framework for the issuance, verification 
and  acceptance of  interoperable  COVID-19  vaccination,  test  and  recovery  certificates (EU  Digital 
COVID Certificate) to facilitate free movement during the COVID-19 pandemic (the “First Proposal”). 
The Commission  proposes  to base the first Proposal on Article 21(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning 
of  the European Union  (the “TFEU”) according to which  every EU citizen has the right to move and 
reside freely within the territory of the Member States1, subject to the limitations and conditions  laid 
down in the Treaties and by the measures adopted to give them effect. 

On  3  February  2022, the  Commission  also  adopted  a  Proposal  for  a  Regulation of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council  amending Regulation (EU) 2021/954 on a framework for the issuance, 
verification and acceptance of interoperable COVID-19 vaccination, test and recovery certificates (EU 
Digital COVID  Certificate) with  regard  to  third-country  nationals  legally  staying  or  residing  in  the 
territories of Member States during the COVID-19 pandemic amending Regulation (EU) 2021/954 on 
a framework for the issuance, verification and acceptance of interoperable COVID-19 vaccination, test 
and recovery certificates (EU Digital COVID Certificate) with regard to third-country nationals legally 
staying or residing in the territories of Member States during the COVID-19 pandemic (the “Second 

                                                             

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA  
Member States”, and references to the "EU" should be understood as references to the "EEA". 
 

Adopted 

 

 3 

Proposal”, and together with the First Proposal, the “Proposals”). The Commission  proposes  to base 
the Second  Proposal  on  Article 77(2)(c)  TFEU, according  to  which  the  Union  shall  develop  policies 
setting out the conditions  under which nationals of third countries  shall have the freedom to travel 
within the Union.  

3. 

The European Data Protection Board (the “EDPB”) and the European Data Protection Supervisor (the 
“EDPS”) note that the Proposals  seek to  extend the application of  Regulation 2021/953 (EU  Digital 
COVID Certificate) and, by extension, of Regulation 2021/954 by 12 months, as well as prolong for the 
same  time  the  power  of  the  Commission  to  adopt  delegated  acts  pursuant  to  Regulation  (EU) 
2021/953 (the “Regulation”). 

4. 

In  addition  to  extending the  application  of  the EU  Digital COVID Certificate, the  Proposals  aim to 
amend certain provisions  of the Regulation:  

1)  A  broadening  of  the definition  of  SARS-CoV-2  tests that rely  on  the  detection of  viral  proteins 
(antigens) to include immunoassays performed in a laboratory setting and not only rapid antigen tests 
that give results in less than 30 minutes;  

2)  An  explicit  clarification  that  vaccination  certificates  are  to  contain  the  number  of  doses 
administered to the holder, regardless of the Member State in which they have been administered, to 
make sure that the overall number actually administered is accurately reflected;  

3)  The inclusion  of  vaccination certificates issued  for  a COVID-19  vaccine undergoing  clinical trials 
among those certificates that may be accepted by Member States in order to waive restrictions to free 
movement; and 

4) The correction of a wrong cross-reference in Article 13(2) of Regulation (EU) 2021/953.  
 
On 3 February 2022, the Commission  requested a Joint Opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS on the basis 
of Article 42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 (the “EUDPR”)2 on the Proposals. 

2  SCOPE OF THE OPINION 

The Proposals are of particular importance due to their major impact on the protection of individuals’ 
rights  and  freedoms  with  regard to  the  processing  of  their  personal  data.  The  scope  of  this  Joint 
Opinion  is  limited to the aspects of the Proposals  relating to the protection of personal  data, which 
represent a fundamental aspect of the Proposals. 

For the sake of  clarity, as the Second  Proposal is  limited to ensuring  that Member States apply the 
rules  laid  down  in  the  First  Proposal  to third  country  nationals  who  reside  or  stay  legally in  their 
territory and are entitled to travel to other Member States in accordance with Union law, the EDPB 
and the EDPS will provide their recommendations with a focus  on the First Proposal. This being said, 

5. 

6. 

7. 

                                                             

2 Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection 
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and 
agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Decision No 
1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39). 

 

Adopted 

 

 4 

8. 

9. 

10. 

the  general comments  and  considerations  made  in  this  Joint  Opinion  are fully  applicable  to  both 
Proposals. 

Not entering into other important ethical and societal aspects on which the Proposals  may have an 
impact in  terms of  compliance with fundamental rights, the EDPB and  the EDPS highlight that it  is 
essential that the Proposals  are consistent and do not conflict in any manner with the application of 
the General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”)3. This is not only for the sake of legal certainty, 
but  also  to  avoid  that  the  Proposals  have  the  effect  of  directly  or  indirectly  jeopardizing  the 
fundamental right to the protection of personal data, as established under Article 16 TFEU and Article 
8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (the “Charter”). 

The EDPB and the EDPS are aware of the ongoing legislative process of the Proposals  and stress their 
availability  to  the  co-legislators  to  provide  further  advice  and  recommendations  throughout  this 
process and to ensure in particular legal certainty for natural persons and due protection of personal 
data for data subjects in line with the TFEU, the Charter and EU data protection legislation. 

3  COMMENTS 

3.1  General comments 

The  EDPB and  the EDPS  recall that compliance  with data  protection  rules  does  not  constitute an 
obstacle for  fighting the COVID-19 pandemic  and  that, at the  same time, the  general principles  of 
effectiveness, necessity and proportionality  must guide any measure adopted by Member States or 
EU institutions  that involve processing of  personal data to fight COVID-194. A regular assessment on 
any  measures  to  fight  the  COVID-19  pandemic  should  take  place,  having  regard to  the  relevant 
scientific evidence and additional measures in place, in order to continuously  evaluate which  actions 
remain  effective,  necessary  and  proportionate.  Additionally,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  also  recall  the 
principles relating to processing of personal data laid down in Article 5 of the GDPR, more specifically 
the principles of storage limitation, purpose limitation, as well as the principle of transparency.   

11.  Given the ongoing threat posed by  SARS-CoV-2, including  by its variant ‘Omicron’, whose  increased 
infectiousness  has resulted in very high case notification rates across the European Union and places 
considerable  strain on  healthcare systems  and society; the  impossibility  to predict  the impact of a 
possible  increase  in  infections  in  the  second  half  of  2022;  and  the  risk  of  a  prolongation  of  the 
pandemic  as  a  result  of  the  emergence  of  new  SARS-CoV-2  variants,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS 
understand the need to extend the applicability of  the Regulation.  

12.  However, the  EDPB and  the EDPS underline  that any  restriction to  the free  movement  of  persons 
within the European Union put in place to limit the spread of SARS-CoV-2, including the requirement 
to  present EU  Digital COVID Certificates,  should  be  lifted  as  soon  as the  epidemiological  situation 

                                                             

3 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2 7 April 2016 on the protection of 
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1. 
4 See also EDPB Guidelines 04/2020 on the use of location data and contact tracing tools in the context of the 
COVID-19 outbreak, para. 4; EDPB s Statement on the processing of personal data in the context of the COVID-
19 outbreak. Adopted on 19 March 2020.
 

Adopted 

 

 5 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

allows.  Moreover, the  EDPB and  EDPS will  pay  special  attention to the  evolution  of  the  COVID-19 
pandemic and in particular to the use of personal data following the end of the pandemic.  

The  EDPB and  the EDPS  take note  that the  First  Proposal  does  not  alter substantially  the existing 
provisions  of the Regulation with regard to the processing of personal data. 

The  EDPB and  the  EDPS  thus  welcome  that the GDPR  will  continue  to  apply  to  the  processing  of 
personal data carried out when implementing the Regulation.  

3.2  Specific comments 

3.2.1  Lack  of an evidential  basis for  the assessment of  the necessity  and proportionality of 

the Proposal 

The EDPB and the EDPS take note that the Commission did not carry out an impact assessment for 
the Proposals. According to the Commission, this is due to the urgency and the limited scope of the 
Proposals themselves5. 

The EDPB and the EDPS recall that the original proposal for the Regulation was not accompanied by 
an impact assessment. In their comments  made in  the Joint  Opinion  04/2021  on  the Digital Green 
Certificate, the EDPB and the EDPS underlined  the lack of  an impact assessment  accompanying the 
original proposal and pointed out that such an impact assessment would have provided substantiation 
as to the impact of the measures being adopted as well as to the effectiveness of already existing less 
intrusive measures6.  

17. 

The EDPB and the EDPS take note of the urgency of the First Proposal, given that, in the absence of an 
extension of the applicability of the Regulation, the latter would cease to apply on 30 June 2022.  

18.  Nevertheless, also given the epidemiological developments in relation to COVID-19 in recent months, 
the  need  for  an  extension  of  the  applicability  of  the  Regulation, and  by  extension  to  Regulation 
2021/954  regarding  third-country  nationals,  could  have  been  anticipated,  and  a  more  thorough 
assessment of the impact on fundamental rights, including on the right to data protection, should have 
been carried out.  

19. 

In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS also highlight that, in line with Article 16 (2) of the Regulation, the 
Commission  shall submit, by 31 March 2022, a report to the European Parliament and the Council  on 
the  application  of  the  Regulation,  containing  in  particular  an  assessment  of  the  impact  of  the 
Regulation on the facilitation of  free movement, fundamental rights and non-discrimination, as well 
as on the protection of personal data during the COVID-19 pandemic. The EDPB and the EDPS strongly 
consider that the Proposal should be accompanied by the abovementioned report, as foreseen in 
the same Article  of the Regulation, in order to provide a clear justification on the necessity and 
proportionality of the First Proposal, taking into account, amongst other things, the evolution of the 
epidemiological situation with  regard to  the  COVID-19  pandemic together with  the impact  on 

                                                             

5 See e.g. Explanatory Memorandum of the draft Proposal.  
6 EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 04/2021 on the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the 
Council on  a  framework for  the  issuance, verification and  acceptance of  interoperable certificates on 
vaccination, testing and recovery to  facilitate free  movement  during COVID-19 pandemic  (Digital Green 
Certificate), para. 16.

 

Adopted 

 

 6 

fundamental rights and non-discrimination notably  on  the  basis  of  the  possession  of  a  specific 
category of a medical certificate7. In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the view that the report 
should  also address other technical issues  such as the security of personal data related to the use of 
the certificates that have arisen when applying the Regulation in practice.  

20.  As mentioned above, the EDPB and the EDPS, in this regard, stress the need to continuously evaluate 
which measures remain effective, necessary and proportionate as regards the purpose of the fight 
against the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS recall the legal imperative for 
the data protection principles under Article 5 GDPR to be continuously applied and integrated in 
any personal data processing operation. 

3.2.2  Modifications to current data fields 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

The  First  Proposal  contains  an  explicit  clarification that vaccination  certificates are to  contain the 
number of doses administered to the holder, regardless of the Member State in which each dose has 
been administered, to accurately reflect the overall number of doses administered. 

To this end, the First Proposal seeks to amend paragraph 2, point (b) of Article 5 of  the Regulation as 
follows [proposed changes highlighted]: “information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the number of 
doses  administered  to  the  holder,  regardless  of  the  Member  State  in  which  they  have  been 
administered”. 

In the specific  case described above, the EDPB and the EDPS understand that the proposed  change 
seeks  to address  situations where individuals  have received vaccination doses  in different  Member 
States. Therefore, the proposed change seems to be limited to what is strictly necessary and does not 
raise particular concerns from a data protection perspective.  

This would however be different should the Commission  seek to substantially modify the current data 
fields. In this context, the EDPB and the EDPS recall their previous position that any modification of 
data fields might  require a  re-evaluation of the risks to fundamental rights and that only more 
detailed data fields  (sub-categories  of  data) falling  under the already defined categories of data 
should be added through the adoption of delegated acts 8. 

25.  Additionally, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the First Proposal provides  that persons  participating 
in  clinical  trials  for  the development  of  COVID-19 vaccines are also  eligible to  receive a  COVID-19 
vaccination certificate (EUDCC). For the sake of legal certainty, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that 
the First Proposal should clarify whether the information that a data subject has participated in a 
clinical  trial  would or would not be added to the categories of data listed in  Article  5(2)  of  the 
Regulation.  Should  such  category  of  data  be  added,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  refer  to  the 
recommendations put forward in paragraph 41 of the EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 04/2021 and recalled 
in paragraph 23 of the current Opinion.  

26. 

The EDPB and the EDPS further recall paragraph 39 of the Joint Opinion,  in which the EDPB and the 
EDPS note that "(...) an approach supporting differently comprehensive data sets and QR codes can 
improve data minimisation in different use cases." Should  the Digital COVID Certificate recording the 
three doses, or any further possible  doses, be used  for purposes  other than freedom of movement, 
                                                             

7 See Article 3(7) of the Regulation. 
8 EDPB-EDPS Joint Opinion 04/2021, para. 41.  

 

Adopted 

 

 7 

the necessary categories of personal data included in the QR code must be reassessed and different 
technical solutions improving data minimisation in different use cases may be needed. The EDPB and 
the EDPS therefore invite the Commission to assist the Member States in developing such technical 
specifications9. 

Brussels, 14 March 2022 

 

For the European Data Protection Supervisor 

The European Data Protection Supervisor 

 

(Wojciech Wiewiorowski) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

                                                             

9  See  Formal Comments  of  the  EDPS  on  the  draft Commission Implementing Decision (EU)  amending 
Implementing Decision (EU) 2021/1073 laying down technical specifications and rules for the implementation 
of the trust framework for the EU Digital COVID Certificate established by Regulation (EU) 2021/953 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council, 18 October 2021 https://edps.europa.eu/system/files/2021-10/2021-
0943%20Formal_comments_EUDCC_en.pdf) 
 

Adopted 

 

 8 

