1/17

 File No.: PS/00310/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 1, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against UNIVERSIDAD A
DISTANCE FROM MADRID, S.A. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement
which is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00310/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the entity, UNIVERSIDAD A DISTANCIA DE MADRID, S.A., with CIF.: A81618894,
CEF-UDIMA educational group, (hereinafter, "the claimed party"), by virtue of
complaint filed by D. A.A.A., (hereinafter, "the complaining party"), and having
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On 03/19/21, this Agency received a document submitted by
the claimant, in which he indicated, among others, the following:

“On 02/10/21 I requested the data controller (Universidad a Distancia de Madrid
UDIMA) through the email address, ***EMAIL.1 the deletion and
Opposition to the processing of all my data for any type of purpose.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

On 02/15/2021 I received an email from the UDIMA Data Protection Delegate at
that the following was explicitly indicated to me: “In response to your request and given that
your personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which
were collected or treated. We have proceeded to remove it from all our
records".

On 03/17/21 I received a new email from UDIMA with advertising
and the following subject Virtual Employment Fair Invitation through the address of
email ***EMAIL.2”.

The following documentation is attached to the written complaint:

1.- Email sent on 02/10/21, from the claimant's address to the
email address ***EMAIL.1 requesting the deletion and opposition of the
treatment of your personal data by attaching a copy of your ID.

2.- Email sent on 02/15/21, from the address, ***EMAIL.3, to the
e-mail address of the claimant, indicating: "In response to your request
and since your personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for
those that were collected or treated. We have proceeded to eliminate all
our records."

3.- Email sent on 03/17/21, from the address, Universidad UDIMA
***EMAIL.2, to the claimant's email address, including a
invitation to the Job Fair organized on March 23, 24 and 25 by the Group
Educational CEF.- UDIMA.

4.- Email sent on 04/14/21, from the address, Universidad UDIMA
***EMAIL.2, to the claimant's email address, with the Subject:
“UDIMA free online sessions”.

SECOND: On 04/30/21, this Agency sent a request
information to the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the protection of personal data and
guarantee of digital rights, (“LOPDGDD”).

THIRD: On 05/14/21, this Agency received a written response to the
requirement, which, among others, indicated:

The reasons why UDIMA sent the emails object of the
claim are linked to the information provided to all
its students and applicants for information regarding employment opportunities
that are presented linked to the studies that are taught.

In this sense, for the mere purposes of its knowledge by the AEPD, and for its
assessment of what happened, it is reported that UDIMA is the first university
private online from Spain; recognized in Law 1/2006, of June 14 of the
Community of Madrid and that, together with the Center for Financial Studies (CEF)
makes up the CEF Educational Group. - UDIMA.

By virtue of this reason, its methodology is based on online training, making
priority use of new information and communication technologies. This
way, it is pursued that, despite the distances, the student feels accompanied
by the teacher and his classmates at all times, pretending to be a
"university close" to the student throughout the learning process. Hence it is
have established a variety of communication channels accessible to
students such as the following identified on the customer service page
UDIMA student (https://www.udima.es/es/atencion.html): • “Service line
telephone. Call center attended from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. •
Academic Management Forum. Specific channel to make administrative queries to
through the Academic Management Forum • Material delivery service
Didactic. Specific channel to record requests and incidents in the reception of
teaching material on paper and textbooks. • Classroom technical support. is a service
developed to make queries or report incidents on technical aspects
of the functioning of the campus, the classrooms and the exploitation of all the services and
associated applications. • Suggestions, complaints and claims mailbox. The mailbox
to collect suggestions, complaints and claims is intended to record and leave
record of open references by users of the UDIMA on aspects
regarding its services and operation.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

The interested party can submit their complaint, claim or suggestion at the following
address ***EMAIL.4 • University Ombudsman.

The University Ombudsman is a figure whose mission is to ensure respect for the
rights and freedoms of teachers, students and Administration staff and
Services, regarding the actions of the different bodies and services
college students ***URL.1. Other services and student support programs through
of which other types of queries are channeled: • The Department of Attention and
DAOE Student Orientation. • The Department of Information, application and
scholarship processing. • The Department of Validation and Recognition of
Credits. Information, application and processing of recognition files. •
Degree student tutoring program. It is a program developed by
the Academic Departments for accompaniment and orientation of the student of
Degree. Each UDIMA undergraduate student is assigned a tutor on a regular basis.
permanent since his admission and during his stay at the University. •
Academic Manager Assignment Program. It is a program developed by the
Department of Academic Management for accompaniment and orientation of the
student based on their needs. Varies according to needs
detected and the availability of managers. • The Technical Unit for Quality and
University Social Responsibility.

The organizational unit responsible for quality management and responsibility
social unit of the University is the Technical Unit for Quality and RSU. The activity of the
Technical Quality Unit provides service in terms of quality and responsibility
to the different organizational areas and interest groups, attending to the
regulatory requirements, the needs and requirements of its stakeholders, as well as
as well as to the different mandates of the Management, the Rectorate and the General Secretariat to
through the Quality Committee. ***URL.2” Including, especially: “Job Exchange
and Entrepreneurs It is a free service for UDIMA students, it offers
guidance and accompaniment in job placement, internships in
companies and advice on entrepreneurship and self-employment***URL.3”

2º) Legal basis of said motivation: In the desire to provide the best service
possible to all students and potential students with whom UDIMA relates
has established a protocol, in terms of data protection, which seeks to give
response to all requests and questions that are made in the shortest period of time
possible time including, of course, everything related to eventual exercises of
rights by students and information seekers (SDI) and, among them, the management to
comply with the manifestations that are received, expressing the desire not to receive
advertising.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

Requests not to receive advertising are included, once everything has been verified.
related to the particular application, on a specific exclusion list of
advertising. Each time a campaign is carried out, and prior to
its launch, the list of students and SDI is crossed with the exclusion list referred to
for the purpose of excluding those who have exercised their right in this regard.

However, it has been internally assessed that the exercise of these rights by
students and SDI cannot be the object of an apparent treatment of worse condition towards the
same, in terms of the benefit of social services provided by UDIMA,
for the precise reason of having exercised their rights. This is the case of
free services provided to all students and SDI, notably in
matter of access to employment, since it is understood that it would go against the good faith that must be
save UDIMA with the people with whom it relates if because they request
not receive publicity, they will be excluded from the information related to the
employment opportunities. And, this was what happened in the case that is the subject of the claim.

3º) This section provides the chronology of events and the evidence
regarding the information provided:

A) the exercise of rights by the interested party was processed as follows:

- On February 10, 2021 2:31 p.m.: A request for SUPPRESSION and OPPOSITION to the
treatment of all your personal data. - The same February 10, 2021 14:39:
the data verification protocol is started, noting first that in CEF,
There is no record of that information.

- On February 11, 2021 06:55: the procedures to request the department,
that manages the email communications, that proves the origin of the
data of the interested party. From which it follows that the data comes from an SDI of
UDIMA.

- On February 11, 2021 09:48: once the location of the data is known, it is
requests the systems manager to eliminate these, the user is also identified.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

person from the commercial department assigned to him, the follow-up of the interested party,
to eliminate the personal information that it has.

- The same February 11, 2021 09:51: confirmed with the systems manager
of CEF, that the procedure for exercising the rights of the
interested, emphasizing that the origin of these data corresponds to UDIMA,
clearly indicating that you have contacted the system and commercial manager
and the protocol is closed with CEF computer services.

- On February 12, 2021 5:34 p.m.: since the Exercise protocol has started
of Rights in terms of data protection, it is noted that the interested party has
together with your request for information, a request for recognition of credits, for
Therefore, the approval of this process is needed before it is completely eliminated,
making special mention of the possibility of having the information on paper.

- On February 15, 2021 12:17 It is confirmed from the department of
Recognition of Credits, that no data of the interested party is saved, as well as
the confirmation of the elimination of the interested party, the CRM and the database of the
Web.

- The same February 15, 2021 15:13: Once the confirmation of the
elimination of the data, we proceed to answer the interested party by sending him an email
electronic

B) On the other hand, in this specific case, the notification of
information to students and SDI of grades, happening that in January they had to
prepare the unified campaigns for the four-month period due to the affected services
due to the present circumstances imposed by the COVID pandemic, becoming
Capture of the CRM Sugar of degrees in which the claimant was registered. As
the next communication referred to information of interest to the referred students
On the subject of employment, communications numbers XXXX and XXXX were labeled as
"No promotions" and, consequently, with what was said in this writing, they were sent.

CONCLUSION: The facts that have given rise to this claim had
place when the dates of the procedure for managing the exercise of rights of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

data protection and information processes provided by UDIMA to its
undergraduate and master's students and SDI.

Chronologically, as already stated, in January the communications were prepared
informative that were qualified as non-promotional. In this list was the
claimant as SDI Law Degree. That qualification as "no promo" together with
the alterations caused in the ordinary management by the state of pandemic made
the check of the list of recipients was postponed. Meanwhile, the
procedure for exercising data protection rights followed its deadlines
according to internal protocols. The consequence was that the recognition of
rights made in February could not be reflected in the January list and hence the
gap. The intention was to try to satisfy the interested party by treating his claim with
the greatest diligence and speed, communicating it often and comply with the policy of
maximum care of people and with the principle of good faith in relationships
that are maintained with them, which led to the interested party not being deprived of
information that was understood to be favorable to him because it was free and referred to
employment opportunities.

Of course, no profit was sought and it was a fact
point in time that was influenced by the concurrent circumstances. For other
party, no other claim has been received apart from the one communicated by the
AEPD. It should be emphasized that after the recognition of the rights,
all the appropriate measures to give them effectiveness, so that, currently, the
they must be satisfied.

Finally, the offer is made, if the AEPD deems it appropriate, to send
communication to the claimant informing him of what happened, as well as the guarantee of
the effectiveness of their rights. By virtue of the foregoing, I REQUEST that, considering
presented, in time and form, this document and the warnings made in
attention to the object of the notification, consider the request for information fulfilled
effected.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I- Competition:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

- On the exercise of the rights recognized in the RGPD and the treatment of

personal information:

It is competent to initiate and resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, by virtue of the powers that art 58.2
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16,
regarding the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to the Treatment of
Personal Data and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD) recognizes each
Control Authority and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD),

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

- About sending advertising emails without consent:

In accordance with the provisions of art. 43.1, second paragraph, of the Law
34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Information Society and Commerce
Electronic System (LSSI), is competent to initiate and resolve this Procedure
Sanctioning, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

II

In the present case, the respondent states that the reason why they were
The two promotional emails in question were sent to the claimant
is your link to the information that is provided to all of your students and
applicants for information regarding employment opportunities that arise
linked to the courses taught.

In addition, it informs that it has a specific advertising exclusion list, the
which is taken into account, according to their version, on each occasion that a
campaign (prior to its launch), but which: "has internally assessed
that the exercise of data protection rights by students and applicants for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

information cannot imply an apparent treatment of a worse condition in terms of the
benefits of the social services that are provided on their behalf”, understanding that, “if
exclude such persons from information relating to employment opportunities
when they have requested not to receive advertising, then it would go against the good faith that should
save with the people with whom you relate”.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the respondent states that, in relation to the specific case
claimed, the information was managed from students and information seekers in such a way
so that, in January 2021, the four-month period campaigns were prepared
unified because the services are affected by the circumstances arising from the
COVID-19 pandemic and adds that, as he understood that the information was of interest
for students and applicants for information, sent the two communications
e-mails claimed categorized as “non-promotional”.

The respondent states that the events that gave rise to the claim
took place when the dates of the exercise management procedure overlapped.
rights of data protection and of the informative processes directed to their
students and information seekers and insists that in January 2021 they prepared
informative communications classified as non-promotional, among which
recipients was the claimant as information requester, who
exercised their data protection rights in February 2021 and ended up receiving the
communications in March 2021 and in April 2021 and points to the alterations
caused in the ordinary management by the state of the COVID-19 pandemic as
reason why the verification of the recipients to whom it was sent was postponed.
They conducted communications.

- On the exercise of the rights recognized in the RGPD,

III

In this sense, article 12 of the RGPD, establish that:

1.- The person responsible for the treatment will take the appropriate measures to facilitate the
interested all information indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any
communication under articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing, in the form
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible, with clear and simple language, in
particular any information directed specifically at a child. Information
shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable, by

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

electronics. When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.

2. The person responsible for the treatment will facilitate the interested party in the exercise of their rights in
under articles 15 to 22. In the cases referred to in article 11, paragraph 2,
The person in charge will not refuse to act at the request of the interested party in order to exercise their
rights under articles 15 to 22, unless you can show that you are not in
conditions to identify the interested party.

3. The data controller will provide the interested party with information regarding their
proceedings on the basis of a request under articles 15 to 22, and, in
in any case, within one month from receipt of the request. Saying
The term may be extended for another two months if necessary, taking into account the
complexity and number of requests. The person in charge will inform the interested party of
any such extension within one month of receipt of the
request, indicating the reasons for the delay. When the interested party submits the
request by electronic means, the information will be provided by electronic means
when possible, unless the interested party requests that it be provided in another way.

For its part, article 17.1 of the same RGPD, regarding the “Right to suppress
(«the right to be forgotten»)”, establishes that:

1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain, without undue delay, from the person responsible for the
treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which will be
obliged to delete personal data without undue delay when any
of the following circumstances: a) the personal data is no longer necessary in
relation to the purposes for which they were collected or otherwise processed; b) the
The interested party withdraws the consent on which the treatment is based in accordance with
Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a) and it is not based
on another legal basis; c) the interested party opposes the treatment in accordance with the
Article 21, paragraph 1, and other legitimate reasons for the treatment do not prevail, or
the interested party opposes the treatment in accordance with article 21, paragraph 2; d) the
personal data has been unlawfully processed; e) the personal data must
suppressed for the fulfillment of a legal obligation established in the Right of
the Union or the Member States that applies to the data controller; F)
the personal data has been obtained in relation to the offer of services of the
information society referred to in article 8, paragraph 1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

According to the evidence available at this time, and without
Prejudice to what results from the investigation, the exposed facts could suppose the
violation of article 17.1 of the RGPD, in relation to article 12 of the aforementioned
Regulation, since it has been proven that the entity did not act
diligently,
 by having sent new advertising emails to
claimant after having exercised it, the right of suppression.

For its part, article 72.1.k) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, “The impediment or the obstruction or the repeated non-attention of the
exercise of the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation”.

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to be imposed in
the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance
with the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

The facts object of the claim are a consequence of the clear lack of
due diligence on the part of the entity complained against, (paragraph b).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 17.1 of the
RGPD, in relation to article 12 of the RGPD, allows setting an initial penalty of
3,000 euros, (three thousand euros).

IV

- On the sending of advertising emails without the consent of the

interested,

In this sense, article 21 of the LSSI provides the following:

"1. The sending of advertising or promotional communications by
email or other equivalent means of electronic communication

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

previously they had not been requested or expressly authorized by the
their recipients.

2. The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply when there is a
prior contractual relationship, provided that the provider had legally obtained
the contact details of the recipient and will use them to send communications
commercial references to products or services of your own company that are
similar to those initially contracted with the client.

In any case, the provider must offer the recipient the possibility of opposing the
processing of your data for promotional purposes through a simple procedure
and free, both at the time of data collection and in each of the
commercial communications addressed to you.

When the communications have been sent by email, said
means must necessarily consist of the inclusion of an email address
electronic or other valid electronic address where this right can be exercised,
sending communications that do not include said address is prohibited.”

Therefore, according to the evidence available at this time,
and without prejudice to what results from the investigation, the facts exposed could
suppose the violation of article 21 of the LSSI, by the claimed entity, by
send several advertising emails without the consent of the affected party.

The aforementioned infraction is typified as minor in art. 38.4.d) of said
standard, which qualifies as such, "The sending of commercial communications by e-mail
electronic or other equivalent means of electronic communication when in said
shipments do not meet the requirements established in article 21 and do not constitute
Serious offense".

Pursuant to the provisions of article 39.1.c) of the LSSI, minor infractions may
sanctioned with a fine of up to €30,000, establishing the criteria for its
graduation in article 40 of the same norm.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

After the evidence obtained, and without prejudice to what results from the investigation,
considers that in this case it acts as an aggravating circumstance:

-

The existence of intent (section a), since the entity claimed
sent commercial advertising through advertising emails, without the
consent of the interested party.

In accordance with these criteria, it is considered appropriate to impose a sanction on the defendant
initial payment of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in the present case, with respect to the
infractions committed by the claimed entity allows a total initial sanction to be set
of 5,000 euros, (five thousand euros): 3,000 euros for infraction of article 17.1 of the
RGPD and 2,000 euros for violation of article 21 of the LSSI.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, By the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

START: SANCTIONING PROCEDURE against the entity, UNIVERSITY A
DISTANCIA DE MADRID, S.A., with CIF.: A81618894, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations (LPACAP), for the presumed infraction of the
article 17.1, with respect to article 12 of the RGPD, and violation of article 21 of the
LSSI.

APPOINT: instructor to D. B.B.B. and, as secretary, Ms. C.C.C., indicating that
any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the
Articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP).

INCORPORATE: to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

generated by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection during the
research.

WHAT: for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be a total fine of 5,000 euros (five thousand euros), without
prejudice to what results from the instruction.

NOTIFY: this agreement to the entity, UNIVERSIDAD A DISTANCIA DE
MADRID, S.A., granting a hearing period of ten business days for
formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it deems appropriate.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent in this case to 1,000 euros. with the app
of this reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case
to 1,000 euros. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be established in
4,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 3,000 euros (three thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts indicated
above, you must make it effective by depositing it in the account ES00 0000
0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause of reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

>>

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

SECOND: On July 15, 2021, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 3,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00310/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to DISTANCE UNIVERSITY OF
MADRID, S.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-160721

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

