1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00022/2020

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. and Mrs. B.B.B. (hereinafter, the claimants) dated 12
December 2019 they filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

The claim is directed against the resident of the town C.C.C. with NIF

***NIF.1 (*hereinafter, the claimed one).

The grounds on which the claim is based are “installation of a device that
allows the capture of a transit zone without justified cause, affecting with the
himself to his freedom of movement” (folio nº 1).

Along with the claim, documentary evidence is provided (Annex I. Photographs No.
1-3) that certify the presence of the device and the absence of any poster in a
transit zone.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

THIRD: After consulting the database of this Agency, there is a procedure
prior associated with the aforementioned defendant, with reference number PS/00170/2019
which ended with the following literal tenor:

“WARN (PS/00170/2019) Mr. C.C.C. for infringement of the content of the
art. 5.1 c) RGPD, by having a video-surveillance device oriented towards
public area, offense typified in article 83. 5 a) RGPD, being punishable by
in accordance with art. 58.2 GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

2.- REQUEST D.C.C.C. so that within a month from this act of
notification:

 Accredit the technical characteristics of the installed device, as well as that the

It conforms to current legislation.

 Failing that, you must prove the withdrawal of the same or, where appropriate, the

reorientation towards their private space exclusively.”

FOURTH: On March 19, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On 03/17/20 collaboration is requested from the Security Forces and Corps
State Security, so that those displaced to the scene of the events carry out the
themselves, as well as the legality of the system, without any response having been given
to day of date.

SIXTH: On 09/11/20 the request for collaboration to the Directorate is reiterated
General Guardia Civil (***LOCATION.1) without any answer having been given to
date day.

SEVENTH: When the database of this organization was consulted on 10/07/20, no
received any complaint in this regard.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. On 12/12/19 a Complaint is received in this body transferring the pre-
presence of a device, which could be a camera, with presumed affectation
to a transit area through which the complainant(s) travels.

Second. Don C.C.C. is identified as the main responsible for the installation.

Third. The presence of the device is proven, although it has not been possible to prove
that it is a video surveillance camera or that it is operational.

Fourth. There is no accredited evidence that it has an informative poster, indicating the respon-
saber of the treatment in its case of the images.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

On 12/12/19, this Agency received a new Complaint of the aforementioned,
stating that the accused "has not removed" the device from the place of emplacement-
proceedings, proceeding to formulate a new complaint against the resident of the town referred to.
cited above.

The facts described above may affect the content of the
art. 5 letter c) RGPD, which provides: “The personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed (“data minimization”)”.

Cameras installed by individuals should be oriented preferably
towards their private space, counting on the mandatory informative distinctive to the
appropriate legal effects.

The individual responsible for the installation must be able to accredit before
this Control Authority that it complies with all legal requirements
two, indicating where appropriate the reason for the installation.

In the case of a video-surveillance camera, it must have the mandatory
informative badge, placed in a visible area indicating that it is a living space.
deo-watched.

III

In accordance with the evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning party, it is considered that the defendant has installed some type of device
recording with obvious orientation towards a public transit area, without cause
justified.

The evidence provided allows verifying the presence of the device, the intention
tionality in the installation as well as the orientation without justified cause towards space
public, assuming the "inconvenience" to third parties.

At first it seems that the defendant has a motion detector
in a transit area, which allows you to obtain images (photographs) of all those
who travels along the road attached to his home, it is well that it is mere assumptions
that have not been able to be accredited by this body.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

IV

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the criminals has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
thor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

v

In accordance with the above, it has not been possible to prove the administrative infraction
described, despite the efforts of this Agency to verify the same, reason
by which it proceeds to order the FILE of the same.

In any case, the complainants are recommended to transfer the "facts" to
the nearest State Security Forces and Bodies so that they can
where appropriate, verify the same and transfer them to this Agency in case the problems persist.
same, duly documented.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of the present procedure, since it has not been accredited
tad the administrative infraction subject to transfer.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don C.C.C. and REPORT the result
statement of the proceedings to the complainants Doña A.A.A. and Mrs. B.B.B.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-
CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following
Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPA-
CAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the city
tada Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
certifying the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. Yes
the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
nistrative within two months from the day following the notification of the pre-
This resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

