
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    03/31/2020
                                Can and may the cell phone help against Corona?©
                            Lfdi, Tumisu, mister-pi / pixabay.comIn view of the further spread of the corona virus, tracking solutions to combat the corona pandemic are currently being discussed in many places. Although the federal legislature initially refrained from creating a separate legal basis for the use of mobile location data for infection protection purposes due to the concerns of the data protection officers and the Ministry of Justice, the idea is likely to be taken up again given the expected duration of the pandemic.
 The question is which technical path to choose. Evaluations based on a radio cell query are unsuitable because in most cases the cells are too large and therefore unsuitable for identifying contacts between mobile radio subscribers.
The path taken in some other countries of merging location data with other data (credit card, video surveillance, etc.) as part of a surveillance package appears disproportionate against the background of the European understanding of data protection.
But this is not even necessary. In order to be able to understand chains of infection, location data alone is not enough anyway; knowledge of contacts with infected persons is decisive. A mobile phone app seems more viable here, which informs those affected on the basis of voluntary use for relevant contacts. Such solutions are currently being pursued in different places and sometimes with different approaches.
"A lot depends on the specific design," says the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, “but such an app is possible and can also be designed in compliance with data protection. A lot of people are thinking about this right now and I hope that people don't lose sight of the importance of our freedom rights. For me, the following criteria are decisive: the voluntariness to decide on the use, a narrow earmarking, the pseudonymization of the data and deletion when there is no longer a risk of infection. For me, the core of the matter is that we do not give up freedom prematurely if it does not serve the purpose of effective health protection. There is no doubt that fighting the pandemic is a priority, but please within the rule of law, otherwise the state order will erode.”
Further information: Handy-Tracking vs. CoronaPaper "Corona-Tracking" of the European Center for Digital Rights Overview "Projects using personal data to combat SARS-CoV-2"
                                return
                            



