

As part of the eCommerce Arena, on October 25, 2021, a webinar was organized for all interested entrepreneurs entitled "Paradigm change in the sales and marketing activities of companies: are you ready?" which was also attended by Siniša Kovačić, Head of the Supervision Service and Central Registry, Agency for the Protection of Personal Data.
In today's world, many companies encounter challenges in how to protect personal data in the digital world, that is, how to conduct marketing activities as efficiently as possible, and at the same time take care of their users and their data. How personal data can be properly and lawfully processed is prescribed by the General Data Protection Regulation, therefore at the very beginning of the webinar Mayor Siniša Kovačić spoke about its application in the Republic of Croatia, the basic terms of the Regulation and what managers/executors of processing must take into account when processing personal data . He explained the role of the personal data protection officer and why he is important to every organization. He pointed out that citizens still confuse the concepts of data controller and personal data protection officer, thinking that the data controller is a natural person in the company, and not the company itself that processes their personal data.
During the webinar, the panelists touched on an inevitable topic in the digital environment, which is the use of cookies, which are used to identify users and track their habits when visiting websites, and for the purpose of personalized marketing. At the same time, it was pointed out that for the processing of personal data through such types of cookies, it is necessary to request consent from the respondent, and until the respondent gives consent for the use of these cookies, only necessary cookies can be used, i.e. cookies for which consent is not required (such as cookies in which store information about the selected products in the virtual shopping cart in the Internet store).
In the end, all participants of the webinar agreed that the General Data Protection Regulation should not be feared, because it is not an obstacle, but on the contrary, a regulation that has helped digital marketing campaigns to be of much higher quality today.
"The general regulation on data protection introduces an order so that respondents are aware of what is happening with their personal data, as well as what guarantees citizens certain rights, and it also determines the rules for data controllers in which way they can legally process this data and make life easier for themselves and users," concluded Siniša Kovačić.
Panelists:
Siniša Kovačić – Head of the Supervision Service and Central Registry, AZOP
Senad Kulenović – Managing Partner Digital IQ d.o.o. & Agilcon d.o.o.
Dario Horvat – Account Manager, Arbona d.o.o.
Tom Gavazzi – webinar moderator, director of Woom and Business Sailing Experience Agency
