 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.417.1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

March 30, 2020

Data breach at the Investment Bank Berlin

The website of the Investitionsbank Berlin (IBB), through which the government
emergency aid provided for freelancers and small businesses can be applied for
can, reported a serious one last Friday, March 27, 2020
programming error. This meant that applicants who
submitted an application between approximately 3:30 p.m. and approximately 4:15 p.m. on that day
the application confirmation has been made accessible to another person. When submitting an application
ID, tax and bank details are requested in addition to data on the company.
Applicants who submitted their applications during the specified period
must therefore assume that their data has been transmitted to third parties. According to current
As far as we know, the IBB assumes that up to 390 people will be affected.
 
After the problem became known, the bank had the application process promptly
suspended and only put back into operation after the programming error has been rectified.
The IBB reported the incident to the Berliner in due time on Monday, March 30, 2020 at 12 p.m
Reported to the data protection and freedom of information officer. She is responsible for this in accordance with Art. 33
of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The applicants concerned
Applicants are currently being identified and informed by IBB in accordance with Art. 34 GDPR. the
Berlin's data protection officer will accompany this process in terms of supervisory law.
 
The data of those affected were not generally accessible, but were exclusively
made mutually accessible to other applicants. The Berliners
The data protection officer calls on all applicants who, in the course of this
Incidentally, have unlawfully obtained access to the data of other persons, to do so
to be deleted immediately in accordance with data protection regulations and to destroy the corresponding printouts. the
Under no circumstances may data be stored permanently or processed in any other way.
 
  
 
 

 

 

 

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

   