  Tuesday, September 6, 2022 2: Press releases Freedom of information by design – and data protection?! Reduce effort - increase transparency On Monday, September 12, 2022, the data protection summer academy on the topic "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" will take place in Kiel. Experts from all over Germany will discuss current developments in consumer protection and data protection. At the federal level and in almost all countries, freedom of information laws regulate the right to access information held by public authorities. The aim of this possibility of accessing information is to achieve more transparency about the actions of the authorities and thus a traceability of decisions. During the introduction of the freedom of information laws, many authorities were not used to being watched in this way. The laws are now being transformed into modern transparency laws that oblige public bodies to proactively publish information in transparency portals. Since this year, the Schleswig-Holstein Open Data Act has enabled even more extensive provision of all types of data. The demand for usable data is increasing - for the common good, for the economy, for reporting in the media and also for very individual purposes by private individuals. Authorities are faced with practical problems: small applications can result in a great deal of effort. Information must be gleaned, hearings conducted and trade-offs made. There is often a feeling of uncertainty as to whether too little or too much has been passed on. Problems can also arise if direct or indirect personal data (e.g. building applications) are requested. Transparency laws must not lead to transparent people whose data can suddenly be found on the Internet. The passing on of names, addresses, etc. is usually excluded, but what about indirect information? Overall, geodata and supposedly anonymized profiles can make individuals identifiable again – and then what? Are artificial intelligence and algorithmic systems part of the solution - or do they pose new problems? At the Summer Academy, experts from practice and science will illuminate the topic from different perspectives and examine opportunities and risks. Effective options should be discussed as to how the legal requirements can be implemented in reality and which steps lead to improved transparency and usability of data - of course in compliance with data protection! Marit Hansen, State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein, is looking forward to the lectures and impulses in the various discussion rounds. After the words of welcome from the Mayor of Kiel, Dr. Ulf Kampfer will present her agency's proposals for "Freedom of Information by Design". Arne Semsrott from the Open Knowledge Foundation Germany e.V. will then speak about FragDenstaat's wishes for freedom of information by design. Sven Thomsen, the state's CIO, will present the approaches from Schleswig-Holstein with two portals for openness and transparency. Transparency in everyday official life is the focus of Prof. Dr. Moreen Heine, who holds a professorship for e-government and open data ecosystems at the University of Lübeck. Afterwards, the Hamburg data journalist Björn Schwentker will expand the picture to include the perspective of the press with his keynote speech "Exchanging data for democracy". Finally, Prof. Dr. Louisa Specht-Riemenschneider, with a focus on legally secure data usability in the public interest, combine the topics of access to information and data protection. The aim of the debate is to derive the requirements for a practicable design of freedom of information and data release from the multifaceted picture, which also protects data protection. After the impulses in the morning program, practical topics from the area of freedom of information and data protection will be presented and discussed. The panel discussion with the data protection policy spokespersons of the Schleswig-Holstein state parliament forms the conclusion. Framework data: Summer Academy 2022 "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!"
on September 12, 2022 at the ATLANTIC Hotel in Kiel
Start: 9.00 a.m. The program of the Summer Academy 2022 and the possibility to register can be found here: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/sommerakademie/2022/ Press representatives: Upon presentation of an official press card, representatives of the press can attend the event participate. Registration is required. The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein is available for press conferences between 1.30 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. In this case, please use the e-mail address: sommerakademie-presse@datenschutzzentrum.de If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 mail@datenschutzzentrum.de
Tags for this article: freedom of information, news, press releases, eventsArticles with similar topics: Data protection ensures free democratic elections - Planned EU regulation on transparency and on the targeting of political advertising Announcement - "Save the date!" - Summer Academy in Kiel on September 11th, 2023 5 Years of the General Data Protection Regulation: Proven standard, implementable, internationally recognized 105th Conference of the Independent Data Protection Authorities: Employee data protection, AI in the police, wireless water meter, sovereign cloud Preliminary agenda of the 45th working group meeting on freedom of information (AKIF) on May 9th and 10th, 2023 in Bonn