LpB BW: PM - Online course "Our state, our data! The right to freedom of information and
Transparency"
 
Press Release #9 - 2022 dated February 16, 2022
 
 
Goodbye official secrets: A new online course for teaching shows how young people can exercise their right to
can use information
 

  

 

 
Our state, our data! The right to freedom of information and transparency
 
Freedom of information strengthens our democracy and already applies to young people - for this reason
the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information together with the
State Center for Political Education Baden-Württemberg (LpB) an online course for the
school teaching developed. Sascha Hamzeh’s study project of the “E-
Learning and Media Education” of the Heidelberg University of Education
In an informative and playful way, using a specific example, why young people already have their right to
information should use. It is a fundamental right derived from Article 5 of the Basic Law: "Everyone has it
Right to freely express and spread his opinion in word, writing and image and to express himself
freely accessible sources to teach.”
 
The relationship between citizens and the state is for the state center for political
Education is an elementary field of activity. LpB Director Lothar Frick: "Support with this project
we students on their educational path and show what they can do from their state
can expect and how they can exercise their right to free access to information.”
 
The state representative Dr. Stefan Brink: “Official secrecy no longer exists. For the citizenship
It is good for young people when they know that the state is there for them and that they can give answers
owed to their questions. Public bodies must issue or justify information
why, exceptionally, a request cannot be answered. Pupils
can and should use valid knowledge from public authorities.”
 
And that's what the online course is all about: The identification figures Simon and Annika guide you through the
history and want to find out why the field on the way to school is being cultivated and
what that means for environmental protection. They learn about their right to official information and
use it successfully. The contents of the Freedom of Information Act are presented in four modules
presented in a variety of methods and used as examples. There are tips how and

where you can submit an application to a public authority, which will be tested in exercises
be able. The transparency law currently being proposed in the coalition agreement is also considered a
Further development of the Freedom of Information Act discussed. With videos, information and quizzes
the course is varied and breaks into a legally complex topic
understandable level. Teachers can use it immediately via a link and a
Double lesson (recommended from 9th grade) both in the classroom and in homeschooling
shape. A guide and an information sheet provide assistance when using the
school lessons.
 
Click here for the course: https://www.elearning-
politik.net/moodle39/blocks/demologin/logindemo.php?course=Freedom of information
Further information is available at https://www.elearning-politik.de/informationsfreiheit
Disposal.
 
Contact:
Sabine Keitel, State Center for Civic Education Baden-Württemberg
Email: sabine.keitel@lpb.bwl.de, Tel. 0711/164099-32
Cagdas Karakurt, Press Office of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and the
Freedom of Information
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de, Tel. 0711/615541-23
 
 

