THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

May 27, 2022

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 Municipal data protection competition 2022

Cities, municipalities, municipal associations and district offices can

Submit suggestions by July 17 and help shape data protection.

The best ideas are awarded.

Municipalities and district offices are in constant contact with citizens

Contact. be there

many

personal

information

recorded, entered, merged and sent to other places

transmitted. This means that almost every work step must also include the

data protection should be considered.

Simple explanations and explanations help employees

and citizens

the

necessary data protection rules

better

can understand. Sometimes a new method helps

Implementation of data protection - i.e. the protection of personal data

data – to facilitate.

Looking for creative and innovative proposals, the theme

The

State representative

for data protection and

Freedom of Information

Baden-Württemberg therefore launched a competition for the first time.

Municipal bodies are cordially invited to take part in the competition

participate.

- 2 -

Ideas are needed, such as data protection in municipal affairs

conveyed even better and explained in an understandable way in the service of the citizenry

can be - for example, which data municipal authorities for what exactly

allowed to use. Also, for example, proposals can be submitted

as with employees, the implementation of data protection

can be facilitated. As competition entries, for example

Educational videos, information signs, stickers for the work PC or a

innovative data-saving technology or procedure that has been used so far

can replace extensive data processing.

Who can enter the competition?

Municipal authorities in Baden-Württemberg can take part, i.e. everyone

Cities, municipalities, municipal associations and district offices. The ideas

can be submitted to the state representative by July 17, 2022

will. An expert jury will select the best submissions

and award. The three best submissions will be awarded.

The award is public. In addition, the state representative

the competition and, if desired, the participants at his

homepage and in the forthcoming activity report. The communal

You are welcome to put your participation and performance on yours

promote websites.

Further conditions of participation and information about the competition are available

the

home page

of

State representative:

https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/municipal-data-protection-competition-2022/

 

 

