1/8

 File No.: PS/00415/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 12, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against IBERCAJA BANCO, S.A. with NIF A99319030 (in
hereafter, the party claimed).

The ground on which the claim is based is that the claimant's former brother-in-law,
(worker of the claimed entity) and his wife, on July 1, 2020,
opened an account in said entity in the name of the claimant's youngest daughter, without her consent.
consent and using for this the personal data of the claimant and his daughter,
despite the fact that the claimant is the legal representative of the minor and has the
power, as a result of the recent death of his ex-wife.

After what happened, the claimant files several claims with the entity
claimed, which acknowledges the existence of the current account and states that it was
a computer error, despite the signatures of his ex-brothers-in-law appearing on the account.

However, after the claim, the entity claimed canceled the disputed account.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on April 15, 2021, said claim was transferred to the
claimed party, to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

On May 20, 2021, this Agency received a written response from the
claimed entity, indicating that the claimant expressed his disagreement with the
opening of the savings account, number ***ACCOUNT.1, in the name of her minor daughter
age B.B.B., and in whose contract he appears as the legal representative of the owner.

Said account was opened, on July 1, 2020, by the executors-partner accountants
and administrators of the assets of the inheritance of C.C.C., deceased mother of the minor,
by virtue of the holographic will dated June 20, 2020.

In said will, the deceased designated her siblings D.D.D. and E.E.E., executors,
accountants-dividers and administrators of his inheritance, expressly excluding the
father of his daughter from the administration of the assets that she could receive for
inheritance until he came of age.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

A copy of the account contract signed by the administrators of the company is attached.
inheritance and the holographic testament where the aforementioned designation is collected, which was
notarized by the Notary of ***LOCALIDAD.1, F.F.F., dated February 3,
2021.

As can be seen from the aforementioned contract, the account is listed as the owner B.B.B., daughter
of the claimant and a minor, as authorized by the two administrators of the estate.
rence, D.D.D. and E.E.E., and the claimant, appears as the legal representative of the owner, which
that motivates its reflection in the contract even when it has been excluded from the administration
of the inheritance assets.

The claimant appears in the contractual document as the legal representative of
the minor, although the authorized persons of the account are the two administrators of the
inheritance. As the owner is a minor, the details of the
identification of your legal representative, although in this case you are not authorized to
administration of certain assets of the minor (those received from the inheritance of her
deceased mother).

A copy of the screenshot of the response of the transaction is attached, which informs about
the interveners of the account (holder and authorized), without appearing as intervener
of the same the claimant.

The administrators of the inheritance can formalize the opening of the account, without the
consent of the legal representative of the minor, in order to administer the
assets of the C.C.C. inheritance.

On December 14, 2020, the claimant filed with the Center for
Attention to the Heir diverse documentation for the processing of the inheritance of
C.C.C., such as the act of declaration of heirs and the declaration deed,
acceptance and adjudication of the intestate inheritance, documents in which no
did not refer to the holographic will or to the appointment of executors-accountants
dividers and administrators of the inheritance.

Given the discrepancy revealed between the aforementioned documents, out of caution, and
given that the account had not presented any balance or operations until that date,
it was cancelled.

Proof of account cancellation dated December 18 is attached.
of 2020 and extract of movements of the account from which the total absence is inferred
of operations in said account during the period in which it was kept open.

The act of declaration of heirs and the deed of manifestation of
inheritance provided both by the claimant to this Entity.

THIRD: On August 12, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the claim presented by the party
claimant.

FOURTH: On November 17, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Once the aforementioned initiation agreement was notified, on December 9, 2021, the
The respondent filed a pleadings statement stating the following:

The opening of the aforementioned account was formalized, on July 1, 2020, by the persons
who held the position of executors, dividing accountants and administrators of the
assets of the inheritance of C.C.C., deceased mother of the minor, by virtue of the will
holograph dated June 20, 2020 that expressly excluded from the administration
of said assets to the father of the minor, now a claimant.

In said will, the deceased designated her siblings D.D.D. and E.E.E., executors,
accountants-dividers and administrators of his inheritance, expressly excluding the
father of his daughter from the administration of the assets that she could receive for
inheritance until he came of age.
Attached as document number 1 is the account contract signed by the
executors, accountants-partners and administrators of the estate and as a document
number 2 the holographic testament where the aforementioned designation is collected.

The testator appointed in her will her brothers as executors, accountants-
dividers and administrators of the assets of the inheritance until his daughter (only
heiress and legitime) reached his majority. In turn, it expressly excludes
to the claimant of the administration of the assets of the inheritance.

The Civil Code, in its article 162.3, exempts from the legal representation of minors
res to the parents who hold parental authority for those acts related to assets
that are excluded from parental administration, by establishing the following:

“Parents who hold parental authority have the legal representation of their children
unemancipated minors.

Exceptions are:

1. The acts related to the personality rights that the child, in accordance with

his maturity, he can exercise by himself.

However, those responsible for parents will intervene in these cases by virtue of
their duties of care and assistance,

2. Those in which there is a conflict of interest between the parents and the child.

3. Those related to assets that are excluded from the administration of the parents.”

In accordance with the will of the testator, mother of the minor, upon her death
death while his daughter was a minor, the father, holder of parental authority and by
legal representative of the minor, cannot manage the assets that make up the
patrimony of the testator and therefore, in accordance with the provisions of article 162.3

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

of the Civil Code, nor can he represent the minor in any act related
with said goods whose administration has been excluded.

Then, they are the brothers of the deceased, by virtue of the testamentary dispositions,
who have the legal representation of their minor daughter in all those
acts related to the goods that make up the relict wealth, before and after their
reception by the minor, including, therefore, all those acts that could
be necessary for the conservation and administration of said assets.

Taking into account that the testator excluded the claimant from the administration of the
assets that made up his estate until his youngest daughter reached the majority of
age, the consent of the claimant would not be necessary for the opening of the
has the purpose of managing said assets. That is, in any
case, an account opened in relation to those assets would not require the consent
of the claimant for its correct formalization because those who can represent
to the minor to formalize its opening are the brothers of the deceased.

The deceased has designated in her will her siblings as executors,
accountants-participants and administrators of the estate until his daughter (the only
heiress and legitime) reaches the age of majority. In turn, it expressly excludes the
claimant for the administration of these assets.

The legal powers of the executors are included in articles 901 to 903 of the Code
Go Civil.

Thus, article 901 indicates that "The executors will have all the powers that
expressly conferred upon them by the testator, and are not contrary to law".

In addition to the legal powers conferred on the executors by the Civil Code
(art.902), and in relation to which they can carry out acts of
ordinary administration necessary for its fulfillment (for example repairs
ordinary in order to preserve the assets of the inheritance), the testator
may entrust as many powers as it deems convenient in order to execute the
his last will, as occurs in the present case in which he grants the
additional faculties of partition of the inheritance and of administration of the goods
that are part of the relict wealth, since the same people have been designated with
the powers inherent to the three positions indicated.

Among the acts necessary for the management of the administration of the assets of the
inheritance may require the opening of a bank account in which it appears as
the sole heir and heir, given that the executors, accountants, accountants and
administrators of the estate cannot appear as owners, but as
authorized.

Therefore, my client considers that, since the opening of the account was
requested by the brothers of the deceased in the scope of the faculties that her
Appointment as executors, accountants and administrators of assets
that made up the relict flow give them, also taking into account that the
legal representative of the minor had been expressly excluded from the
administration of these assets by the testator, and being necessary to open a
bank account in the name of the sole heir and in turn legitimate to carry out
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

out these faculties, the formalization of said account would not require the
consent of the father of the minor, since he would not hold the
legal representation of the minor by virtue of the provisions of article 162.3 of the
Civil Code.

The opening of an account is an act of ordinary administration or mere management
that can be found in the scope of the powers of administration of the executors
companies, in turn administrators of the assets of the inheritance, and it may be required
more to preserve or maintain the relict flow. If they request the opening of a
account for the exercise of the powers of the position they hold, given that they hold
would tempt the legal representation of the minor in all those acts related to
assets that make up the relict wealth, even when dealing with acts prior to the
acceptance of the inheritance, since for them the legal representation would not be held by the
father of the minor, it would not be necessary to have the consent of the father to
it.

For this reason, the respondent entity considers that it is appropriate to open a different account
of others that the minor could already dispose of, and on which said administrators
administrators would not have any power, as an act of administration related to
the goods that are part of the relict flow.

SIXTH: On December 16, 2021, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigation actions, as well as the documents provided by the
reclaimed.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant denounces that the entity claimed has opened an account for
name of her minor daughter, without her consent and using the data
of the claimant and his daughter, despite the fact that the claimant is the
legal representative of the minor and has parental authority, as a result of the recent
death of his ex-wife.

SECOND: The claimed entity states that it opened the account
at the request of the administrators of an inheritance of which the minor is the beneficiary.

It states that the administrators can formalize the opening of the account, without the
consent of the legal representative of the minor, in order to administer the
assets of the C.C.C. inheritance.

This is so, since in accordance with article 162.3 in accordance with the
article 901 both of the Civil Code,
the executors, accountants and
administrators of the estate, in this specific case the siblings of the deceased,
can formalize the opening of the account, within the scope of their powers, without requiring
for this, the consent of the father of the minor who, despite holding the country
authority and legal representation of the minor in general, given that it has been
expressly excluded from the administration of the assets of the inheritance, become
the siblings of the deceased, by virtue of the testamentary dispositions, who
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

have the legal representation of their minor daughter in all those acts
related to the goods that make up the relict flow, before and after their
reception by the minor, including, therefore, all those acts that could
be necessary for the conservation and administration of said assets.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights, in its article 4.11 defines the consent of the
interested party as "any manifestation of free will, specific, informed and
unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a
clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

In this sense, article 6.1 of the LOPDGDD, establishes that "in accordance with the
provided in article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, consent is understood
affected person, any manifestation of free, specific, informed and inappropriate will.
equivocal by which he accepts, either through a statement or a clear action
affirmative, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

For its part, article 6 of the GDPR establishes the following:

"1. The processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:
nes:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;

 f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the data controller or by a third party, provided that said interests

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

interests do not prevail or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interest
cases that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested
sado be a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

Likewise, article 7 of the LOPDGDD in relation to the consent of the
minors establishes the following:

"1. The processing of personal data of a minor may only be
be based on your consent when you are over fourteen years of age.

The cases in which the law requires the assistance of the holders of the country are excepted.
power or guardianship for the celebration of the legal act or transaction in the context of which
obtain consent for treatment.

2. The treatment of the data of minors under fourteen years of age, based on the
consent, it will only be lawful if the consent of the holder of parental authority or guardianship is recorded, with
the scope determined by the holders of parental authority or guardianship.”

III

In the present case, it is reported that the entity claimed proceeded to open
of an account in the name of the minor daughter of the claimant, to proceed with the
distribution of an inheritance, considering that the claimed entity has used the
personal data of the minor to open an account without having the legitimacy
necessary for this, since the legitimacy alleged by the claimed entity is the
distribution of an inheritance that had not yet been accepted.

In response to such statements, the respondent entity has argued that its
proceedings proceeded in accordance with the will of the testator, mother of the
minor.

It is indicated that when the death of the minor's mother occurred, despite the fact that her
daughter is a minor, and the father is the holder of parental authority, he cannot
manage the assets that make up the estate of the testator, nor represent the
minor in any act related to said property whose administration has been
been excluded as manifested in the holographic will of the mother of the
minor, in accordance with the provisions of article 162.3 of the Civil Code.

Then, they are the brothers of the deceased, by virtue of the testamentary dispositions,
who have the legal representation of their minor daughter in all those
acts related to the goods that make up the relict wealth, before and after their
reception by the minor, including, therefore, all those acts that could
be necessary for the conservation and administration of said assets, enabling
the law to the claimed party for the opening of an account and therefore the treatment of
the personal data of the minor, when the cause is the purposes previously
indicated.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

Therefore, after learning of the existence of the holographic will of the
deceased mother of the minor, and that the brothers of the deceased are executors,
starting accountants and administrators of the estate in accordance with said
will accredits them to represent the minor in everything related to the inheritance and
Consequently, upon opening the account, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and claimed.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

