24.05.2022
Fine for GDPR violation

The National Supervisory Authority completed in April 2022 an investigation at the operator MEDLIFE S.A. and found a violation of the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) lit. b), paragraph (2) and para. (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation (RGPD).
The operator MEDLIFE S.A. was fined 24,721.50 lei, equivalent to 5000 EURO.
The investigation was started following a notification regarding a possible violation of the provisions of the RGPD, as a result of the identification by a natural person, of some documents containing personal data, including sensitive data, thrown in a trash bin of a administrative-territorial units. The documents attached to the notification contained personal data of some clients/patients of MEDLIFE S.A.
During the investigation, it was found that the operator MEDLIFE S.A. did not implement adequate technical and organizational measures in order to ensure a level of confidentiality and security corresponding to the processing risk, which led to the illegal access or disclosure of the personal data of MEDLIFE S.A.'s own customers. (surname, surname, CNP, medical service received, medical analysis carried out, amount paid, bank account) and of its employees (advance salary), during the period July 2020 - August 2020. Although the operator had the obligation to take measures for to ensure that any natural person who acts under his authority and who has access to personal data does not process them except at the request of the operator, it was found that he did not take the necessary measures, thus violating the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) lit. b), paragraph (2) and para. (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
At the same time, during the investigation, the operator MEDLIFE S.A. he was also applied the corrective measure consisting in the revision and updating of the technical and organizational measures implemented, including the work procedures related to the protection of personal data, as well as the implementation of measures regarding the periodic training of the persons acting under his authority, including regarding the risks involved in the processing of personal data.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P