1/61

 Procedure No.: PS/00416/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 09/03/2018, this Agency received a claim
presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant 1), against the entity MIRACLIA
TELECOMMUNICACIONES, S.L., with NIF B85623775 (hereinafter MIRACLIA or the
claimed), for the use of your personal data to make a joke using
for this from the application "***APPLICATION.1", by phone call to your mobile line
***PHONE.1 in which a person pretended to be a police officer, which took place on
day ***DATE.1. For this reason, he denounces the recording made without his knowledge or
consent, dissemination of said recording to third parties, also without your consent, and
that the call is from a hidden number. Add that the line enabled as
contact by that company is an additional fee, which entails a cost for the
interested party who intends to contact it. You confirm that you have a copy of the
recording, which was provided by the person who used the services of MIRACLIA and requests
that your data be canceled, as well as the opening of a sanctioning procedure.

This claim was transferred to the MIRACLIA entity. In response to what
manifested by claimant 1, MIRACLIA informs this Agency that the joke to which
the claimant refers to is foreign to the application “***APPLICATION.1”, in whose catalog of
jokes there are none that have to do with police.

On the treatment of personal data, it indicates that it does not store data of the
overwhelmed (hereinafter also interested or person receiving the prank call):
no recordings and no phone, which will be on the prankster's mobile device (hereinafter referred to as
also, application user or person ordering the prank call); limiting himself
to provide a service to the user of the application (the joker) who chooses the joke, enters the
recipient's telephone number and, prior acceptance of the terms and conditions, generates the
recording. MIRACLIA, therefore, has no way of knowing if the claimant has received a
“***APPLICATION.1” prank (warns that there are other similar applications),
and can only block the telephone line number of the overwhelmed, still not knowing if
has actually received the joke, or delete the URL of the recording if they have it,
something that does not happen in this case as it was not provided by claimant 1.

According to MIRACLIA, it is the prankster who can erase the recording, so the
The claimant's request must be addressed to the claimant. The action of the entity, which does not identify
annoyed people, consists in preventing the recipient of the joke from receiving
more calls in the future, blocking the phone, or deleting the recording
using the URL of the prank, which has no associated phone, and as long as the
prankster hasn't done it previously.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/61

The app user or prankster is warned twice about the

responsibility involved in making the recording.

Finally, MIRACLIA informs that since the full application of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of
Natural Persons with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and the Free
Circulation of these Data (hereinafter RGPD), has modified its operations in order to
of not keeping any type of data, leaving these in the users' phones,
being impossible to identify the overwhelmed. In the event that the latter
overwhelmed, they provided their line number, they could be blocked so that they do not
receive calls in the future.

SECOND: On 07/04/2019, this Agency received a claim
presented by B.B.B. (hereinafter the claimant 2), against the entity MIRACLIA,
noting, like claimant 1, that he has been the subject of a joke (thanks
for his vote for XXXXX) that was recorded and broadcast on social networks with the mention of his
name, carried out using the application "***APPLICATION.1" (provides the link to the
audio object of the complaint –“***ENLACE.1”, which allows access to the audio
corresponding to the call). Request removal of your telephone line number
mobile in which he received the call from the database of the responsible company and the
removal of audio from the network. It also denounces that xenophobic messages are made
of the supposed “association of friends of XXXXX”.

THIRD: The claims to which the proceedings refer were admitted to
Processing through resolutions dated 11/20/2018 (relating to claimant 1) and 08/09/2019
(the one related to claimant 2).

FOURTH: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by claimant 1, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to
carrying out preliminary investigative actions to clarify the facts
in question, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the supervisory authorities
in article 57.1 of the RGPD Regulation, and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter
LOPDGDD), to which the claim made by claimant 2 was also linked.

As a result of these actions, the report prepared by the inspection

acting reveals the following:

1. Information request made to MIRACLIA on various aspects, with
Dated 06/25/2019, a letter from said company was received at this Agency
in which he makes the following statements:

a. At the end of the prank call, the recipient hears a voiceover offering
the possibility of not allowing the generation of the file with the recording of the
joke. The speech is as follows:
"A friend of yours has played a prank on you. In case you don't want your
friend can listen, download or spread the prank, or in case they don't
want to receive more pranks, press 5 with your keyboard after the signal.
beep”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/61

They add that additionally, the joke can be eliminated knowing the url of
the recording of the prank and sending an email to ***EMAIL.1 indicating that
url.

b. Among other technical aspects, they indicate that, once the prank has been programmed, the
call is initiated from the Voice over IP servers of the one claimed in the
specified date and time.
The joker user downloads the application and accepts the terms and
conditions of it. At that moment your user profile is generated
to use a Voice over IP service and a number is assigned, the
which is rented to you while you are a user of the application and make each call.
To make use of the application, choose a prank from the catalog and enter the
prank recipient's phone and schedule a date and time, and the
Voice over IP call leaves the servers in the cloud at that time you have
programmed user prankster.
If the prankster selects to record the call (and the recipient of the call,
when receiving the call does not choose the option not to record as indicated in
the previous point), an audio file will be generated with the content of the
same. The generated audio file is available at a URL to which
only the app user prankster has access and only the
prankster on your own device where you have installed the app has
associated that content to the telephone number of the recipient of the call, since
the servers of ***APPLICATION.1 do not store any personal data of the
recipient of the call.

c. In the terms and conditions of use of the application, users are informed
prankster users that the company could delete their profiles (including
contents/recordings) after 6 months of non-use of the application.

2. In order to determine the exact operation of the application and the possible
variations incorporated in the application since the last claim, the inspector
installed the application “***APPLICATION.1” on his mobile terminal. The app consists of
3 tabs: “List” (of jokes available), “Examples” and “My jokes”. In this
last tab is where pranks made by prankster will be saved if not
they are eliminated.
It is verified that in the list of available jokes there are jokes
related to claimant 1 and claimant 2.

3. On September 6, 9 and 12, 2019, the Inspection Services of the
Agency carried out tests consisting of downloading the application
“***APPLICATION.1” in a mobile terminal and proceed to its use. As a result of
these tests were obtained the findings that are outlined in the Fact
Tried Second.

4. It has been verified that the web page “***APLICACIÓN.1.es” offers a system
free and immediate to include a phone number in the phone list
blocked. According to MIRACLIA statement, the telephone number is stored
encrypted on their systems.
A test was carried out registering the telephone number corresponding to the
second SIM of the inspector's terminal, and then an attempt was made to perform a
prank this phone number. The application did not allow the execution of the prank.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/61

5. Regarding the issue of spreading the joke, which is present in the
complaints, it should be clarified that MIRACLIA does not have any public site
where they are published or any platform for the dissemination of jokes. the jokes only
they can be spread by the prankster user by sending the link to the prank file.
audio: in the list of jokes made by the joker, next to each of the
pranks not removed by prank receiver following procedure
indicated, an icon appears to download the audio file of the recording of the
telephone conversation of the prank, another to listen to it and a third to
share it (the link to the audio file of the recording is sent through the
that has been chosen to share it - this is the only moment in which the
prankster knows the link to the audio file).

6. On 08/26/2019, the Inspection Services accessed the website
“***WEB.1”, to the URL corresponding to the recording of the joke made to the
claimant 2. It is verified that using the right button shows different
options, including playing and downloading the recording.

The current inspection includes in its report a review of the evidence of
operation of the application "***APPLICATION.1" made on the occasion of some
previous action carried out by the Agency (file E/02003/2018). With respect to
treatment by the claimed party of the personal data of the recipient, in said
report indicates the following:

YO.

YO.

YO.

Recipient's phone storage. The phone number is stored
recipient in the systems of the claimed until the moment of carrying out the
call. Prank calls can be instant or scheduled
specifying date and time of execution.
Joke recording. It remains in the systems of the claimed until the
prankster decides to delete it, the recipient of the prank decides to exercise his right of
deletion, for which you must know the web link to the prank, or as a rule
In general, a period of time of 6 months of non-use of the application established by
the claimed one.
There are no other personal data of the recipient in the systems of the claimed
of the joke additional to those reflected in the previous points I and II.

FIFTH: On 11/19/2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the MIRACLIA entity, in accordance with
the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, for the alleged infringement of articles 13 and 14
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) of the aforementioned Regulation; and for the alleged infringement
of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation;
determining that the sanction that could correspond would amount to a total of 100,000.00
euros (50,000.00 euros for each of the alleged infractions), without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.

Likewise, for the purposes provided in article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, in said agreement
At the beginning, it was warned that the imputed infractions, if confirmed, may lead to the
imposition on the MIRACLIA entity of the obligation to adopt the necessary measures to
adapt the processing operations to the personal data protection regulations
that it carries out, the information offered to its clients and the procedure through which the
they give their consent for the collection and processing of their personal data;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/61

all with the scope expressed in the Legal Foundations of the repeated agreement of
beginning of the procedure and without prejudice to what results from the investigation.

SIXTH: Once notified of the aforementioned initial agreement, MIRACLIA presented a brief of allegations in
who requests the reduction of the sanction referred to in the agreement of
opening of the procedure, taking into account the allegations made and the measures
immediate adopted. He bases his claim on the following considerations:

1. As a preliminary matter, the aforementioned entity warns that it has been the object of several
prior sanctioning procedures (for lack of consent
only), which are being reviewed before the Supreme Court, three of them already
formally admitted for processing and pending oral hearing. In these procedures,
discusses MIRACLIA's position in the personal relationship between prankster and overwhelmed by
facilitate a means of leisure between individuals, as well as the existence or not of personal data
and the legal basis of the treatment (the legitimate interest, according to the entity), because otherwise the
fact of playing a joke would not be possible. Accompany a copy of one of the resources of
cassation, in which, according to MIRACLIA, their arguments are summarized.

As a result of these cases, and the entry into force of the RGPD, it made a modification of its
systems to prevent data from being stored on MIRACLIA servers,
moving away from the idea of "treatment of personal data" and betting, according to their
demonstrations, for being a means of communication such as a telephone line. It is
an intermediary in a relationship between individuals, being the user who spends the joke the
responsible for the information. He is also the one who introduces the phone.

MIRACLIA indicates that it only provides security to the process, but is not capable of identifying the
overwhelmed or link you to any other data; does not save the phone to which the
joke does not associate it with the audio file, which is encrypted with a code. Add that
blocks the phone of the recipient of the prank when he requests not to receive them, deletes the
recording when requested and does not have phone lists of overwhelmed,
recording lists or similar.

It is something similar, says MIRACLIA, to what happens with Instagram or Twitter when an individual
takes a photo and uploads it to these social networks, which are not responsible for these
facts and, at best, enable means to request the removal of the content. Either
a company dedicated to sending surprise gifts has to ask for permission prior to
addressee. Otherwise, the activity would not be possible.

2. In relation to the claim made by claimant 1, he reiterates that the joke on the
that it refers to is not in the catalog of pranks of ***APPLICATION.1.

Regarding the second claim, it states that the interested party did not address the entity to
request the deletion of your data and that this request could be made from the moment
of the call or later, by having the URL with the recording. According to
MIRACLIA, this complaint shows that what is usually requested is the suppression of the
joke. In this case, almost three months passed, when on the same day one could
have satisfied the right.

3. About the tests carried out by the inspector:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/61

- The recording is not materialized in an audio file with its corresponding
URL until the calling user confirms that they have accepted the Terms and
Conditions a second time and generates the audio file.
- The deletion of jokes occurs with the sending of a DTMF tone during the
called, that the operators must guarantee its operation. Unfortunately in
the VoIP world (which is the technology with which operators provide the service of
sending phone calls from the servers of ***APPLICATION.1), this does not
it is always like this depending on the path that the call has followed, which is behind
of the instability that the system may have.
- The usability of deleting after holding down is something that MIRACLIA considers
intuitive because many messaging apps do it the same way. It's about already
of a usability standard for smartphones.
- The phone number for programmed pranks is stuck with the call to
realize. When this is done, it disappears from the systems. In any moment
the phone number and the recording are saved at the same time and place, with
which is impossible for there to be an association between both data. The recording file
spawns when the prankster accepts its spawn, which only occurs when the
call has ended and the prankster has not pressed the 5 key. If the prankster does not accept
the generation of the recording, there is no conversion of the audio into a file accessible via
URL and, therefore, not even the user could access the file. The audio would be a few bits
in temporary memory without generating a closed audio file.

4. On the operation of the application: the information and the legal basis that legitimizes the
data treatment.

Questions that the information can be considered personal data, since MIRACLIA is
unable to identify the overwhelmed in a simple way and without disproportionate means,
from the mobile phone number or voice files (STS 2484/2019: “a
natural person is not considered identifiable if such identification requires time or
disproportionate activities”). In this case, the only one who can identify the overwhelmed
is the user and for MIRACLIA the recipient is anonymous.

Regarding the duty of information, it states the following:

MIRACLIA adopted additional measures to guarantee the security of the information
processed and that the phone number was stored on the user's device and not on the
entity servers. Initially, the phone of the overwhelmed was stored to facilitate
any request for information from the affected party, although, according to MIRACLIA, in a
irreversible encrypted with sha-2 algorithm avoiding the use of the number for any action
that it was not to give that support, since it could only be recovered if someone (eg: the own
overwhelmed) made it easy.

At the same time, an informative note about the treatment of
data that, although it is true that the current announcement does not report everything required in the
article 14 of the RGPD, it does indicate how to oppose the processing of data and its deletion
(he insists that he considers that he does not process personal data, but, "ad cautelam", he informs and
offers guarantees).

Likewise, in the privacy policy inserted on the website and in the Terms and Conditions
The app reports the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/61

“Miraclia does not collect data from the recipients of the pranks. Miraclia's activity is the
to provide a means of telecommunications so that the owner of the telephone that is downloaded
the app, choose a prank and record it, leaving the data related to the recipient of the call
stored in the user's own terminal without Miraclia keeping information about the
recipient's phone number. Miraclia provides a storage service in the
cloud of the client's audio files and at no time does it broadcast or share with
no one that information, since it is private information of the user of the application”.

On the other hand, on the occasion of these proceedings, knowing the imputation made
for the first time in relation to the information defects, has immediately proceeded to its
remedy by completing the information offered at the end of the prank conversation
as follows:

- That someone has played a joke to have a good time for both of them.
- That for the same has used the application ***APPLICATION.1 property of
MIRACLIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS, S.L.
- That to oppose said prank reaching the prankster and to suppress it can
press key 5.
- Who has more information by pressing the 1 key.

And pressing key 1 offers a detailed explanation, also included on the web. of this
In this way, from the information that it did not provide to the interested party, it has now included:

- The identity of MIRACLIA
- The contact details of the Data Protection Officer
- The term of conservation
- The basis of legitimation
- The exercise of the rights in full, although those of opposition and
delete (and also access when requested) are now specified
formally.

This is layered information included at the end of the conversation, in the Terms and
Conditions of the app, on the entity's website and in the frequently asked questions section. Contribute
the detail corresponding to the information inserted in the “Frequently asked questions” section
from the website:

“12.- I don't want to receive any more jokes. What should I do?
If you don't want anyone you know to send you jokes again, all you have to do is enter
Block my number and include the phone number. The phone number that
enter will be blocked on the platforms so that no one can ever
send a prank from this application (or of course, any other type of action). The
No. is stored encrypted in the systems, so that no one can retrieve that
# for future use.
“16.- How can I delete a joke?
Jokes are deleted by holding down your finger for a few seconds on the joke in
question".

It clarifies, next, that the foregoing does not imply its agreement with the infraction or with the
sanction, but since this is not an aspect that has been neglected in bad faith or with
purpose of avoiding any compliance, it is included again "ad cautelam" in an
immediately for correction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/61

On the legal basis of data processing, it states the following:

Consent cannot be the legal basis for playing a joke because it is
would undermine the very fact of playing a joke or the surprise effect, as well as
It occurs in countless cases, such as sending flowers or uploading photos of friends to social networks.
social. In the latter case, the rights of deletion and opposition are guaranteed, but the
responsible for the social network does not request the consent of the people whose data is
uploaded to it by other users.

For this reason, MIRACLIA defends the origin of legitimate interest as a basis for legitimation.
ex article 6.1.f) of the RGPD. For this purpose, the corresponding test of
weighing required, following the recommendations of the extinct Working Group of the
article 29.

Moreover, it has been assessed that the legal basis is the execution of the contract between the user and
MIRACLIA, but the overwhelmed man is not a party to said contract.

It is accompanied, for these purposes, by a report that justifies the origin of the legitimate interest as
basis that legitimizes the processing of data and in which it concludes that, beyond cases
punctual in which the overwhelmed person feels annoyed (which are testimonial cases), there is no
risk to people because all security measures have been taken to
guarantee the security of the process, because the deletion of the joke is guaranteed if the
overwhelmed requesting it, the blocking of your phone and because now it has also included the
complete information.

It adds that the recording of a conversation between individuals, when the person recording is one
of the participants in the conversation, is not illegal, according to the Constitutional Court
in its judgment of November 29, 1984, STC 11/1984, when it establishes, among other things
considerations that "Whoever records a conversation of others is attentive, independently
of any other consideration, to the right recognized in art. 18.3 CE; on the contrary, who
records a conversation with another does not incur, by this fact alone, in conduct contrary to the
cited constitutional precept.

In the case of ***APPLICATION.1, the calling party is aware of the
recording of it. The user could record the conversation with a tape recorder, with the
own mobile or using applications that record conversations. Instead use
a medium (***APPLICATION.1, which provides the service). That call occurs in a
domestic environment between individuals to whom the data protection legislation does not
it affects.

If MIRACLIA, just as it had been doing until recently and is now taking up that
practice reports the recording, is providing greater guarantees (the overwhelmed
you can choose to delete the recording, delete it later, lock your phone and prevent
dissemination of the joke by the user)

5. On the measures adopted and the graduation of the sanction

MIRACLIA highlights that the claims filed with the Agency represent a
tiny percentage (0.00002%), compared to the hundreds of users it has served through

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/61

of different ways (web, final locution after the call and customer service); that
has corrected the lack of information by completing the terms provided in article 14
of the RGPD, although it considers it essential that it did offer the possibility of opposition and the
deletion of data; and that the proposed sanction would force the closure of the company, for
how much represents 25% of its turnover, which amounted to 476,000 euros in 2018,
in which losses occurred.

Requests a downward revision of the proposed sanction and, for such purposes, considers that it must
take into account the following:
. That we are in a leisure environment that does not harm the overwhelmed, nor is
misuses your personal data.
. The only data in dispute is the telephone number, which MIRACLIA does not keep, and a recording
that only the user can generate and distribute, which the entity cannot join to the non
Exist any file with phone and recording.
. That the intention has always been to comply with the norm, guarantee the security of the data and
Minimize information as much as possible.
. That it has never failed to respond to requests for deletion.
. Until the present proceeding, the infringement has focused exclusively on the
absence of consent, without imputation for non-compliance with article 14, which seems
excessive considering that it has been reporting and has proceeded to correct it.
. It has been willing to cooperate with the Agency at all times and has facilitated the
information that has been requested.
. In the process that is analyzed, the overwhelmed is always chosen by the user of the
application, who is responsible for making good use of it.
. That the question on the legal basis of the treatment is being discussed in the Court
Supreme, who will decide if the treatment is anonymous for the entity, if the
security guarantees and if it is a medium that individuals use in their lives
private.

MIRACLIA provides a copy of one of the appeals filed before the

Supreme Court in 2019, based on the following reasons:

1. Play a joke through an application or a medium in which the user is
sovereign of the information that is provided is an act developed in the domestic or
personal and therefore is excluded from the scope of protection of the regulations of
Data Protection.
2. The voice is not personal data if it does not allow its owner to be identified or if it is necessary
make disproportionate efforts to identify you.
3. The legal basis of data processing (if it is estimated that we are dealing with data
personal) by an application that provides a means of entertainment in the personal sphere
or domestic of persons is based is the legitimate interest.

SEVENTH: On the other hand, through the "Internal Market Information System" (in
hereafter IMI), regulated by Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the
Council, of October 25, 2012 (IMI Regulation), whose objective is to favor the
cross-border administrative cooperation, mutual assistance between Member States and
the exchange of information, was received in this Spanish Agency for Data Protection
(AEPD) a claim dated 07/17/2019, made by an interested party before the authority
of data protection of Slovenia (Information Commissioner). The transfer of this
claim to the AEPD is made in accordance with the provisions of article 56 of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/61

RGPD, taking into account its cross-border nature and that this Agency is competent
to act as the main controlling authority.

The aforementioned claim is made against the entity MIRACLIA, with registered office and
single establishment in Spain, in relation to the mobile application for Android
called “***APPLICATION.1”, which allows users to carry out pranks
telephone calls to third parties. The user selects a joke and a "victim", who is contacted
telephone by MIRACLIA from your own system through a hidden number
(prank call), making a recording of the conversation that is put to
disposition of the application user.

The claim reveals a possible violation of the regulations of
protection of personal data, considering that the interested party is not informed about the
recording of the prank call and there is no possibility for him to exercise the
right of deletion. It is also noted that the application itself describes the
conflicting elements.

The data processing that is carried out affects interested parties in various
Member states. According to the information included in the IMI System, in accordance
with the provisions of article 60 of the RGPD, they have declared themselves interested in this
procedure the control authorities of Belgium, Greece, Cyprus, Denmark, Saxony,
Norway, Sweden, France, Hungary, Poland, Berlin, Lower Saxony, Slovakia, Ireland and
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.

In view of the facts exposed, the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the RGPD:

. Dated 12/02/19 it is verified that through the link ***LINK.1, it can be changed
the country in which the application operates. Among these countries are both belonging to
to the European Union (Austria, Belgium, Germany, etc.) and outside it (China, United States
United States, Argentina, Brazil, South Korea, etc.). It is also found that the terms and
conditions of use of the service are written in Spanish, Italian, French, English and
German.

. On 12/03/2019 a new installation of the application is made, verifying that
In the process, it does not give the option to configure another country or another language, although the terms and
conditions of use of the service are written in Spanish, Italian, French, English and
German just like those that can be accessed on the Internet.

Through the acting inspection, the documents
called "Terms and conditions of use of the service" and "Privacy Policy". In
the latter indicates the following:

"1. INTRODUCTION
This privacy policy applies to information we may obtain from or about
you when you use the mobile application ***APPLICATION.1 (the “Mobile APP” or the “Service”)”.

“Miraclia does not collect data from the recipients of the pranks. Miraclia's activity is the
to provide a means of telecommunications so that the owner of the telephone that is downloaded

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/61

the app, choose a prank and record it, leaving the data related to the recipient of the call
stored in the user's own terminal without Miraclia keeping information about the
recipient's phone number. Miraclia provides a storage service in the
cloud of the client's audio files and at no time does it broadcast or share with
no one that information, since it is private information of the user of the application”.
  

Likewise, the aforementioned Inspection Services carried out a test consisting of
download the application on a mobile terminal. It is found that during the process of
installation the user receives the same text reproduced above about the non-collection
data of the recipients of the pranks and, among others, the following message:

“Read these legal Terms and Conditions in detail and press accept if you are over 18
years and you accept all of the stipulated. Otherwise, leave the application and
remove it from the terminal. Remember, in case you record a prank and spread it with your friends,
it is because you have requested permission from the person who has received the joke or they have given it to you.
You are solely responsible for this action.”

Immediately after this text, a button is included with the indication

"Continue".

On the other hand, the Inspection Services recorded in their report the result
of the investigative actions that gave rise to the reference procedure and the
indicated with the number E/02003/2018, in which an operating test was carried out
of the system used by the claimed party.

EIGHTH: Considering the cross-border nature of this claim, dated
03/03/2020, a draft agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure was issued, which was
subsequently transmitted (03/13/2020) through the IMI System to the control authorities
interested parties (they are outlined in said initial draft agreement, which was
duly notified to that entity on 03/12/2020), without any of them having
formulated objections to said project within four weeks of the consultation,
understanding, therefore, that there is agreement on it.

The complaint forwarded by the Slovenian data protection authority is
similar in its scope and object to those that gave rise to this sanctioning procedure,
all of them related to the mobile application for Android called
“***APPLICATION.1”. For this reason, the draft initiation agreement transmitted to the
interested authorities through IMI, formalized for the sole purpose of completing the procedure
provided for in the RGPD and LOPDGDD (articles 60 and 64, respectively), collected the same
presumed infractions and the same amount of sanction that was fixed in the agreement of
opening of this procedure.

This being the case, and taking into account that this sanctioning procedure has
as object the analysis of the operation of the application of jokes "***APPLICATION.1",
from the point of view of the protection of personal data, globally considered, and not
the specific action of MIRACLIA in relation to specific claimants, is
understands that there is no formal opening of a new sanctioning procedure from
the complaint forwarded by the Slovenian data protection authority that could
give rise to a double sanction for the same infractions, for which it was agreed
incorporation to this sanctioning procedure, to resolve in a single act according to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/61

proceed in law. Likewise, it was ordered that this procedure continue its processing
according to the cooperation mechanism contemplated in article 60 of the RGPD.

NINETH
 : On 07/14/2020, by the General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection,
 
Access the information available on the MIRACLIA entity in “Axesor”. on said website
there is a turnover in the 2018 financial year, the last financial year presented, of 475,823
euros and a result for the year of -7,364 euros. Also, it is indicated that it is a
microenterprise, with 2 employees.

According to the information that appears in the Central Mercantile Registry, the "Subscribed Capital"

amounts to 6,000 euros

TENTH: On 07/24/2020, a resolution proposal was issued in the following sense:

1. That the Director of the AEPD sanction the entity MIRACLIA, for an infraction
of articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) and qualified as very
serious for prescription purposes in article 72.h) of the LOPDGDD, with a fine for
amount of 20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros).

2. That the Director of the AEPD sanction the entity MIRACLIA, for an infraction
of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) and classified as very serious to
effects of prescription in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, with a fine amounting to
20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros).

3. That the Director of the AEPD requires the MIRACLIA entity so that, within the term
that is determined, adapts to the personal data protection regulations the operations
of treatment that it carries out, the information offered to its clients and the procedure
through which they must give their consent for the collection and treatment
of your personal data, with the scope expressed in the Foundation of Law XI of the
resolution proposal. Such adaptation must be implemented equally in all countries
of the European Economic Area in which MIRACLIA operates through the application
“***APPLICATION.1”.

The aforementioned resolution proposal was notified to the MIRACLIA entity, dated
08/03/2020, this Agency received a letter of allegations in which it requests the file of
actions based on the following considerations:

A. What MIRACLIA calls “Technical Facts”:

MIRACLIA is a telecommunications company that operates a service called
“***APPLICATION.1”, which is subject to the regulation of “communications service
interpersonal electronic communications based on numbering”.

In this regard, it warns that the service "***APPLICATION.1" is in a scenario
technical and data processing different from the one presented in previous actions of the
Agency and Ordinary Justice. In fact, the scenario of the service in force on the dates
of complaints is subject to the version of the service that has been audited by an engineer
in collegiate telecommunications (provides a copy of the corresponding report) of which
draw the following conclusions or “Final Opinion”:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/61

"1. The number-based interpersonal electronic communications service
“***APPLICATION.1” meets the attributes and characteristics defined in the Directive (EU)
2018/1972 establishing the European Electronic Communications Code
(CECE), which allow it to be classified as an electronic communications service
relationships based on numbering, as defined in article 2 (paragraphs 5 and
6) of the same.

2. The regulatory framework applicable to electronic communications services makes
a clear distinction between the production of content, which implies responsibility
editorial, and the transmission of content, which does not imply any responsibility
editorial (article 2 section 4 of the CECE and judgments of the Court of Justice
Fourth) of June 5, 2019 and June 13, 2019) of the Court of Justice of the
EU (CJEU).

3. The user of the interpersonal electronic communications service based on
numbering “***APPLICATION.1” (person who initiates the transmission) determines
unilaterally the recipient of the same, on which there is no condition whatsoever that
requires that you be a user of the “***APPLICATION.1” service but that you are a recipient
freely chosen by the former based on public numbering resources and on
whose data, public access and known by the user, is not processed
any “***APPLICATION.1”.

4. From the moment the electronic communications service begins
based on numbering, "***APPLICATION.1" is limited to facilitating the
physical means, own or third parties, for the transmission of the signal between who initiates
the transmission and the recipient of the same chosen by the latter, fulfilling the requirements
of quality, privacy, security and transparency included in the aforementioned directive.

5. “***APPLICATION.1” does not record the conversation. The recordings are
made by the user who has contracted the service of "***APPLICATION.1" (person
that initiates the transmission) in a private domain assigned exclusively to said
user (in the cloud by assigning a private URL) who, as part of
your right for your participation in editing them and by accepting the conditions
of use of “*** APPLICATION.1”, unilaterally decides to record them for personal use.

6. "*** APPLICATION.1" does not retain data of the final recipient except those that,
As a minimum, it allows you to comply with the provisions of the regulations on
data retention and provide the service to the user thereof. That is, the directive
2006/24/EC on the conservation of data generated or processed in relation to the
provision of electronic communications services, transposed in Spain by the
Law 25/2007.

7. “***APPLICATION.1” offers the possibility that persons or entities, which by
make use of networks hosted by public numbering resources can be chosen
as recipients of transmissions by users of “***APPLICATION.1”, may
request inclusion in a "black list" to inhibit the receipt of communications
electronically through the “***APPLICATION.1” service.

8. In accordance with the provisions of Considering 173 and Article 95 of the
RGPD, which establishes that said Regulation will not impose additional obligations on

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/61

natural or legal persons in terms of treatment within the framework of the provision
of public services of electronic communications in public networks of
communication in areas in which they are subject to specific obligations with the
same objective established in Directive 2002/58/CE” (Directive on privacy and
electronic communications). In this regard, it is worth bearing in mind
established in Recital 34 of Directive 2002/58/EC: “It is necessary, therefore,
regarding the identification of the originating line, protect the right of the interlocutor
who makes the call to reserve the identification of the line from which he makes
such call and the called party's right to reject calls from
unidentified lines. Therefore, the right of the user who initiates
the transmission (joker) of not presenting your telephone number to communicate it to the
recipient, since, first, user and recipient make use of public resources of
numbering and transmission is carried out through public communications networks
electronic and, secondly, it is necessary, with regard to the identification of the line
of origin, protect the right of the party making the call to reserve the
identification of the line from which you make the call and the right of the caller
called to reject calls coming from unidentified lines (Whereas 34
of Directive 2002/58/CE).

B. What MIRALCIA calls “Regulatory framework”:

1) At the service of number-based interpersonal communications
(“***APPLICATION.1”), the considerations described in article 95 of the
RGPD (“This Regulation will not impose additional obligations on people
physical or legal in terms of treatment. within the framework of the provision of services
of electronic communications in public communication networks of the Union in
areas in which they are subject to specific obligations with the same objective
established in Directive 2002/58/EC”).

2) MIRACLIA does not process the data at any time for the reasons
following:

a. These cases are outside the scope of regulation of the RGPD based on the
Considering 18 and article 2.2.c) of the RGPD, for referring to data processing
made by a natural person in the exercise of activities exclusively
personal or domestic.

b. The only person responsible for the treatment is the user of "***APPLICATION.1" and not
MIRACLIA. The user carries out the treatment directly because he is the person who,
freely, makes the necessary editing for the act of the prank (edits the prank to
to spend; enter the phone number of the overwhelmed person and press the call button;
decides whether to generate the file with the recording of the joke and, therefore, the URL of the
itself, which is personal and only known by the user). Furthermore, it is always his own
user who spreads the joke in his particular environment.
MIRACLIA only intervenes to provide the electronic communications service
interpersonal relationships based on numbering, which the user of the service has contracted.
Based on this, he proposes that the Agency go to the pranksters with the same action
sanctioning than against MIRACLIA.

c. During the whole process of the prank, the user of the application and responsible for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/61

treatment does not obtain any economic benefit, for which reason the
Considering 18 of the RGPD and article 2.2.c) cited.

3) Cite “examples” of other companies that provide electronic communications services
interpersonal relationships based on numbering and on which, according to MIRACLIA, the
The Spanish Data Protection Agency has not carried out any type of investigation or
inspection for similar reasons, in which the communications service provider
is never responsible (user of a telephone operator who calls an acquaintance and
Insults occur in communication; or who calls a public or private center to
warn about the existence of a bomb; a computer attack in which the virus uses the
communication networks and storage of digital information to infect other people;
use of an application to hold a videoconference meeting between subscribers
with public numbering, which allows the administrator to make a recording of it;
the interpersonal electronic communications service of “Burovoz” (***URL.1), which
allows its users to record telephone conversations between a user of the service and
another person, who is not a user of the "Burovoz" service, but has a telephone number
public numbering system phone. The operation of this service is
exactly the same as “***APPLICATION.1” and not only is it 100% legal but its
recordings have been and are totally valid when presenting them as evidence in a
judicial process in Spain.

4) On the subject of recordings of telephone calls made by users
of “*** APPLICATION.1”, Judgment No. 114/1984, of November 29, issued by the Chamber
Second of the Constitutional Court establishes that "Whoever records a conversation of other
attentive, regardless of any other consideration, to the right recognized in art.
18.3 CE; on the contrary, whoever records a conversation with another does not incur, for this only
fact, in conduct contrary to the aforementioned constitutional precept.”

5) Article 20 of the Spanish Constitution collects and protects the rights to: “To the
literary, artistic, scientific and technical production and creation.”, all of them framed within
of the right to freedom of expression held by all Spanish citizens in
general and the user of “***APPLICATION.1”.

6) In its final considerations, it adds that compliance with the withholding obligation
of data imposed by Law 25/2007 has allowed the entity to attend effectively and
within the times set by the RGPD to the rights of access, rectification and
cancellation that have been requested by multiple recipients of the pranks, as well as the Forces and
State Security Bodies for investigations of possible crimes.

C. In relation to the complaints outlined in the Background of this resolution, it indicates
the next:

1. The complaint filed by claimant 1 should not have been admitted for processing due to the following
reasons:

a) The claimant refers to an identity usurpation by a police officer.
b) The claimant did not contact MIRACLIA to request the exercise of the rights
ARCOPOL.
c) It is very likely that the claimant suffered a joke from some other service of the
competition, for which it requests the Agency to require the operators of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/61

telecommunications the extract of calls received in the number of the abromado.
d) On 10/30/2018, the claimant received a letter from MIRACLIA stating
notified him that "*** APPLICATION.1" did not have any joke similar to the one in its catalog
described by him and he was asked to provide the URL of that recording for his
cancellation, if out of service “***APPLICATION.1”. The claimant did not provide this information, for
what is understood is that the exercise of rights was provided sufficiently.
e) We observe in the dossier of the file that the complainant provides a recording of
WhatsApp. However, "***APPLICATION.1" never sends the content of the
jokes, since these can only be heard in the user's own application.
In addition, the files of the recordings of the pranks that users can
download to your device have a filename that is nothing like the one you
provide as proof. With what can be deduced that there may have been an act of
modification and the test should be invalidated at that time.
f) It is the intention of this company to study the possibility of filing a criminal complaint
against this man for false accusation and damage to the honor of the company.
g) For all these reasons, and given that MIRACLIA has always agreed to settle the rights of
users, ask the Agency to file this matter since it responded to the request for
access to their data and considering that, with the information available, the joke did not start
from a user of “***APPLICATION.1”.

2. MIRACLIA also considers that the claim should also have been inadmissible
filed by claimant 2 for the following circumstances:

a) The annoyed person knows perfectly well the prankster person or persons, therefore
that he should have filed the lawsuit against them and not against MIRACLIA, which does not
treatment of data of the abromado.
b) It is false that the overwhelmed person received a call at 3:30 in the morning,
since none of the pranks in “***APPLICATION.1” can be held at that time
local. In addition, "***APPLICATION.1", as an electronic communications service
interpersonal calls based on numbering, never make calls to any recipient once
the joke has occurred, since that is something that can only be done by the user of the
app.
c) The claimant did not contact MIRACLIA to request the exercise of the
ARCOPOL rights.
d) It is also false that once the access right “***APPLICATION.1” has been exercised
continue sending emails. “***APPLICATION.1” has never committed such practices nor the
commit.

D. Regarding the proven facts, MIRACLIA makes the following considerations:

  There is a website with

. Proven Fact 1: MIRACLIA owns an electronic communications service
number-based interpersonal relationships accessed through an application
named “***APPLICATION.1”.
  same name,
“***APPLICATION.1”, as a commercial information and user service that does not
is part of the electronic communications service provided by MIRACLIA nor has it been
object of complaint.
. Proven Fact 2: By virtue of the provisions of article 95 of the RGPD, users are not required to
interpersonal electronic communications services based on public resources of
numbering that identifies the manager of the call or the owner of the platform or that
indicate where to obtain information on the call or on the exercise of rights. What

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/61

it has been said “***APPLICATION.1” is an application to access a service of
interpersonal electronic communications, reserving the user of the same the right
or not to personally identify and record said call.
. Proven Fact 4: The reference to hosting the pranks on a public site is
wrong. Access to the audio is via a token-based URL as
used in thousands of private access websites (eg, the package tracking website of a
courier service or multitude of public services for the payment of fines). The URL to
that the inspector mentions is generated automatically on the server, so that when
not be a fixed or static URL can only be accessible by the user of the service
interpersonal electronic communications based on public resources whose name is
“***APPLICATION.1”. Only the sender of the joke and the recipient have access to said URL.
of the same if the emitter of the joke wants to do it (it is his responsibility).
. Proven Fact 5: in this proven fact it is indicated that through the link
***LINK.1, you can change the country in which the application operates. However, it
unknown how the Agency has accessed that pre-production platform that is a
test prototype that has never worked in production and therefore has never
could be used by an end user as an electronic communications system. The
The purpose of said prototype was to offer the electronic communications service in
multi-platform mode such as Skype, for example, which can be used with an app or
on a computer regardless of its Operating System.
. Proven Fact 9: No joke appears in any catalog of MIRACLIA jokes
supplanting any organization or person, much less the Police. There are multitudes of
other prank services that in addition to copying MIRACLIA's catalog, are likely to
They have introduced one that supplants the Police, but MIRACLIA does not know it.

E. In response to the considerations set forth in Legal Basis IV, referred to
to the definition of data processing of a personal or domestic nature, MIRACLIA performs
the following statements:

. Is personal or domestic the conversation that takes place for the provision of a service of
number-based interpersonal electronic communications. The data from
numbering are public resources on which an operator does not process. The
user of said service and on which treatment is done is who registers in the
itself and chooses the recipient of the call based on these public resources. It is said
user who records the call using complementary tools to the service
basic electronic communications. The CJEU references cited do not refer to the
case of this type of services.
In addition, it is the user who decides freely and sovereignly who directs the prank
within your known contacts or family or friends.

. It is not valid for "*** APPLICATION.1" the declaration of the Court of Justice on the aforementioned
concept, contained in the Judgment of 07/10/2018, according to which "it will not proceed to consider
that an activity is exclusively personal or domestic when its purpose is to allow
to an undetermined number of people access to personal data or when the activity
extends, even in part, to the public space and is therefore directed towards the
outside the private sphere of the person processing the data”. The
object of the service is to establish an electronic communication initiated by the prankster,
who decides to record her and have access to her private recording. Sharing it in your circle
private is the decision of the prankster, who in the T&C is warned that he can break rules
regulations according to the treatment you make of that data (yours private). The object of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/61

service is in no case the indiscriminate sharing of the recording.

. The proposal indicates that "MIRACLIA's action is essential given that, without its
contest it would not be possible to process data since it is carried out in the process.
MIRACLIA facilitates the means to make the call, facilitates the means to choose a prank, and
it provides the means to record and store a joke.” In this regard, MIRACLIA affirms that
it is logical that it be this way, since you have defined ”***APPLICATION.1” as a
number-based interpersonal electronic communications service with that
functionality and must be governed in everything related to it as described by the standards of
current regulation (Directive (EU) 2018 / 1972 establishing the European Code of
Electronic Communications (CECE), as defined in article 2, sections 5 and 6, of the
same.

F. The constitutional principle by the fact itself

“This principle has been called “personal responsibility”, which implies that only
a person can be held responsible for their own actions, that is, not to a thing
not even an animal.”
***URL.2
Following this principle and delving into what concerns us helps us to demonstrate that
***APPLICATION.1” as an interpersonal electronic communications service based on
in numbering cannot bear any responsibility for the act committed by the
user of “*** APPLICATION.1”, in the same way that you can never request
liability to a gun manufacturer for the act committed by a person doing
misuse of said gun.

G. Other final considerations

. That the URLs that can be received by the pranksters, once the
call recording, they are NOT public URLs. The URLs generated by the server software
for the user of “***APPLICATION.1” are private and cannot be indexed by users.
Search engine spiders, such as Google, Bing or Yahoo.

. That the Agency take into account File No.: TD/00007/2017, in which the
case of a person overwhelmed by the Radio4G station and the broadcast live and to the entire
radio4G audience and that ends up in the file of the performances.

. Everything stated in this writing is endorsed both in the technical audit that is now
is in the visa phase by the COIT (Official College of Engineers of
Telecommunications) as in the conditions of use that the user accepts before being able to
use the platform.

Finally, request a face-to-face hearing procedure to clarify before the
instructors / inspectors of the Agency the exposed points and warns that, in case of not
see their interests served, reserves the right to go to other higher instances
and/or judicial in Spain and in Europe.

With your brief of allegations, you provide a copy of the report corresponding to the audit
referred technique, carried out by a telecommunications engineer on 07/29/2020.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/61

This report is structured in four sections:

. Objectives and methodology of the work.
. Description of the service “***APPLICATION.1”
. Audit results
. Final opinion.

As indicated, it is based on personal interviews, practical tests of execution of
“***APPLICATION.1” on two mobile devices and the tests of the application tools
editing, recording and metadata of the content of the messages, although it does not provide details
on the development of these tests, limiting itself to listing a series of findings.

The following is indicated in the “Results of the Audit” section:

“Regarding the specific analysis of the service “*** APPLICATION.1” it has been possible to
verify the following facts:
a) Only a user registered in the service can start the conversation
“***APPLICATION.1”.
b) The user of the service “***APPLICATION.1” is the only one involved in the process that
you can freely determine the recipient of the conversation
c) To determine the addressee of the conversation, resources of
public numbering.
d) It is not required, nor is such a circumstance verified or proven by any means, that the
recipient of the conversation is a user of the “***APPLICATION.1” service.
e) Once the connection is established between the user of “***APPLICATION.1” and the recipient
of the conversation allows the direct exchange of interpersonal information through
of electronic communications networks between both people.
f) “***APPLICATION.1” offers the user who contracts said service a set of templates
preconfigured for editing a voice message.
g) The user who contracts the service "***APPLICATION.1" is the one who freely chooses between the
themselves to determine the content of the message to be transmitted.
h) The recording is made in a personal and private domain assigned exclusively to the
user of the service “***APPLICATION.1” (person who initiates the transmission), as a service
that lends “***APPLICATION.1” to the user in the cloud on their own premises.
i) The recording domain offered by “***APPLICATION.1” to the user of said service is
a private and secure domain.
j) The final decision on whether or not to record the message on your domain
private falls exclusively on the user of the service "***APPLICATION.1".
k) “***APPLICATION.1” offers the user who contracts said service a set of
interactive metadata tools to carry out possible actions on the
edited message.
l) “***APPLICATION.1” offers any person or entity that is part of a
use of public numbering resources the possibility of joining “black lists”, to
stop receiving calls from users of “***APPLICATION.1”.
m) In fact, certain numbers of the public numbering plan are included by
defect in said “black list” (091, 061, 112, 092, etc.).
n) “*** APPLICATION.1” facilitates the physical means, own or third parties, for the transmission
of the signal between who initiates the transmission and the recipient of the same that you have chosen.
o) "*** APPLICATION.1" does not retain data of the final recipient except those that, with
character of minimums, allows you to comply with the provisions of the regulations on retention of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/61

data".

In the section above the one indicated, the label as "Description of the service
***APPLICATION.1”, the information provided by MIRACLIA to the auditor engineer is summarized,
which literally coincides with the "facts" that are detailed as a result of the audit.

The aforementioned report includes an Annex II, related to the "Initial premises and regulations
reference". This Annex refers to the definition of communication service
interpersonal electronics introduced by the European Electronic Communications Code
(CECE), which are those that allow the exchange of interpersonal information and
interactively through electronic communication networks between a finite number of
people, in which the people who initiate or participate in the communication determine their
recipients, and add the following:

“In the conditions of use of the application ***APPLICATION.1 in article 6 it is indicated that
“As with any telecommunications service, it is illegal to use the services of
***APPLICATION.1 for the purpose of harassing or harming anyone.” There is therefore a
contractual declaration that ***APPLICATION.1 is a service subject to the regulation of
telecommunications and, therefore, an implicit acknowledgment that it is a service of
electronic communications in such a case.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data in this procedure are considered the following,

PROVEN FACTS

1. The MIRACLIA entity is the owner of the mobile application and web service called
“***APPLICATION.1”. This application allows users to perform pranks
telephone calls to third parties. The user selects a joke and a "victim", who is contacted
telephone by MIRACLIA from your own system through a hidden number
(prank call), making a recording of the conversation that is put to
disposition of the application user.
 
The use of the mobile application and web services mentioned is regulated in the document called
"Terms and Conditions of Use of the Service", which is declared reproduced in this act to
probative effects. The content of this document includes the following:

<<By using the Service, you will be bound by the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy
Privacy, expressly accepting its compliance and entering into force a legal contract
binding on us…if you do not agree to these Terms of Use and/or
Privacy Policy We recommend that you uninstall the application from your terminal.

3. Service definition
***APPLICATION.1 is an application that allows the user to send jokes consisting of
a pre-recorded audio file via telephone to the destination selected by the user. The
The user will be able to select from a list of jokes and indicate both the destination line
such as the time you want the recipient to receive the prank. Once the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/61

joke, the application has the functionality to share and record the audio file (in
forward the "Recording"), notwithstanding which, it will be an essential requirement that the user
have the express consent of the person who has received the joke to be able to
obtain it and then make use of it.
(…)
NOTE: Since the personal data of the recipient of the call is stored
solely and exclusively in the terminal of the user of the application (client), in the event that
he deletes the application on his terminal or deletes the data associated with it on his terminal,
it may stop working in the sense that the deleted information disappears from the
same.
(…)
5. Payment services
The use of the application may incur a cost...
The amounts purchased will expire after 6 months without using the application. At that moment,
user content may be removed.
6. Use of the services offered
Through these Terms and Conditions of Use of the Service, the User contracts
with MIRACLIA a leisure and entertainment service that allows the User to send jokes
phone calls to a recipient and then play, download, or share the prank.
With the acceptance of these Terms and Conditions of Use of the Service, the User
of ***APPLICATION.1 assumes the following responsibilities:
(…)
b) Share and record pranks
The User, as the owner of the recording, is fully responsible for obtaining the
express and unequivocal consent of the person who has received the joke, for the
recording and broadcasting.
The laws allow the recording of any telephone conversation as long as it is counted.
with the consent of at least one of the two parties involved in it. A
user may not download a Recording without obtaining the prior consent of the
recipient of it. The operation of the Service prevents the generation of a
Recording if the user of ***APPLICATION.1 does not expressly accept such prior condition.
In order to share jokes publicly, the Service requires that the person
shares the joke has obtained permission to do so from all participants in the
call. MIRACLIA is not responsible for the consequences of non-compliance with the
Obtaining the necessary consents to share the Recording, falling on
him the obligation to indemnify third parties or MIRACLIA from any claim arising
of their actions.
(…)
8. Limitation of liability
MIRACLIA responsibilities:
MIRACLIA acts only as an intermediary between the sender and the receiver of the prank.
MIRACLIA does not decide at any time on the purpose, content and use of the treatment
of the recording and, therefore, cannot be held responsible for it.
(…)
If the recipient of the joke (as the owner of the data and exercising their right to object or
cancellation) or the sender of the prank (as the owner of the recording) request
MIRACLIA cancellation of the recording, automatically the recording is removed from the
servers that provide service to MIRACLIA.
However, prior to the exercise of the right of opposition or cancellation by the
receiver, the prank could have been downloaded to the User's device, being already

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/61

said recording outside the scope of MIRACLIA and, therefore, the entity is not
responsible for the use, disclosure, modification that the User makes of it.
(…)
9. Data protection
We have established a Privacy Policy to explain how we collect and use
information about you (the user)…>>.

2. The Inspection Services of the Agency, dated September 6, 9 and 12, 2019,
carried out tests consisting of downloading the application on a mobile terminal and
proceed to its use by arranging for prank calls to be made. As a result of
The following findings were obtained from these actions:

. During the installation process, the user receives, among others, the following messages:

“Read these legal Terms and Conditions in detail and press accept if you are over 18
years and you accept all of the stipulated. Otherwise, leave the application and
remove it from the terminal. Remember, in case you record a prank and spread it with your friends,
it is because you have requested permission from the person who has received the joke and they have given it to you.
You are solely responsible for this action.”

“Miraclia does not collect data from the recipients of the pranks. Miraclia's activity is the
to provide a means of telecommunications so that the owner of the telephone that is downloaded
the app, choose a prank and record it, leaving the data related to the recipient of the call
stored in the user's own terminal without Miraclia keeping information about the
recipient's phone number. Miraclia provides a storage service in the
cloud of the client's audio files and at no time does it broadcast or share with
no one that information, since it is private information of the user of the application” (this
paragraph is also included in the privacy policy).

Immediately after these texts, a button with the indication “Continue” is included.

. The application “***APPLICATION.1” consists of 3 tabs: “List” (jokes available),
“Examples” and “My jokes”. In this last tab the pranks made by
the joker, if they are not eliminated.

. The phone number of the incoming prank call appears as “Private Number” in
all cases.

. In the version installed for testing, the latest available in the app store
for Android operating systems "Play Store", the joker, has no option to choose whether the
joke is recorded or not. The joke is always recorded, unless the receiver
decide to delete it following any of the procedures established for it. If this doesn't
occurs, the recording remains in MIRACLIA's systems until the prankster decides
eliminate it or, as a general rule, for a period of time of 6 months after the use of
the application, established by the entity itself.

. At no time throughout the phone conversation is the application identified
***APPLICATION.1 as manager of the call nor to the developer company MIRACLIA
as the owner of the platform. Therefore, the receiver of the prank does not know where
You should go to get more information about the call or exercise your rights.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/61

. At no time is the joker quoted.

. Nor is it reported at any time, during the development of the joke, that the
conversation is being or may be recorded.

. It is verified that at the end of the joke the following locution is heard: "A friend of yours
he played a joke. In case you don't want your friend to be able to listen, download
or spread the joke, or in case you don't want to receive any more jokes, press 5 with your keyboard
after the signal. beep”

From the end of the joke until the locution occurs, a space of
silent time of 10 seconds.

. The “deletion” of the prank recording and the inability to continue receiving pranks
pressing key 5 once the signal indicated in the final announcement has been heard, it has been unstable
in the tests carried out. On one occasion when the 5 key was pressed before the signal and
another later, the mechanism failed; on two other occasions when it was pressed only once
after the signal, it was removed successfully. It was found that there is no confirmation
deletion of the prank, simply, when approximately 10 seconds elapse
from the indicated signal to press the key 5, the communication is cut off.

In cases where the deletion worked correctly, the prank disappears from the list
of pranks made by the prankster, therefore not being able to be shared, downloaded or
heard. It has also been verified that the telephone number was blocked for the
receiving more jokes.

. In the list of pranks made by the prankster, next to each of the pranks not
eliminated by the receiver of the prank following the indicated procedure, three
icons: one to download the audio file of the recording of the telephone conversation
of the joke, another to listen to it and a third to share it. In the latter case, it
send the link to the audio file of the recording through the chosen medium
to share it. This is the only time the prankster knows the link to the file
audio.

. In the event that the prankster leaves his finger pressed on a certain prank in the
list of pranks performed, a pop-up window appears offering the possibility of
remove the audio file from MIRACLIA systems, but this action is not as
intuitive like the previous three as it lacks a specific icon.

. In the saved pranks, there is the destination phone number, type of prank, date and
completion time.

. Uninstalled the application and reinstalled again, it is observed that the phone numbers
of the pranks made appear as “?????????”, which suggests that
this data is stored locally, and not on MIRACLIA's servers.

. Prank calls can be instant or scheduled by specifying date and time.
execution time. In this case, the recipient's phone is stored in the
the MIRACLIA entity until the moment of making the call. In this regard, MIRACLIA

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/61

has declared in his allegations that the telephone number of the recipient of the prank remains
queued with the call to make, which disappears from your systems when the call
is done.

The acting inspector scheduled a prank on his terminal for deferred execution and
then said terminal was turned off. The call was made at the scheduled time,
which turns out that the phone was stored in the MIRACLIA systems until
time to run the prank (minutes, hours, days or months)

. For the suppression of the recording there are only two options: that the prankster follows the
deletion procedure described from the application; or request it from MIRACLIA,
difficult issue for the affected considering that it is not shown in any
moment who manages the call, nor the company responsible for it. Also, for
The affected person will need to know the link to the audio file and does not have this either.
information, unless provided by the user (the joke can be eliminated by knowing the
url of the recording and using the mechanism enabled on the web together with the request for
telephone line number blocking).

3. MIRACLIA offers on its website "***APLICACIÓN.1.es" a free and immediate system for
include a phone number in the list of blocked phones.

Through the current inspection, a test was carried out, registering in said system the number
telephone number corresponding to the second SIM of the acting inspector's terminal.
Subsequently, a prank was attempted on that phone number and the application did not
allowed his execution.

4. MIRACLIA does not have a platform where the jokes made are published
so that any third party can access, but the recordings of the pranks are
are housed in a public site, which enables access to them through the
link to the audio file, which can be broadcast indiscriminately by the user
joker.

5. On 12/02/19 it is verified that through the link ***LINK.1, you can change
the country in which the application operates. Among these countries are both belonging to
to the European Union (Austria, Belgium, Germany, etc.) and outside it (China, United States
United States, Argentina, Brazil, South Korea, etc.). It is also found that the terms and
conditions of use of the service are written in Spanish, Italian, French, English and
German.

6. On 12/03/2019, an installation of the application is carried out, verifying that the
process does not give the option to configure another country or another language, although the terms and conditions
of use of the service are written in Spanish, Italian, French, English and German, the
same languages that are available when accessing the web over the Internet.

7. Claimant 1 has stated that, on ***DATE.1, he received on his line of
mobile phone ***PHONE.1 a prank call through the application
“***APPLICATION.1”, in which a person pretended to be a police officer. He denounces that the
call was recorded and broadcast to third parties without your knowledge or consent; and that the
call occurs from a hidden number.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/61

8. Claimant 2 has stated that, on ***DATE.2, she was the subject of a call
phone prank carried out using the application "***APPLICATION.1", which was
recorded and disseminated on social networks with the mention of his name without his permission (provides
the link to the audio object of the complaint “***LINK.1”)

On 08/26/2019, the Inspection Services accessed the website
“***APLICACIÓN.1.es”, to the URL corresponding to the recording of the joke made to the
claimant 2. It is verified that using the right button shows different
options, including playing and downloading the recording.

9. The Agency's Inspection Services have verified that the reported pranks
by claimants 1 and 2 are listed in the prank catalog of available at
“***APPLICATION.1”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each Authority of
Control, and according to what is established in articles 47, 48, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the regulatory provisions issued
in its development and, as long as they are not contradicted, on a subsidiary basis, by the rules
general administrative procedures.”

II

Article 56.1 of the RGPD, regarding the "Competence of the supervisory authority

main”, states the following:
 
"1. Without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the supervisory authority of the main establishment
or of the only establishment of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment will be competent to
act as the lead supervisory authority for cross-border processing carried out by
said person in charge or person in charge in accordance with the procedure established in article 60”.

Said article 60 regulates the "Cooperation between the main control authority and the

other interested control authorities”:
  
"1. The main control authority will cooperate with the other control authorities concerned
agreement with this article, striving to reach a consensus. control authority
principal and the control authorities concerned shall exchange any relevant information.
2. The main control authority may at any time request other authorities of
Control interested parties that provide mutual assistance in accordance with article 61, and may carry out
joint operations under Article 62, in particular to conduct investigations or
supervising the application of a measure relating to a controller or a processor
established in another Member State.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/61

3. The main control authority shall promptly notify the other control authorities
relevant information in this regard. It shall promptly transmit a draft decision
to the other interested control authorities to obtain their opinion on the matter and will have
due account of their views.
4. In the event that any of the interested control authorities raises an objection
relevant and reasoned information on the draft decision within four weeks of the
consultation in accordance with paragraph 3 of this article, the main supervisory authority shall submit the
matter, in the event that it does not follow what is indicated in the pertinent and motivated objection or considers that said
objection is not relevant or is not motivated, to the coherence mechanism contemplated in article
63.
5. In the event that the main supervisory authority plans to follow what is indicated in the relevant objection
and motivated received, it will present to the opinion of the other interested control authorities a
revised draft decision. This revised draft decision will be submitted to the procedure
indicated in section 4 within a period of two weeks.
6. In the event that no other interested supervisory authority has objected to the
draft decision transmitted by the main supervisory authority within the period indicated in the
paragraphs 4 and 5, it will be considered that the main control authority and the control authorities
Stakeholders agree to and are bound by that draft decision.
7. The main control authority shall adopt and notify the decision to the main establishment or to the
sole establishment of the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment, as appropriate, and will inform
the decision to the control authorities concerned and to the Committee, including a summary of the
pertinent facts and motivation. The supervisory authority to which a complaint has been filed
claim will inform the claimant of the decision.
(…)
12. The main control authority and the other interested control authorities will be provided
reciprocally the information required within the framework of this article by electronic means,
using a standardized form.

On the issues regulated in these precepts, what is indicated is taken into account

in Recitals 124, 125, 126 and 130 of the RGPD.

In accordance with the provisions of the previous regulations, in the present
course, referring, among others, to a claim filed with the control authority of
a Member State (Slovenia), in relation to processing in the context of
activities of a single establishment of a controller that affect or are likely to
substantially affect data subjects in more than one Member State (data processing
cross-border), the main control authority, in this case the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, is obliged to cooperate with the other interested authorities.

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in application of the powers that
conferred by the RGPD, is competent to adopt the decisions designed to produce
legal effects, whether it is the imposition of measures that guarantee compliance with the
regulations or the imposition of administrative fines. However, it is required to involve
closely and coordinate the control authorities interested in the decision-making process
decision-making and take their opinion into account to the fullest extent. It is also established
that the binding decision to be adopted is jointly agreed upon.

Article 60 of the RGPD regulates this cooperation between the control authority
principal and the other control authorities concerned. Section 3 of this article
expressly establishes that the main supervisory authority will transmit to the other
control authorities concerned, without delay, a draft decision to obtain their
opinion on the matter and will duly take into account their points of view, following for
this the procedure provided for in sections 4 and following. Control authorities
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/61

interested parties have a period of four weeks to formulate reasoned objections
about the draft decision, it being understood that there is agreement on said draft if
no authority submits objections within the indicated period, in which case all of them
are bound by the repeated project.

The aforementioned article 60, paragraph 12, provides that the main supervisory authority and the
other interested control authorities will reciprocally provide each other with the information
required within the framework of this article by electronic means. It is up to do it
through the “Internal Market Information System” (IMI System).

On the other hand, article 58.4 of the RGPD establishes that the exercise of powers
conferred on the control authority must respect the procedural guarantees established in
the law of the Union and of the Member States.

The Spanish procedural regulations, specifically, Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (LPACAP), establishes
that sanctioning procedures will always be initiated ex officio by
agreement of the competent body, which must contain, among other indications, the
identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible, the facts that
motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible qualification and the sanctions that could
correspond

In accordance with the rules expressed above, considering the nature
cross-border of this claim, dated 03/03/2020, a draft agreement was issued
start of sanctioning procedure, which was later transmitted through the System
IMI to the interested control authorities, which are listed in the background,
without any of them raising objections to said project within four
weeks from the consultation, understanding, therefore, that there was agreement on it.

On the other hand, section 4 of the aforementioned article 64 of the LOPDGDD establishes that
The processing times established in this article will be automatically
suspended when it is necessary to collect information, consultation, request for assistance or
mandatory pronouncement of a body or agency of the European Union or of one or more
several control authorities of the Member States in accordance with the provisions of the
RGPD, for the time between the request and the notification of the pronouncement to the
Spanish Data Protection Agency.

III

This procedure is initiated by virtue of the claims received in this
Agency against the entity MIRACLIA, in which those affected (overwhelmed) denounce the
use of your personal data to make a joke using for it the
application “***APPLICATION.1”, by means of a telephone call to their mobile telephony lines.
The recording made of the call without the knowledge of those affected and the
dissemination of said recording to third parties, also without your consent.

The procedure, therefore, aims at the global analysis of the application
“***APPLICATION.1” from the point of view of data protection regulations
personal and in relation to the people receiving the prank calls.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/61

  Any analysis of the position of the users of the application is omitted
(pranksters), as well as the information that MIRACLIA offers to them and the
treatment of your personal data.

In accordance with the foregoing, the conclusions that could be derived from this
procedure will not imply any pronouncement regarding the previous aspects
discarded.

IV

Previously, it is appropriate to consider the allegation made by MIRACLIA in
relation to the position he occupies, in his opinion, in the personal relationship between joker and
overwhelmed. The aforementioned entity considers that its intervention is limited to providing a means of
leisure between individuals, which acts as an intermediary in a relationship between individuals.

In accordance with this approach, MIRACLIA understands that the regulations of
protection of personal data is not applicable to this case, because spending a
joke through an application or a medium in which the user is sovereign of the
information that is provided is an act developed in the domestic or personal sphere and, therefore,
therefore, excluded from the scope of protection of said regulations as established in the
article 2.2 of the RGPD and article 2.2.a) of the LOPDGDD. It says to article 2.2 of the RGPD:

"two. This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data:
c) carried out by a natural person in the exercise of exclusively personal activities or
domestic”.

This Agency, on the other hand, considers that the actions of the entity complained against

can be included in this exception for three reasons:

. MIRACLIA is not a natural person: article 2.2.c) of the RGPD, when establishing the exception
indicated, expressly refers to the processing of personal data carried out by a
Physical person.
. Your activity is carried out in connection with a professional or commercial activity. I know
constituted as a limited company, for profit and commercial nature.
. The RGPD applies in full to those responsible or in charge of the treatment that
provide the means to process personal data related to activities
personal or domestic (if indeed it was).

On these issues, recital (18) of the GDPR states the following:

“This Regulation does not apply to the processing of personal data by a person
physical activity in the course of an exclusively personal or domestic activity and, therefore, without connection
some with a professional or commercial activity. Personal or domestic activities include
include correspondence and keeping an address book, or activity on networks
social networks and online activity carried out in the context of said activities. However, the
This Regulation applies to those responsible or in charge of the treatment that provide the
means to process personal data related to such personal or domestic activities”.

We are facing business activities, with a business model based on

in carrying out pranks through an application in exchange for a price.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/61

In order to define what should be considered treatment of an exclusively
personal or domestic, although in this case the application of those
precepts without entering into that analysis, it is convenient to take into account the
CJEU doctrine stated in the Lindqvist, Rynes and Jehovah's Witnesses judgments
(STJUE of July 10, 2018, C-25/17).

In accordance with these rulings, it can be considered that the CJEU understands, with
general character, that the exception of activities of an exclusively personal or
domestic must be interpreted in a strict sense, only when the processing of data
"incidentally" affects the private life or intimacy of "other people", other than the
responsible for processing personal data. It is also said by the Court that the
character of personal or domestic activities is not defined exclusively by opposition
to the dissemination of data, as MIRACLIA seems to indicate, but rather that this dissemination implies that
a treatment of personal data related to the private or family life of individuals does not
may be considered excluded from the protective regulations, so there may be other
cases in which even treating personal data of a personal or domestic nature, this does not
could be understood as included within the exception provided for in article 2.2 c) of the RGPD.

It is not possible to lose sight of the processing of personal data that is carried out in
the present case: it consists of a telephone call, to a telephone of a third person,
whose voice, when answering the call, is recorded in MIRACLIA's technical system.
As can be seen, in this case it is not that the privacy or intimacy of other people
is "incidentally" affected, but the very purpose of this data processing is,
precisely, the voice of the third person who is called. That is, the treatment of
personal data of the third party called is not a mere "incidental" annoyance within
a more general data treatment, but that the use of your personal data is
precisely the goal of treatment. Therefore, it cannot be considered in any case that
said data processing of the voice of the overwhelmed is merely incidental, but is
It is a “main” treatment.

The STJUE of July 10, 2018, C-25/17, Jehovah's Witnesses, establishes a
interpretation about the concept of exclusively personal or domestic activities
and it says like this:

42 As the Court of Justice has held, Article 3(2), second indent, of Directive
95/46 must be interpreted in the sense that it contemplates only the activities that are registered
within the framework of the private or family life of individuals. In this regard, it will not be appropriate to consider
that an activity is exclusively personal or domestic, for the purposes of said precept, when
is intended to allow an indeterminate number of people access to personal data or
when the activity extends, even in part, to the public space and is therefore directed
outside the private sphere of the person processing the data (see,
in this sense, the judgments of November 6, 2003, Lindqvist, C-101/01, EU:C:2003:596,
section 47; of December 16, 2008, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi and Satamedia, C-73/07,
EU:C:2008:727, paragraph 44, and of December 11, 2014, Ryneš, C-212/13, EU:C:2014:2428,
paragraphs 31 and 33).

In the case of MIRACLIA, it turns out that the "overwhelmed" natural persons transfer
information to said entity, since the voice of the overwhelmed person is recorded in the application
proportionate, and likewise those who are going to be pranksters also transmit it to MIRACLIA,
because they provide you with the recipient telephone numbers of the calls you will make
said entity. This telephone number is registered in the entity's systems until the completion of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/61

the call, the conversation is recorded for the purpose of providing a content service
multimedia that is accessed through mobile devices, offering the possibility
to play, download and share the audio file. This means first of all that
such activity is directed outside the prankster's personal and private sphere, into the
interpretation of the CJEU, which excludes it in any case the exception "exclusively
personal and private.

It follows that natural persons "pranksters" would transmit personal data to
MIRACLIA, which registers (that is, "treats" said data) by recording them. But MIRACLIA
also "treats" in its systems the telephone number of said third parties,
potentially (when not materially) being able to establish a link between a
a certain phone number and a certain voice recorded on their systems. Namely,
MIRACLIA carries out personal data processing to which it cannot be applied in any
case the exception to which we refer.

But, in addition, although initially there is no link between MIRACLIA and
the "victim", a data processing consisting of a record of the
people who don't want to be teased anymore.

MIRACLIA's performance is essential given that, without its help, it would not be possible to
data processing carried out in the process. MIRACLIA facilitates the means to make the
call, provide the means to choose a prank, and provide the means to record and store
a joke, which means that it determines the treatment means and ends, organizes,
encourages and coordinates the activities of pranksters through your application
***APPLICATION.1, and thus participates, together with the pranksters, in determining the
purpose and means of the processing of personal data of the affected.
In addition, MIRACLIA, "attending to its own objectives" (commercial) influences the
pranksters and encourages it, so it must be held responsible,
together with the pranksters, of the data processing that is carried out by the
overwhelmed people.

v

Another of the preliminary issues raised by MIRACLIA has to do with the
existence or not of personal data. Questions that the information can be considered data
personal, since MIRACLIA is unable to identify the overwhelmed in a
simple and without disproportionate means, and points out that the only one who can identify the
overwhelmed is the user, who is anonymous to the entity.

He adds that he is not able to identify the overwhelmed person or link him to any other
data and that the voice is not personal data if it does not allow its owner to be identified or if it is
disproportionate efforts are required to identify it.
 

The RGPD defines the concept of “personal data” in its art. 4.1) as: “all
information about an identified or identifiable natural person ("the data subject"); I know
An identifiable natural person is considered to be any person whose identity can be determined,
directly or indirectly, in particular by means of an identifier, such as a
name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or one or
various elements of physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/61

cultural or social status of that person.

In accordance with these definitions, information relating to persons
recipients of the jokes that are carried out using the application
"***APPLICATION.1" collected by the MIRACLIA entity conforms to the definition of data
personal. In addition to the telephone number, MIRACLIA proceeds to also record the voice
of the people harassed through the opportune recording of the prank, susceptible to
be disseminated, in addition to other user data.

In relation to voice recording, Report 497/2007 of the Legal Office of
this Agency affirms that “sound recordings will allow the identification of a person,
even more so if that recording is attached to a file and therefore will be included in the file.
scope of application of the LOPD”. In the same sense, the Court has declared
National.

To the latter, add that the ruling of the National High Court dated 03/19/2014
(rec.176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes personal data, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD, as
<<any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons>>,
This is a non-controversial question”.

This is a broad concept that can include objective information, such as
It can be, for example, the name and surnames, or subjective information, such as
be the assessment of an examiner in a professional examination. The CJEU has understood this,
for example, in the STJUE of December 20, 2017, C-434/16, Peter Nowak.

That the RGPD considers the voice as personal data is undeniable. The opinion
4/2007, of June 20, 2007, on the concept of personal data (WP136), of the Group of
art work 29, likewise collects it, with examples. In example 2, on Banking
telephone, says: "In telephone banking operations, in which the voice of the customer who
gives instructions to the bank is recorded on a tape, the recorded instructions must be
considered as personal data. In the same way, both this Opinion 4/2007, and
Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of biometric technologies (WP193) establish
that the voice can be both personal data, raw, and also used with techniques
biometrics

So that this acoustic characteristic of the human person can be considered
personal data, the RGPD determines that said information must refer to a person
identified or identifiable physical person, and considers an identifiable person to be one whose identity
can be determined, directly or indirectly through said personal data.

MIRACLIA starts from an erroneous premise, which consists in considering that
We are dealing with personal data because the MIRACLIA entity itself could not identify the
person whose voice is recorded (i.e., the "interested", the overwhelmed) since it does not store
the recipient's number.

This argument is wrong. The data protection regulations (Considering 26
of the RGPD) starts from the basis of a comprehensive protection of the fundamental right of
protection of data of the natural person, therefore, as we have already reasoned above,
exceptions must be interpreted strictly and the concept of data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/61

broad-minded staff.

Recital 26 of the RGPD, in the part that is of interest now, reads as follows:

“The principles of data protection should apply to all information relating to a person
identified or identifiable physical Pseudonymized personal data, which could be attributed to a
natural person through the use of additional information, should be considered information about
an identifiable natural person. To determine whether a natural person is identifiable, one must take into account
taking into account all means, such as singularization, that can reasonably be used by the
responsible for the treatment or any other person to identify directly or indirectly the
Physical person".

As can be seen, the GDPR considers a person to be identifiable
when said person can be identified either by (i) the data controller, or
good by (ii) any other person.

As we have seen before, the “joker” could be considered as responsible
treatment together with MIRACLIA, so that being so, there is no doubt that the
Prankster can identify the voice of the person receiving the prank call. But,
Even if the prankster is not considered responsible for the treatment, it would be
considered as a "third party other than the person in charge", and the RGPD considers, even
in that case, that the "prankster" is a person identifiable by the "prankster", which
determines that the data of the voice of said identifiable person must be considered data
staff.

The data protection regulations, therefore, do not restrict the concept of "personal data".
personal" or "identifiable person" exclusively in the event that the person responsible for the
treatment is who can identify, directly or indirectly, the interested party whose data
are treated (the overwhelmed), but extends its perimeter of protection beyond said
circumstance and considers that if said person (the overwhelmed), as a consequence of the
means made available to the prankster by the person in charge (MIRACLIA), -such as the
singularization (by the voice, for example)-, can be identified, directly or indirectly,
by "any other person" other than the person responsible, (and this even though said overwhelmed person is not
identifiable for the person in charge, since it is not required to be so) considers said
information as personal data referring to a natural person, and therefore it is applicable
data protection regulations.

In the event that it is considered that there are two joint controllers with respect to
of the same treatment, the CJEU has taken care to emphasize that the protection regulations
of data does not require or imply that each of them has access to personal data in
matter, so there may be some of those responsible who, without having access to the
personal data will continue to be responsible (see section 69 of the judgment of 29
July 2019, C-40/17, Fashion ID, which in turn cites section 29 of the judgment of 5
June 2018, C-210/16, Wirtschaftakademie Schleswig-Holstein, and paragraph 65 of the
Judgment of July 10, 2018, C-25/17, Jehovah's Witnesses).

Article 5 “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/61

“1. The personal data will be:

a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party ("lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency");
b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be further processed in
manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89, paragraph 1, the treatment
further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific and historical or statistical purposes shall not be considered incompatible with the initial purposes
(“purpose limitation”);
c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed (“data minimization”);
d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; All reasonable steps will be taken to
Personal data that is inaccurate with respect to the data is deleted or rectified without delay.
purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);
e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties for no more than the
necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; personal data may
be kept for longer periods as long as they are treated exclusively for archival purposes
in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes, in accordance with
Article 89(1), without prejudice to the application of technical and organizational measures
appropriate measures imposed by this Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
interested party (“limitation of the retention period”);
f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the personal data, including
protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss, destruction or damage
accident, through the application of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality").

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of section 1
and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”)”.

In relation to the aforementioned principles, what is stated in the

Considering 39 of the aforementioned RGPD:

“39. All processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For individuals, you must
be absolutely clear that they are being collected, used, accessed or otherwise processed
personal data that concerns them, as well as the extent to which said data is or will be processed.
The principle of transparency requires that all information and communication regarding the processing of
said data is easily accessible and easy to understand, and that simple and clear language is used.
This principle refers in particular to the information of the interested parties on the identity of the
responsible for the treatment and the purposes of the treatment and to the information added to guarantee a
fair and transparent treatment with respect to the affected natural persons and their right to
obtain confirmation and communication of the personal data that concern them that are the object of
treatment. Natural persons must be aware of the risks, standards,
safeguards and the rights related to the processing of personal data as well as the way of
assert their rights in relation to the treatment. In particular, the specific purposes of the
processing of personal data must be explicit and legitimate, and must be determined in the
time of collection. Personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is
necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. This requires, in particular, ensuring that
Limit your retention period to a strict minimum. Personal data should only be processed if the
purpose of the treatment could not reasonably be achieved by other means. To ensure that
personal data is not kept longer than necessary, the data controller must
establish deadlines for its deletion or periodic review. All measures must be taken
reasonable steps to ensure that inaccurate personal data is rectified or deleted.
Personal data must be processed in a way that guarantees security and confidentiality
of personal data, including to prevent unauthorized access or use of said data.
data and the equipment used in the treatment.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/61

7th

Article 4 of the RGPD, under the heading "Definitions", provides the following:

“2) «treatment»: any operation or set of operations carried out on personal data or
sets of personal data, whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection,
registration, organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation,
use, communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of authorization of access,
collation or interconnection, limitation, suppression or destruction”.

In accordance with these definitions, the use that said entity makes of the
information (personal data) that it collects from the harassed person constitutes a
processing of personal data, in respect of which the controller must comply with
the principles established in article 5.1 of the RGPD, according to which personal data
will be "treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party (legality,
loyalty and transparency)”; and developed in Chapter III, Section 1, of the same Regulation
(articles 12 and following).

Article 12.1 of the aforementioned Regulation establishes the obligation of the person responsible for
treatment to take the appropriate measures to “provide the interested party with all information
indicated in articles 13 and 14, as well as any communication in accordance with the
articles 15 to 22 and 34 regarding the treatment, in a concise, transparent, intelligible and
easily accessible, with clear and simple language, in particular any information addressed to
child. The information will be provided in writing or by other means, including, if applicable,
by electronic means. When requested by the interested party, the information may be provided
verbally provided that the identity of the interested party is proven by other means.

Article 13 of the aforementioned legal text details the “information that must be provided
when the personal data is obtained from the interested party” and article 14 of the same
Regulation refers to the “information that must be provided when the personal data
have not been obtained from the interested party”.

In the first case, when the personal data is collected directly from the
interested party, the information must be provided at the very moment in which that
data Collect. Article 13 of the RGPD details this information in the terms
following:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the person in charge of the
treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide all the information indicated to
continuation:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of his representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis of the treatment;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests of the
responsible or a third party;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if applicable;
f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third country or
international organization and the existence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission,
or, in the case of transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1,
second paragraph, reference to the adequate or appropriate guarantees and the means to obtain a
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/61

copy of these or the fact that they have been lent.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller shall provide the
interested, at the time the personal data is obtained, the following information
necessary to guarantee fair and transparent data processing:
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when this is not possible, the criteria
used to determine this term;
b) the existence of the right to request access to personal data from the data controller
related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the
treatment, as well as the right to data portability;
c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9, paragraph 2,
letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting
to the legality of the treatment based on the consent prior to its withdrawal;
d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a necessary requirement
to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide personal data and is
informed of the possible consequences of not providing such data;
f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, referred to in
article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information on the logic
applied, as well as the importance and the anticipated consequences of said treatment for the
interested.

3. When the data controller plans the further processing of personal data for a
purpose other than that for which they were collected, will provide the interested party, prior to said
further processing, information about that other purpose and any additional information relevant to the
of section 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and to the extent that the
interested party already has the information”.

In the second case, when the personal data is not obtained from the interested party, the

information that must be provided to it is established in article 14 of the RGPD:

"1. When the personal data has not been obtained from the interested party, the data controller
will provide you with the following information:
a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of his representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if any;
c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended, as well as the legal basis for the processing.
treatment;
d) the categories of personal data in question;
e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
f) Where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a recipient in a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of an adequacy decision
the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in articles 46 or 47 or article 49,
section 1, second paragraph, reference to the adequate or appropriate guarantees and the means to
obtain a copy of them or the fact that they have been loaned.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the data controller shall provide the
interested party the following information necessary to guarantee a fair treatment of data and
transparent with respect to the interested party:
a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when this is not possible, the
criteria used to determine this term;
b) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the legitimate interests of the
data controller or a third party;
c) the existence of the right to request access to personal data from the data controller
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/61

related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation of its treatment, and to oppose the
treatment, as well as the right to data portability;
d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article 9, paragraph 2,
letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting
to the legality of the treatment based on the consent before its withdrawal;
e) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;
f) the source from which the personal data comes and, where appropriate, if they come from access sources
public;
g) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, referred to in
article 22, paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, significant information on the logic
applied, as well as the importance and the anticipated consequences of said treatment for the
interested.

3. The controller will provide the information indicated in sections 1 and 2:
a) within a reasonable period of time, once the personal data has been obtained, and at the latest within a
month, taking into account the specific circumstances in which said data is processed;
b) if the personal data is to be used for communication with the interested party, no later than the
time of the first communication to said interested party, or
c) if it is planned to communicate them to another recipient, at the latest at the time the data
personal data are communicated for the first time.

4. When the person in charge of the treatment projects the subsequent treatment of the personal data for
a purpose other than that for which they were obtained, will provide the interested party, before said
further processing, information about that other purpose and any other relevant information indicated in
section 2.

5. The provisions of sections 1 to 4 shall not apply when and to the extent that:
a) the interested party already has the information;
b) the communication of said information is impossible or supposes a disproportionate effort,
in particular for processing for archiving purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, subject to the conditions and guarantees indicated in the
Article 89, paragraph 1, or insofar as the obligation mentioned in paragraph 1 of the
This article may make it impossible or seriously impede the achievement of the objectives of such
treatment. In such cases, the person in charge will adopt adequate measures to protect the rights,
liberties and legitimate interests of the interested party, including making the information public;
c) the obtaining or communication is expressly established by the Law of the Union or of the
Member States that applies to the data controller and establishes measures
adequate to protect the legitimate interests of the interested party, or
d) when the personal data must remain confidential on the basis of a
obligation of professional secrecy regulated by the Law of the Union or of the Member States,
including an obligation of secrecy of a statutory nature”.

For its part, article 11.1 and 2 of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

“Article 11. Transparency and information to the affected
1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the data controller may give
compliance with the duty of information established in article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
providing the affected party with the basic information referred to in the following section and indicating
an electronic address or other means that allows easy and immediate access to the
remaining information.

2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at least:
a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.
b) The purpose of the treatment.
c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the Regulation (EU)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/61

2016/679.
If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for profiling, the
basic information will also include this circumstance. In this case, the affected party must be
informed of their right to oppose the adoption of automated individual decisions that
produce legal effects on him or significantly affect him in a similar way, when he attends
this right in accordance with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

In relation to this principle of transparency, it is also taken into account
expressed in Recitals 32, 39 (already outlined), 42, 47, 58, 60 and 61 of the RGPD. I know
reproduces below part of the content of these Considerations:

(32) Consent must be given through a clear affirmative act that reflects a manifestation of
free, specific, informed, and unequivocal will of the interested party to accept data processing
of a personal nature that concern you…

(42) …For the consent to be informed, the interested party must know at least the
identity of the data controller and the purposes of the processing for which the data is intended.
personal information…

(47) The legitimate interest of a data controller, including that of a data controller
may communicate personal data, or of a third party, may constitute a legal basis for the
treatment, provided that the interests or the rights and freedoms of the interested party do not prevail,
taking into account the reasonable expectations of the interested parties based on their relationship with the
responsible… In any case, the existence of a legitimate interest would require an evaluation
meticulous, even if a data subject can reasonably foresee, at the time and in the
context of the collection of personal data, which may be processed for this purpose. In
In particular, the interests and fundamental rights of the interested party may prevail over the
interests of the data controller when processing personal data
in circumstances in which the interested party does not reasonably expect that a treatment will be carried out
subsequent…

(58) The principle of transparency requires that all information addressed to the public or the interested party be
concise, easily accessible and easy to understand, and that clear and simple language is used, and,
In addition, in your case, it is displayed...

(60) The principles of fair and transparent processing require that the data subject be informed of the
existence of the processing operation and its purposes. The data controller must provide the
interested as much additional information as necessary to guarantee a fair treatment and
transparent, taking into account the specific circumstances and context in which the
personal information. The interested party must also be informed of the existence of the preparation of
profiles and the consequences of said elaboration. If personal data is obtained from
interested parties, they must also be informed of whether they are obliged to provide them and of the consequences
in case they didn't...

(61) Data subjects should be provided with information on the processing of their personal data in
the time they are obtained from them or, if obtained from another source, within a reasonable time,
depending on the circumstances of the case...

The Constitutional Court, among others, in its STC 39/2016, of March 3, with appointment
in turn of the STC 292/2000, of November 30, has established that the right of
information is part of the essential content of the right to data protection. Thus, in
its FJ2, from STC 39/2016, states:

“The duty of prior information is part of the essential content of the right to protection of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/61

data, as it is an essential complement to the need for consent of the affected party.
The duty of information on the use and destination of personal data required by the Organic Law of
protection of personal data is closely linked to the general principle of
consent for the processing of data, because if its purpose and recipients are not known,
consent can hardly be given. Therefore, when assessing whether the
right to data protection for breach of the duty of information, the waiver of
Consent to data processing in certain cases must be an element to take into account.
given the close link between the duty of information and the general principle of
consent.
(…)
Thus, they are characteristic elements of the constitutional definition of the fundamental right to
protection of personal data «the rights of the affected party to consent to the collection and use of their
personal data and to know about them. And they are essential to make this
content the recognition of the right to be informed of who owns your personal data and with
what purpose, and the right to be able to oppose that possession and use, requiring whoever it corresponds to
terminate the possession and use of the data. In other words, requiring the owner of the file to inform
of what data you have about your person, accessing your appropriate records and seats, and what destination
have had, which also reaches potential assignees; and, where appropriate, require you to
rectify or cancel them” (STC 292/2000, of November 30, FJ 7)”.

MIRACLIA does not inform the interested party at any time, that is, the overwhelmed person, of the
content of your rights in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD. This determines that the
The processing of data that it carries out in no case can be considered lawful.

Article 12.1 of the RGPD establishes that said information must be provided "by
written"; Only if requested by the interested party, the information may be provided verbally, always
that the identity of the interested party be proven by other means. In the present case, there has been no
there has been no information in writing, nor has the identity of the interested party been
proven by any means.

Article 13.1 of the RGPD establishes that “when they are obtained from an interested party
personal data relating to him” (as is the case, since the call is made to the
overwhelmed and therefore the personal data, your voice, comes directly from the overwhelmed),
the person in charge of the treatment, "at the moment in which these [the data] are obtained",
will provide all the information indicated below in that section.

As can be seen from the facts of the file, MIRACLIA has not informed
previously of any of said circumstances to the overwhelmed, so that the
fundamental right to data protection of the overwhelmed, who have not had
knowledge, prior to the recording that MIRACLIA always performs of your data in
their systems, of the circumstances that the regulations establish that they must know.

The affected person answers a phone call, which will be recorded, not only without
having been able to give their consent, but without having been informed, at that time, of
so that you are aware of the treatment that is intended to be carried out with your data
and the circumstances required by the regulations for the protection of the right
fundamental. Among these circumstances, it is worth highlighting the one provided for in letter c) of section
1 of said article 13 of the RGPD: the interested party must be informed at the time of
obtaining your personal data, among other circumstances, from the legal basis of the
treatment, to which it is possible to add what is established in letter d), that is, that when the
treatment is based on art. 6, section 1, letter f) -legitimate interest-, the
interested party what are the legitimate interests of the person in charge or of a third party that are alleged
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/61

as a legal basis for processing.

This lack of information on what is the legal basis of the treatment or in case of
claim legitimate interest, what are those legitimate interests, is of great importance. The
RGPD intends that the interested party (the overwhelmed) may have knowledge at that time
(at the time of collecting your personal data) what are the legitimate interests
that are hypothetically alleged by the controller to process your personal data without
need for your consent. It is at this moment when it will have to be done by the
responsible for the treatment the weighting between the legitimate interests that could be
claim by the person in charge and the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of their personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child. Such weighting cannot be done at a later time,
unilaterally by the controller, without taking into account the rights, freedoms and interests
of the overwhelmed himself, for it is simply enough to say that he would be denied not only his right to
information, but their right to make allegations, to be heard before the claim of the
responsible for using your personal data without your consent (because that is
precisely the virtuality of the use of legitimate interest as a legal basis for
treatment, and what MIRACLIA intends here as data controller).

The CJEU ruling of July 29, 2019, C-40/17, Fashion ID, establishes the
guidelines of who would correspond, in any case, to request the consent of the
interested in the event that there are two, or more, data controllers. As well as
It also determines who is responsible for the information obligation to the interested party, and
When should this information be given? And from this sentence it turns out that, applying it to the
present case, it would correspond to MIRACLIA.

Sections 102 to 104 of the Fashion ID ruling establish:

“102 With regard to the consent mentioned in articles 2, letter h), and 7, letter a), of
Directive 95/46, it turns out that this must occur prior to collection and communication by
transmission of data of the interested party. In these circumstances, it is up to the site administrator to
Internet, and not the provider of the social module, request such consent, to the extent that it is
the fact that a visitor consults that Internet site which triggers the process of
treatment of personal data. Indeed, as the Advocate General pointed out in point 132 of his
conclusions, it would not be consistent with an effective and timely protection of the rights of the interested party
that the consent was only given to the co-responsible for the treatment that intervenes
subsequently, namely to the supplier of said module. However, the consent that must be
lend to the administrator refers only to the operation or to all the operations of
processing of personal data whose purposes and means are effectively determined by said administrator.
103 The same can be said with respect to the information obligation established in article 10 of
Directive 95/46.
104 From the wording of that provision it is clear, in this regard, that the person responsible for the
treatment or its representative must inform the person from whom the data is collected by what
minus the information mentioned in the aforementioned provision. Therefore, it turns out that the person responsible
of the treatment must give said information immediately, that is, at the moment in which it is
collect the data (see, in this sense, the judgments of May 7, 2009, Rijkeboer,
C-553/07, EU:C:2009:293, section 68, and of November 7, 2013, IPI, C-473/12, EU:C:2013:715,
paragraph 23)”.

As is known, there is no unlimited right and the right to information of the
interested, as an essential part of the fundamental right to the protection of your data
personal, is not alien to this principle. Now then, as an exception it will have to be

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/61

interpreted strictly, so that only in the cases established by
the law may be understood that there may be an exception to the right to information.

As established in section 39 of the STJUE of November 7, 2013, C-
473/12, Institut professionnel des agents immobiliers (IPI) v. Geoffrey Englebert and others,
which we will refer to later:

39 According to settled jurisprudence, the protection of the fundamental right to privacy requires
that the exceptions to the protection of personal data and the restrictions to such protection are
established without exceeding the limits of what is strictly necessary (decisions of December 16
2008, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi and Satamedia, C-73/07, Rec. p. I-9831, section 56, and of 9 of
November 2010, Volker and Markus Schecke and Eifert, C-92/09 and C-93/09, Rec. p. I-11063,
paragraphs 77 and 86).

The only limitations to the right to information are found in article 23 of the
RGPD and express legislative measures are needed to agree on them, respecting in all
case the essential rights and freedoms, and provided that the assumptions assessed
that are listed in the provision.

Although in reference to consent, MIRACLIA has indicated that it cannot
address some regulatory provisions because the very fact of spending
a joke or the surprise effect. However, nothing has been alleged regarding the limitations
indicated, nor do they appear to be applicable to the present case. MIRACLIA not
does not mention any legislative measure that entails the possibility of exceptions in the case
of the application ***APPLICATION.1 the fundamental right to data protection
personal information of the interested party, the overwhelmed one, so that any subsequent analysis would lack
sense. In addition, the possibility of exempting through legislative measures the rights
fundamental rights of individuals are of such importance as the security of the state, the
defense, public safety, the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offenses etc. So that in no case said possibility of excluding the
right of information of the interested party is tied to the possibility of playing jokes through
of an online application, nor to a commercial interest, so there can be no
commercial interests that serve as justification for the concerned-absorbed to be
deny your right to be informed in the terms of article 13 RGPD.

Therefore, the performance of MIRACLIA is not excluded from the obligation to
provide interested parties with the right to information, with the content established in the
article 13 RGPD, at the time the personal data is obtained from the interested party.
When the personal data is obtained from the interested party, in no case said information
can be provided later, let alone never be given, as is the case here
occupies us. In short, the interested parties must in any case be informed so that the
treatment can be considered lawful, which has certainly not been the case.

The same can be said about compliance with the provisions of article 14 of the
RGPD, which regulates the information that must be offered to the interested party when the data is not
are collected directly from it, as occurs in relation to the telephone number
mobile of the overwhelmed, which is provided to MIRACLIA by a third party, the joker.

In general, no information is offered by MIRACLIA to the interested/affected person (person
who receives the prank call) in the documents “Terms and Conditions of Use of the
Service” and “Privacy Policy”, beyond indicating that “Miraclia does not collect data from the
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/61

recipients of the jokes”, which, as has been seen, is not true.

The only information addressed to the overwhelmed person results from the locution that is reproduced

end of the prank call, with the following message:

"A friend of yours has played a prank on you. In case you don't want your friend to be able to
listen to, download or spread the joke, or in case you do not want to receive any more jokes,
press 5 with your keyboard after the signal. Beep”.

As can be seen, in said locution it is not specified that the joke was
recorded and that, through the indicated action, be erased from the entity's systems. Nope
otherwise, details about none of the aspects established in the
articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD.

On the other hand, at no time during the telephone conversation did
identifies the application ***APPLICATION.1 as manager of the call or the company
developer MIRACLIA as the owner of the platform, so that the recipient of the
prank does not know where to go for more information about the call or
exercise your rights; at no time is the joker quoted; and I don't know either
informs at no time, during the development of the joke, that the conversation is
being or may be recorded.

Consequently, the exposed facts suppose a violation of the principle of
transparency regulated in articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD, which gives rise to the application of
the corrective powers that article 58 of the aforementioned Regulation grants to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Finally, it should be noted that MIRACLIA has argued that, due to the
present proceedings, knowing the accusation made for the first time in relation to the
information defects, has immediately proceeded to correct them by completing the
information offered at the end of the prank conversation as follows:

- That someone has played a joke to have a good time for both of them.
- That for the same has used the application ***APPLICATION.1 property of
MIRACLIA TELECOMMUNICATIONS, S.L.
- That to oppose said prank reaching the prankster and to suppress it can
press key 5.
- Who has more information by pressing the 1 key.

And pressing key 1 offers a detailed explanation, also included on the web.

In this way, from the information that was not provided to the interested party, it has now included:

- The identity of MIRACLIA
- The contact details of the Data Protection Officer
- The term of conservation
- The basis of legitimation
- The exercise of the rights in full, although those of opposition and
delete (and also access when requested) are now specified
formally.

He does not, however, provide any proof of this; not even the text or recording
of the phrase inserted at the end of the conversation, so that it can be assessed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/61

correctly the supposed information offered. And neither does MIRICLIA point out anything about
of the precautions adopted to ensure that the interested party has effectively agreed
to the information or on the measures that it will apply in those cases in which it is interrupted
communication before the reproduction of the locution.

viii

On the other hand, articles 6 and 7 of the same RGPD refer, respectively, to the

“Legality of treatment” and the “Conditions for consent”:

Article 6 of the RGPD.
"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:
a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data for one or more
specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party is a party or for
the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the person in charge
of the treatment;
d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person;
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the
exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued by the
responsible for the treatment or by a third party, provided that said interests do not prevail
interests or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that require the protection of
personal data, in particular when the data subject is a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment carried out by the
public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

2. Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions in order to
adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation with regard to the treatment in
compliance with section 1, letters c) and e), establishing more precisely specific requirements of
processing and other measures to ensure fair and lawful processing, including other
specific treatment situations under chapter IX.

3. The basis of the treatment indicated in section 1, letters c) and e), must be established by:
a) Union law, or
b) the law of the Member States that applies to the data controller.
The purpose of the treatment must be determined in said legal basis or, in relation to the
treatment referred to in section 1, letter e), will be necessary for the fulfillment of a mission
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the person responsible for the
treatment. This legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt the application
of rules of this Regulation, among others: the general conditions that govern the legality of the
treatment by the controller; the types of data object of treatment; the interested
affected; the entities to which personal data can be communicated and the purposes of such
communication; purpose limitation; the terms of conservation of the data, as well as the
processing operations and procedures, including measures to ensure a
lawful and equitable treatment, such as those related to other specific situations of treatment under
of chapter IX. The Law of the Union or of the Member States will fulfill an objective of interest
public and will be proportional to the legitimate aim pursued.

4. When processing for a purpose other than that for which the personal data was collected
is not based on the consent of the interested party or on the Law of the Union or of the States
members that constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a democratic society to
safeguard the objectives indicated in article 23, paragraph 1, the controller, with

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/61

in order to determine if the treatment for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which they were collected
initially the personal data, will take into account, among other things:
a) any relationship between the purposes for which the personal data were collected and the purposes
of the envisaged further treatment;
b) the context in which the personal data were collected, in particular as regards the
relationship between the interested parties and the data controller;
c) the nature of the personal data, specifically when special categories of data are processed
personal, in accordance with article 9, or personal data relating to convictions and offenses
criminal, in accordance with article 10;
d) the possible consequences for data subjects of the envisaged further processing;
e) the existence of adequate guarantees, which may include encryption or pseudonymization”.

Article 7 of the RGPD.
"1. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the person in charge must be
able to demonstrate that he consented to the processing of his personal data.

2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a written statement that is also
refers to other matters, the request for consent will be presented in such a way that it is distinguished
clearly from other matters, in an intelligible and easily accessible manner and using clear language
And simple. Any part of the declaration that constitutes an infringement of this document will not be binding.
Regulation.

3. The interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any time. The withdrawal of
consent will not affect the legality of the treatment based on the consent prior to its
withdrawal. Before giving their consent, the interested party will be informed of it. It will be so easy to remove the
consent how to give it.

4. In assessing whether consent has been freely given, account shall be taken to the greatest extent
possible whether, among other things, the performance of a contract, including the provision of a
service, is subject to consent to the processing of personal data that is not necessary
for the performance of said contract.

It takes into account what is expressed in recitals 32, 39, 40 to 44 and 47 of the RGPD

in relation to the provisions of articles 6 and 7 above.

It is also appropriate to take into account the provisions of article 6 of the LOPDGDD:

“Article 6. Treatment based on the consent of the affected party
1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is understood
By consent of the affected party, any manifestation of free will, specific, informed and
unequivocal by which he accepts, either by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you.
2. When it is intended to base the processing of the data on the consent of the affected party for a
plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state specifically and unequivocally that said
Consent is granted for all of them.
3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the treatment of the data.
personal data for purposes that are not related to the maintenance, development or control
of the contractual relationship.

In accordance with what has been expressed, data processing requires the existence of a
legal basis that legitimizes it, such as the consent of the interested party validly provided,
necessary when there is no other legal basis mentioned in article 6.1
of the RGPD or the treatment pursues a purpose compatible with that for which the data were collected.
data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/61

Article 4 of the GDPR defines "consent" in the following terms:

“Article 4 Definitions
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following shall be understood as:
11. «consent of the interested party»: any expression of free, specific, informed and
unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through a declaration or a clear action
affirmative, the treatment of personal data that concerns you”.

Consent is understood as a clear affirmative act that reflects a
free, specific, informed and unequivocal manifestation of the interested party's
accept the treatment of personal data that concerns you, provided with
sufficient guarantees to prove that the interested party is aware of the fact that he gives his
consent and the extent to which it does so. And it must be given for all the activities of
treatment carried out with the same or the same purposes, so that, when the treatment
has several purposes, consent must be given for all of them in a specific and
unequivocal, without the execution of the contract being subject to the consent of the affected party.
the processing of your personal data for purposes that are not related to the
maintenance, development or control of the business relationship. In this regard, the legality of the
Treatment requires that the interested party be informed about the purposes for which the data is intended.
data (informed consent).

Consent must be given freely. It is understood that consent
is free when the interested party does not enjoy a true or free choice or cannot refuse or
withdraw your consent without prejudice; or when you are not allowed to authorize by
separate the different personal data processing operations despite being adequate
in the specific case, or when the fulfillment of a contract or provision of service is
dependent on consent, even when consent is not necessary for said consent.
compliance. This occurs when consent is included as a non-part
negotiable of the general conditions or when the obligation to be in compliance is imposed.
agreement with the use of personal data in addition to those strictly necessary.

Without these conditions, the provision of consent would not offer the data subject a
true control over your personal data and its destination, and this would make it illegal
treatment activity.

The Article 29 Working Group analyzed these issues in its document
“Guidelines on consent under Regulation 2016/679”, revised and
approved on 04/10/2018; which has been updated by the European Committee for the Protection of
Data on 05/04/2020 through the document “Guidelines 05/2020 on consent
in accordance with Regulation 2016/679”. From what is indicated in this document, it is now interesting
highlight some aspects related to the validity of consent, specifically
on the elements “specific”, “reported” and “unequivocal”:

<<3.2. Specific declaration of will
Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), confirms that the consent of the interested party for the treatment of
your data must be given "for one or more specific purposes" and that an interested party can choose with
for each of these purposes. The requirement that consent must be “specific”
Its purpose is to guarantee a level of control and transparency for the interested party. This requirement has not
been modified by the GDPR and remains closely linked to the requirement of
informed consent". At the same time, it must be interpreted in line with the requirement of
"dissociation" to obtain "free" consent. In short, to fulfill the character of
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/61

“specific” the data controller must apply:

i) specification of the purpose as a guarantee against deviation from use,
ii) dissociation in consent requests, and
iii) a clear separation between the information related to obtaining consent for the
data processing activities and information relating to other matters.

Ad. i): In accordance with article 5, paragraph 1, letter b), of the RGPD, obtaining the
Valid consent is always preceded by the determination of a specific, explicit and
legitimate for the intended treatment activity. The need for specific consent in
combination with the notion of purpose limitation in Article 5(1)(b),
works as a guarantee against the gradual expansion or blurring of the purposes for which it is
performs the processing of the data once an interested party has given their authorization for the collection
initial data. This phenomenon, also known as diversion of use, poses a risk
for the interested parties since it may lead to an unforeseen use of personal data by the user.
responsible for the treatment or third parties and the loss of control by the interested party.
If the data controller relies on Article 6(1)(a), the data subjects
They must always give their consent for a specific purpose for data processing. In
in line with the concept of purpose limitation, with article 5, paragraph 1, letter b), and with
recital 32, the consent may cover different operations, provided that said
operations have the same purpose. Needless to say, specific consent can only
obtained when the interested parties are expressly informed about the intended purposes for the use of
the data that concerns them.
Without prejudice to the provisions on the compatibility of purposes, the consent must be
specific for each purpose. The interested parties will give their consent on the understanding that they have control
about your data and that these will only be treated for those specific purposes. If a person in charge treats
data based on consent and, in addition, you want to process said data for another purpose, you must
obtain consent for that other purpose, unless there is another legal basis that better reflects the
situation…
Ad. ii) Consent mechanisms should not only be separated in order to fulfill the
requirement of "free" consent, but must also comply with the consent
"specific". This means that a data controller seeking consent to
several different purposes, you must facilitate the possibility of opting for each purpose, so that users
may give specific consent for specific purposes.
Ad. iii) Finally, data controllers must provide, with each data request,
separate consent, specific information on the data that will be processed for each purpose, with the
in order that the interested parties know the repercussion of the different options that they have. of this
In this way, data subjects are allowed to give specific consent. This issue overlaps with the
requirement that controllers provide clear information, as set out above
in section 3.3>>.

<<3.3. Manifestation of informed will
The GDPR reinforces the requirement that consent must be informed. In accordance with the
article 5 of the RGPD, the requirement of transparency is one of the fundamental principles,
closely related to the principles of loyalty and legality. Provide information to
data subjects before obtaining their consent is essential for them to be able to make decisions
informed, understand what they are authorizing and, for example, exercise their right to withdraw
Your consent. If the person in charge does not provide accessible information, the control of the user will be
illusory and consent will not constitute a valid basis for data processing.
If the requirements regarding informed consent are not met, the consent will not be
valid and the person in charge may be in breach of article 6 of the RGPD.

3.3.1. Minimum content requirements for consent to be “informed”
In order for the consent to be informed, it is necessary to communicate to the interested party certain elements
that are crucial to be able to choose. Therefore, the WG29 believes that it is required, at least, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/61

following information to obtain valid consent:
i) the identity of the data controller,
ii) the purpose of each of the treatment operations for which consent is requested,
iii) what (type of) data will be collected and used,
iv) the existence of the right to withdraw consent,
v) information on the use of data for automated decisions in accordance with the
article 22, paragraph 2, letter c), when relevant, and
vi) information on the possible risks of data transfer due to the absence of a
decision of adequacy and adequate guarantees, as described in article 46>>.

In the present case, MIRACLIA affirms in its arguments that consent does not
can be the legal basis for playing a joke, thereby understanding that the treatment
of the personal data of the abromados that it carries out is protected by the legitimate interest of the
article 6.1.f) of the RGPD.

However, that is not what emerges from the information inserted in the
document called "Terms and Conditions of Use of the Service" (Proven Fact
Second), in which it is indicated up to three times that the user must have the
express and unequivocal consent of the person who has received the joke so that
the recording can be made and the audio file can be shared later, as a requirement
of operation of the service ("The operation of the Service prevents the generation of
a Recording if the user of ***APPLICATION.1 does not expressly accept such condition
previous"). In said document, MIRACLIA expressly declares that "it is not responsible
of the consequences of failure to obtain the necessary consents
to share the Recording”.

In other words, MIRACLIA bases the processing of personal data directly on the

consent of the "overwhelmed", which must be obtained by the "prankster" himself.

MIRACLIA is aware, then, that said legal basis for processing is
merely formal, fictitious. If you consider that a joke can never be based on the
consent of the abominated himself, what is indicated in his outlined document is not understood,
knowing that the prankster will never proceed to seek the consent of the overwhelmed.

On the other hand, the processing of personal data carried out by the data controller
MIRACLIA treatment in no case can be considered "lawful" since it is not
provides the interested party with the information to which, in accordance with the data protection regulations,
personal data, you have the right, as concluded in the Legal Basis
previous.

Nor can it be considered lawful from the moment in which, as there is no such
information, the interested party is deprived of his right to know the legal basis of the
treatment alleged by the person in charge, and specifically, when referring to the legitimate interest, it is seen
deprived of his right to know what are said legitimate interests alleged by the
responsible or of a third party that would justify the treatment without taking into account its
consent.

In the same way, the interested party is deprived of his right to claim for what reasons
Said legitimate interest alleged by the person in charge could be counteracted by the rights
or interests of the interested party. Not having given the interested party the opportunity to claim them
vis-à-vis the person in charge, any assessment made by the person in charge without taking into account

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/61

the circumstances that could be alleged by the interested party who has not been allowed to do so
would be vitiated, for being an act contrary to an imperative norm.

If the rule requires that the subject be informed of their rights, and this is not done, the
consequence must be the nullity of subsequent acts (the same weighting made
would be null and void, as well as the same data processing
made on a null weighting and without any value).

On the other hand, there is no legal measure that exempts said obligation to

provide the aforementioned information by the person in charge, as stated.

Therefore, it cannot be understood that it is applicable as a legal basis for the treatment

of personal data that of the legitimate interest provided for in article 6.1.f) of the RGPD.

However, although we understand that the legitimate interest is not applicable, it is of interest
hypothetically analyze the terms in which the weighing that foresees should be carried out
said article between the legitimate interest of the data controller and data protection
of a personal nature of the interested party, that is, how said legitimate interest plays, if it were
applicable.

Well, if this were the case, the CJEU, already in its ruling of May 4, 2017,
C-13/16, Rigas Satskime, paragraph 28 to 34, determined what are the requirements for a
processing may be lawful on the basis of legitimate interest. The CJEU ruling of 29
July 2019, C-40/17, Fashion ID, echoing the aforementioned ruling, collects said
requirements.

28 In this regard, article 7, letter f), of Directive 95/46 -(current article 6.1.f) of the RGPD)- establishes
three cumulative requirements for the processing of personal data to be lawful: first, that the
responsible for the treatment or the third party or third parties to whom the data is communicated pursue a
legitimate interest; second, that the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of that interest
legitimate and, third, that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party do not prevail in the
data protection.

Regarding the first of the requirements, that is, that the data controller or
third parties pursue a legitimate interest, we are faced with a commercial interest, which could
be considered legitimate in itself, focused on making money by selling jokes
To thirds. However, these benefits are obtained at the cost of affecting the rights and
legitimate interests to the protection of your personal data of the interested parties (overwhelmed),
Therefore, said interest must be weighed against that of individuals.

For what the second of the requirements does, however, we consider that the
processing of personal data that is carried out by the appellant is not necessary or
strictly necessary for the satisfaction of its legitimate interest (the cited judgment of 4
May 2017, C-13/16, Rigas Satskime, in its section 30, declares “As regards the
requirement that data processing is necessary, it should be remembered that the
exceptions and restrictions to the principle of protection of personal data
must be established without exceeding the limits of what is strictly necessary”).

This principle that processing must be strictly necessary for the
satisfaction of legitimate interest must be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of
article 5.1.c) RGPD, which refers to the principle of data minimization,
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/61

stating that the personal data will be “adequate, pertinent and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed”.

Leaving aside, as we have already mentioned, the issue that the
concerned/approached does not know for what purposes or on what legal basis their data has been collected
data, it is understood that the recording of the voice of the interested parties in the
MIRACLIA, which is carried out in all cases and in all circumstances, as well as equally, as
It has been revealed in the administrative file, that the telephone numbers of the
interested parties are saved in said systems until the call is made, it supposes a
excessive treatment. If the legitimate interest pursued is to collect so that a person, the
joker, can play a joke, it does not seem necessary, as an intrinsic requirement of said
treatment, (i) the storage of personal data (telephone and voice). can't either
considered legitimate, and therefore we consider that it would be an excessive treatment, the
possibility that the prankster will (ii) download the voice of the prankster to be able to go to
said recording as many times as you want and be able to broadcast it without any restriction, so
in addition (iii) there would be a lack of security measures that would prevent said subsequent treatment by the
joker. If what MIRACLIA intends, with a purely commercial interest, is to charge for
play a joke, such treatment could be done without the need to record the voice or the
telephone number, and without having to give the prankster the absolute and unlimited possibility of
download the voice of the overwhelmed person to your terminal in order to be able to broadcast it later without
any limitation. Therefore, the second requirement regarding non-excessive use would not exist.
or necessary.

Thirdly, with regard to weighting or weighting, that is, not
prevail the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party in the protection of the
data, the CJEU has understood (Rigas Satskime judgment) that it depends on the circumstances
of the particular case in question.

In relation to this weighting, the Working Group of art. 29 of the Directive
95/46 issued Opinion 06/2014 on the concept of legitimate interest of the person responsible for the
treatment. Said Group, in its Opinion, states that
 
“…such an examination requires a full consideration of a number of factors, in order to
ensure that the interests and fundamental rights of citizens are duly taken into account
affected. At the same time, it is a modular test, which can vary from simple to
complex, and need not be unduly burdensome.
The factors to be considered when carrying out such a balancing test
will understand:
- the nature and source of the legitimate interest, and whether the data processing is necessary for the
exercise of a fundamental right, is otherwise in the public interest or benefits from the
recognition of the affected community;
- the repercussion for the interested party and their reasonable expectations about what will happen with their data,
as well as the nature of the data and the way in which they are processed;
- the additional guarantees that could limit an undue impact on the interested party, such as the
data minimization, privacy protection technologies, increased
transparency, the general and unconditional right of voluntary exclusion and the portability of the
data.

(a) As to the nature and source of the alleged legitimate interest, this is an interest of
commercial nature, as has already been shown. The TS, in its sentence STS
1921/2017, of May 5, 2017, Rec. 407/2016, has already made it clear that it cannot
prevail the interest of gas marketers over the interest of consumers
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/61

holders of electricity supply contracts, given that the latter have a right
fundamental against a merely commercial interest, so that the person, the consumer
in this case, it has the legal power to impose on third parties the duty to refrain from any
interference in their intimate sphere and the prohibition to make use of the and known, (with
citation of the sentences of the TC 73/1982, 89/1987, 231/1988, 134/1999 and 115/2000).

(b) It should be added, continuing with the list of recommended requirements for weighting, that
the data processing that the appellant intends to carry out is not at all necessary
for the exercise of a fundamental right, so it will have to decline in the face of the
need for protection of their fundamental right by the interested parties.

(c) Nor can it be considered that the processing of personal data proposed by
MIRACLIA results from the public interest or that benefit from the recognition of the
affected community.

(d) Regarding the reasonable expectations for the interested party regarding the use of
his personal data and the repercussions for him, it is enough to mention that with the treatment of
personal data that the appellant intends to carry out, the interested party loses all power of
disposition on them, since the data is registered by system, before being able to give
their consent or even to be informed, so the prankster-user will be able to do
use of the personal data of the abromado, his voice, downloading it in his own terminal and
subsequently disseminating it among other third parties whenever and however you want, and this with
regardless of whether the interested-overwhelmed person can make use of a hypothetical right to
blocking or deleting your data against MIRACLIA, which, as it can easily
observed from the mechanics of the application of the system, it will not be effective in any case if the
prankster has already downloaded the voice to his terminal, since his broadcast is no longer
It would depend on that entity.

(e) Regarding the nature of the data, we consider that the voice is a data
particularly sensitive. And it is because we all know that the voice identifies
univocally to a subject among a more or less extensive community. But the older
abundance, the voice can also be considered sensitive data in another sense, and it is
that the RGPD allows to consider the voice as a biometric data, as long as it is
apply, or may be applied, techniques aimed at allowing the univocal identification of
a natural person (art. 9.1 RGPD). It does not appear that the data processing that the
responsible intends to carry out with the application ***APPLICATION.1 is addressed to
apply treatment techniques to the voice that convert it into a biometric data, but
Although that is not the purpose of the data processing carried out by the person in charge, it does not
there is no doubt that the voice can constitute the raw material, the raw data, from the
which a technique could be applied so that said personal data, the voice, turns out to be
a biometric data. As the Supreme Court has had occasion to consider in the aforementioned
previously sentence STS 1921/2017, of May 5, 2017, Rec. 407/2016, the criterion
of "risk" is a criterion to be taken into account when personal data, together with others, and with
violation of the principle of information or access, may lead to the identification of the
interested.

(f) Regarding the last of the weighting criteria mentioned, namely, the guarantees
that could limit an undue impact on the interested party, such as the
data minimization, privacy protection technologies, increased
transparency,
 We believe that it is absolutely necessary to increase the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/61

transparency in the sense of providing the possible overwhelmed, in advance of the
recording of your voice or your telephone, all the circumstances referred to in the article
13 GDPR. And in addition to that, the fact of recording the voice of the overwhelmed in the systems of the
appellant is considered excessive, in the sense of art. 5.1.c) GDPR.

In short, and to finish with this point, it does not result from data processing
carried out by MIRACLIA that concurs, beyond its own commercial interest,
no circumstance that justifies the recording of the voice of the overwhelmed using
as legal basis for the treatment the legitimate interest of article 7.f) of the Directive. The
processing of personal data carried out by MIRACLIA is not necessary for the satisfaction
of a legitimate interest, and in addition the legitimate interest of the appellant does not prevail against the
fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party in the protection of their data
personal.

Consequently, it cannot be considered that the processing of personal data that
carried out by MIRACLIA is protected by the legitimate interest provided for in article 6.1.f) of the
GDPR. Nor does the interested party give their consent for said data processing,
which is unlawful, moreover, since the right to information has been completely dispensed with
of the interested party in the terms provided in the personal data protection regulations.

In accordance with the foregoing, the aforementioned facts entail a violation of the
article 6 of the RGPD, which gives rise to the application of the corrective powers that article
58 of the RGPD grants the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

IX

In its arguments to the motion for a resolution, MIRACLIA points out that the
arguments contained in the above legal grounds are not valid for
“*** APPLICATION.1”, which is in a technical and data processing scenario
different from the one presented in previous actions of the Agency and the ordinary Justice.
For the present case, according to MIRACLIA, "***APPLICATION.1" conforms to the definition of
number-based interpersonal electronic communications services, defined
in article 2, sections 5 and 6, of Directive (EU) 2018/1972, which establishes the
European Electronic Communications Code (consolidated version).

Based on this consideration, MIRACLIA understands that it only intervened by facilitating
the necessary means to provide the service that the user has contracted, the only
data controller of the person receiving the prank call; that
the conversation that takes place for the provision of the service is personal or domestic, in the
insofar as the object of the service is to establish a communication initiated by the
joker, MIRACLIA limiting itself to facilitating the means for transmission; and what does not do
processing of prank call recipient data beyond compliance
of the conservation obligations imposed by Law 25/2007, on data conservation
relating to electronic communications and public communications networks.

For the same reason, MIRACLIA understands that it is not obliged to facilitate the
information referred to in the RGPD, as the provisions of Recital
173 and article 95 of said Regulation, in relation to Directive 2002/58/EC, on the
privacy and electronic communications. According to said article, the RGPD will not impose

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/61

additional obligations to natural or legal persons in terms of treatment in the
framework of the provision of public services of electronic communications in networks
public communications of the Union in areas in which they are subject to obligations
with the same objective established in Directive 2002/58/CE, and, in accordance
with this Directive, electronic communications services cannot be required to
based on public numbering resources that identify the manager of the
call or the owner of the platform or indicate where to obtain information about the
call or about the exercise of rights. Likewise, the right of the user must be respected
of the service not to identify themselves and to personally record the call.

These allegations must be rejected, as there is still no domestic law
no provision that transposes Directive (EU) 2018/1972, whose term of
transposition has not yet passed. This being so, it cannot be said that the activity that
developed through the application "***APPLICATION.1" fits into a category of services
of electronic communications that, at this time, does not exist in our legal system
legal.

On the other hand, article 95 of the RGPD, which
prohibits the imposition of “additional obligations on natural or legal persons in
matter of treatment within the framework of the provision of public services of
electronic communications on public communication networks in the Union in areas in
those that are subject to specific obligations with the same objective established in the
Directive 2002/58/EC”, which is not among the Directives that will be repealed by the
Directive (EU) 2018/1972 with effect from 12/21/2020. This act is not
referred to Directive 2002/58/CE nor does it imply the imposition of specific obligations with the
same objective intended by this Directive

In any case, it should be added that MIRACLIA bases these allegations on the result of
the audit carried out on the application “***APPLICATION.1” by an engineer of
telecommunications in July 2020, well after the period analyzed by the Services of
Inspection of this Agency. Although the responsible entity affirms that the version of the
audited application corresponds to the current version at the time they were formulated
complaints, there is no evidence to prove it. Furthermore, this allegation
whatever was raised in his arguments at the opening of the procedure and supposes an approach
different from the position that MIRACLIA has maintained during the previous phases, in which
showed its willingness to correct some of the deficiencies revealed and
defended the legitimate interest of the entity for the processing of data that it performs.

In addition, it starts from premises and takes for granted facts that cannot be
accepted, mainly those related to the existence of a conversation between a
user of “***APPLICATION.1”, who starts it, and a third party. It is stated that “the person who
initiates the conversation must be the user who contracts the service ***APPLICATION.1” and that
“once the connection is established between the user of ***APPLICATION.1 and the recipient of the
conversation allows the direct exchange of interpersonal information through
electronic communications networks between the two. However, as has been
accredited, the user of the application simply schedules a call, in which no
participates, which is carried out from the MIRACLIA systems with the purpose of reproducing
the recipient a locution (the one corresponding to the joke selected by the user),
so that neither does that call put two people in communication nor does any
“direct interpersonal information exchange”. If there is a call between the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/61

user and the recipient of the prank, that conversation would in no case take place with the
intermediation of “***APPLICATION.1”.

In the same way, it cannot be admitted that the user of "***APPLICATION.1" is the
who decides to record the content of the message that he himself edits. The call
joke remains in any case in the MIRACLIA systems, without being necessary to
this the participation of the user of "***APPLICATION.1", which is limited to using the means
provided by the entity itself to access the audio file generated by the system, without
said user takes any action to edit your content.

With regard to this issue, the approach set out in
the audit report provided by MIRACLIA, according to which the service qualification of
electronic communications that is included in the Conditions of Use of the application
implies an implicit acknowledgment of the nature of the service (in Annex II to the report of
audit, the following is literally affirmed: “In the conditions of use of the
application ***APPLICATION.1 in article 6 it is indicated that “as with any service of
telecommunications, it is illegal to use the services of ***APPLICATION.1 for the purpose
to harass or harm anyone.” There is therefore a contractual declaration that
***APPLICATION.1 is a service subject to telecommunications regulation and, therefore, a
implicit acknowledgment that it is an electronic communications service in
Such case").

It is obvious that the position that MIRACLIA occupies in everything related to the
of the application “***APPLICATION.1” cannot be determined by an agreement between
individuals or a contractual statement, but by the legal determinations that result
applicable.

It can even be said that the aforementioned allegations must be dismissed.
even if we consider the provisions of the European Communications Code
Electronic, which defines interpersonal communications services including in this
concept of the transport of signals and other types of services that allow communication.
It distinguishes “three types of services that may partially overlap, namely:
internet access defined in article 2, point 2, of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 of the
European Parliament and of the Council (1); interpersonal communications services, such as
defined in this Directive, and services consisting wholly or mainly of the
transport of signals” (Recital 15 of Directive (EU) 2018/1972, by which
establishes the European Code of Electronic Communications).

In accordance with its article 2 "Definitions", for the purposes of the aforementioned Directive:

<< shall be understood as:

4) “electronic communications service”: the service generally provided in exchange for a
remuneration through electronic communications networks, which includes, with the exception of
services providing content transmitted via communications networks and services
or exercise editorial control over them, the following types of services:

a) the “internet access service”, understood according to the definition of point 2) of paragraph

second of article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120;

a) the “interpersonal communications service”, and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/61

b) services consisting wholly or principally of the transport of signals, such as
are the transmission services used for the provision of machine-to-machine services
and for broadcasting;

5) “interpersonal communications service”: the service generally provided in exchange for a
remuneration that allows a direct, interpersonal and interactive exchange of information through
of electronic communication networks between a finite number of people, in which the initiator of
communication or participant in it determines the recipient or recipients and does not include services that
allow interpersonal and interactive communication as a mere secondary possibility that goes
intrinsically linked to another service;

6) “number-based interpersonal communications service”: communications service
interpersonal networks that either connect or enable communications with public numbering resources
assigned, that is, of a number or numbers of the national or international numbering plans, or
allows communication with a number or numbers of the national numbering plans or
international;>>.

In relation to these definitions, what is stated in the

Recitals 17 and 18 of the same Directive:

(17) Interpersonal communications services are services that allow the exchange
interpersonal and interactive information and services such as voice calls
between two people, as well as all kinds of emails, services of
messaging or group chats. Interpersonal communications services only cover the
communications between a finite number, that is to say, potentially not unlimited, of natural persons, who
is determined by the sender of the communication. The communications in which they intervene
Legal persons should fall within the scope of the definition when the persons
natural persons act on behalf of those legal persons or intervene at least on one side of the
communication. Interactive communication assumes that the service allows the receiver of the
information respond. Services that do not meet these requirements, such as linear broadcasting,
video on demand, websites, social networks, blogs or the exchange of information between
machines, should not be considered interpersonal communications services. In
In exceptional circumstances, a service should not be considered a communications service
interpersonal if the interpersonal and interactive communication device is a characteristic
minor and purely auxiliary to another service and, for objective technical reasons, cannot be used without
said main service and its integration is not a means to circumvent the applicability of the rules that
regulate interpersonal communications services. As elements for the
exclusion from the definition, the terms "minor" and "purely auxiliary" should be interpreted
restrictive and from an objective end-user perspective. A communications feature
interpersonal relationships can be considered minor when their objective usefulness to an end user is very
limited and when, in reality, it is hardly used by end users. An example of a
characteristic that can be considered falls outside the scope of the definition of
Interpersonal communications services could be, in principle, a communication channel of a
online game, depending on the characteristics of the communication device of the service.

(18) The interpersonal communications services that use numbers of a national plan and
international numbering services connect with publicly assigned numbering resources. Those
number-based interpersonal communications services encompass both services in
which end user numbers are assigned to ensure end-to-end connectivity.
such as services that enable end users to come into contact with
people to whom those numbers have been assigned. The mere use of
a number as an identifier is equivalent to the use of a number to connect with
publicly assigned numbers and therefore should not be considered sufficient by itself to
qualify a service as a number-based interpersonal communications service. The
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/61

number-independent interpersonal communications services should only be
subject to obligations when the public interest requires the application of regulatory obligations
specific to all types of interpersonal communications services, regardless of
that use numbers to provide their service. It is justified to treat differently
number-based interpersonal communications services, as they participate in a
publicly guaranteed interoperable ecosystem and therefore also benefit from it.

Therefore, an interpersonal electronic communications service based on
numbering must allow a direct, interpersonal and interactive exchange of information
between people, without this interpersonal and interactive communication being included in the
service in question as a mere secondary possibility.

Consequently, MIRACLIA is not a provider of networks and communications

electronic communications or provide electronic communications services.

On the other hand, due to the exposed circumstances, this Agency understands that it is not
applicable to this case the doctrine of the Constitutional Court alleged by
MIRACLIA, which admits the recording of a conversation between people by one of the
participants. Nor does this Agency consider that this assumption raises
any controversy that affects the right to freedom of expression of citizens.

Also in his arguments to the motion for a resolution, MIRACLIA points out as
Proven Fact 1 is false, in which it is indicated that said entity is the owner of a
mobile application called "***APPLICATION.1", stating that it is a service to the
accessed via a mobile app. However, in relation to this
question, we refer to the many references that the document "Terms and
Conditions of Use of the Service” contains about the application “***APPLICATION.1” (eg:
“Service definition: ***APPLICATION.1 is an application…”).

And he also considers the reference to the lodging of the jokes on a site to be erroneous.
public, since access to the audio is done through a private URL to which only
The sender of the joke and the recipient of the same have access, if the former so wishes.
Well, this Agency understands that what is indicated in Proven Fact 4 is not contrary
to what is indicated by MIRACLIA when it indicates that there is no "a platform in which
publish the jokes made so that any third party can access them, but the
recordings of the pranks are hosted on a public site, which makes it possible to
access to them through the link to the audio file, which can be broadcast
indiscriminately by the prankster user.”

In relation to what is stated in Proven Fact 5, it is alleged that the link to which
accessed the Inspection Services of the Agency to verify that
“*** APPLICATION.1” operates in other countries of the European Economic Area corresponds to
a pre-production platform that has never worked. However, as stated in
Inspection Diligence, access was made from the offices of the Agency itself to
information that was in production on that day, available to any third party
network user, that is, publicly accessible information. Inspection Services do not
have made no access to MIRACLIA systems under development. In any case, this
entity does not deny the information contained in the aforementioned Proven Fact, on the
operation of the application "***APPLICATION.1" in the countries indicated and the
availability to the public of the terms and conditions of use in the languages outlined.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/61

Regarding the claims that are outlined in the Background,
MIRACLIA repeatedly warns that they should not have been admitted for processing, taking into account
that the respective claimants did not previously address the entity exercising the
rights recognized by the personal data protection regulations.

In this regard, on the one hand, it should be noted that this Agency, using the
powers and prerogatives attributed to it, determined as the object of the proceedings the
global analysis of the application “***APPLICATION.1” from the point of view of the regulations
of personal data protection and in relation to the people who receive the calls
joke, regardless of the specific incidences of the claims
raised, which served to motivate the start of the appropriate investigations in relation to
with the treatment of the personal data of the people who receive the calls of
joke, which coincides with the object of the claims; and, on the other hand, that the exercise of
those rights is not established as a necessary presupposition to be able to formulate
a claim before this Agency. The decision whether or not to make this claim or the
The use of any other means to defend their rights is exclusive to the claimant. In
In any case, it is considered convenient to point out that the decision that is adopted results from the
facts declared proven, without any scope having been attributed to the questions
highlighted by MIRACLIA in relation to the demonstrations carried out by the
complainants about sending the recording by whatsapp, making calls
other than the prank call, the sending of emails or the attention given by
MIRACLIA to requests to exercise rights.

Unlike the present case, the precedent cited by MIRACLIA, in which
deals with the case of a person who received a prank call from a radio station,
refers to a claim of protection of rights for the non-attention of the request for
cancellation of data that had previously been raised before the person in charge, and as such was
processed by this Agency.

Finally, MIRACLIA requests a face-to-face hearing procedure to clarify before
instructors/inspectors of the Agency the exposed points and warns that, in case of
not see their interests served, reserves the right to go to other higher instances
and/or judicial in Spain and in Europe. This hearing is not provided for in the regulations.
applicable procedure, so that it is not obligatory to carry out this procedure nor does it harm the
right of defense of the interested entity, which, obviously, will have the
possibility of challenging the resolution in all the ways provided for in the aforementioned regulations.

X

In the event that there is an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD, between the
corrective powers available to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, such as
control authority, article 58.2 of said Regulation contemplates the following:

“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;”
(...)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

56/61

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period;
(…)
i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in letter d)

above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

eleventh

In the present case, the processing of personal data that
MIRACLIA entity performs without having previously informed the owner of the data and without
legitimacy for it.

The interested party does not even know that their personal data is being processed
by this entity, which uses an application designed to use personal data
provided by a third party and by the interested party. The application is created with a purpose
that requires the processing of personal data. Thanks to the application is subjected to
treatment the telephone line to which the communication is sent, the recording and reproduction of the
conversation held by the interlocutors.

In accordance with the findings obtained, it is considered that the facts
exposed could breach the principle of transparency established in articles 12, 13 and
14 of the RGPD, as well as the principle of legality of the treatment regulated in article 6 of the
RGPD, which, if confirmed, could lead to the commission of two infractions
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, which under the heading "General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines” provides the following:

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a company, a
amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual global turnover for the year
previous financial statement, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for processing, including the conditions for consent under
of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22; (…)”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to this law
organic”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Article 72. Infractions considered very serious.
1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they are considered very
serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

57/61

articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
(…)
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of legality of the
treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their personal data
in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Law
Organic”.

                 In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines in accordance with
to this article for the infractions of this Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6
are in each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each individual case,
as an additional or substitute for the measures referred to in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h)
and j). When deciding the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case,
shall take due account of:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking into account the nature, scope or
purpose of the treatment operation in question as well as the number of interested parties
affected and the level of damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to mitigate the damages and
damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, taking into account the
technical or organizational measures they have applied under Articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;
 f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the infringement and
mitigate the potential adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular if the
The person responsible or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been previously ordered
against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the same matter, the
compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under Article 40 or certification mechanisms
approved under article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through the
infringement."

For its part, article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures” of the LOPDGDD

has:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in section 2 of the aforementioned
Article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they may also
be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the processing of personal data.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

58/61

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the infraction, which does not
can be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to mechanisms of
alternative resolution of conflicts, in those cases in which there are controversies between
those and anyone interested.”

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the
sanctions of a fine to be imposed in this case on the defendant, as responsible for
infringements typified in article 83.5.a) and b) of the RGPD, it is appropriate to graduate the fine that
It would be appropriate to impose for each of the imputed infractions.

It is estimated that they concur as aggravating circumstances, applicable to the two infractions.
of the RGPD for which MIRACLIA is responsible, the following factors that reveal a
Greater unlawfulness and/or culpability in the conduct of the entity:

. The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operations in question: the seriousness of the
infringement is determined by the processing operations carried out
MIRACLIA, which include the collection of personal data to make them available to
third parties, offering them, in addition, functionalities or tools for the dissemination of said
personal data, despite the fact that its treatment is contrary to the RGPD. The duration of the
infringement, considering that it is linked to the proper functioning of the application
“***APPLICATION.1” is determined by the period of exploitation of said application.

. The intentionality or negligence appreciated in the commission of the infraction: this
This circumstance results from the design of the application itself, which has not foreseen in any way
compliance with personal data protection regulations. It's an aggravating
especially significant because the claimed, without any doubt, knew the
defects appreciated by this Agency in the operation of the application from
several precedents, in which he was sanctioned for the infringement of the principle of
consent. MIRACLIA is not unaware that its conduct entails a violation of the RGPD and
decided to go ahead with it.

. The continuous nature of the infringement: the result of the uninterrupted exploitation of the
application “***APPLICATION.1”.

. Linking the activity of the offender with the performance of data processing
personal and benefits obtained as a result of the commission of the infraction: all
the operations that constitute the commercial or mercantile activity carried out by the
claimed involve personal data processing operations, and all of them affected
for the same regulatory breaches. Thus, all the benefits of this business
are the result and consequence of the permanent infringement of data protection regulations
for which the respondent is responsible

. The volume of data and processing that constitutes the object of the file; and number of
interested parties: it is taken into account that the defects appreciated in the data processing
affect everyone who receives a prank call using the app

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

59/61

“***APPLICATION.1”.

. The nature of the damages caused to the interested persons or to third parties:
The damages that may arise from the processing of the data and its dissemination are
unpredictable, without MIRACLIA having taken any precautions in this regard.

. The imputed entity does not have adequate procedures in place for action in the
collection and processing of personal data, so that the infringement is not
consequence of an anomaly in the operation of said procedures but a
defect of the personal data management system designed by the person in charge.

Considering the exposed factors, the initial valuation of the fine included in the

opening agreement amounted to 50,000 euros per house one of the offenses charged.

However, the company has requested in its statement of arguments a reduction of
that fine, since it represents 25% of its turnover, which amounted to 476,000 euros
in 2018, in which there were losses.

The financial information available regarding MIRACLIA corresponds to the
year 2018, last fiscal year presented. There is a turnover figure for that financial year
475,823 euros and a result for the year of -7,364 euros. Also, it is verified that
It is a microenterprise, with 2 employees. According to the information in the
Central Mercantile Registry, the "Subscribed Capital" amounts to 6,000 euros

Considering this circumstance, it is deemed appropriate to propose the imposition of
a fine amounting to 20,000 euros for each of the offenses committed
[infringement of the principle of transparency due to non-compliance with the provisions of the
articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) and classified as very serious to
effects of prescription in article 72.h) of the LOPDGDD; and infringement for non-compliance
of what is established in article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) and qualified as
very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD].

XII

In accordance with the provisions of article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, each authority of
control may “order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period…”.

In this case, considering the circumstances expressed in relation to the
Appreciated defects in the operation of the application "***APPLICATION.1", from the
point of view of data protection regulations, it is appropriate to require MIRACLIA to
that, in the term that is determined, adapts to the personal data protection regulations
the treatment operations it carries out, the information offered to its clients and the
procedure by which they give their consent for the collection and
treatment of your personal data; establishing, in addition, mechanisms that allow
prove that the interested party has effectively accessed the information offered and that
They gave their consent for the collection and processing of personal data. All
this with the scope and in the sense expressed in the Foundations of Law of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

60/61

this resolution.

In those cases in which the interested party was not duly informed about
the circumstances regulated in articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD or the interested party had not
given their consent, MIRACLIA will not be able to carry out the collection and treatment of
Personal information.

On the other hand, it is appropriate for the MIRACLIA entity to cease the illicit use of the
personal data contained in their information systems relating to
Interested parties who have not given their informed consent to do so

These measures will be applicable in all the countries of the Economic Area
Europe in which MIRACLIA operates through the application "***APPLICATION.1" and
with respect to interested parties residing in said countries.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as a serious administrative infraction by “not cooperating with the Authority of
control” before the requests made, being able to be valued such conduct at the time of
the opening of an administrative sanctioning procedure with a pecuniary fine.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, the Director of the Agency

Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: Penalize the entity MIRACLIA TELECOMUNICACIONES, S.L., for a
infringement of articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.b) and qualified
as very serious for prescription purposes in article 72.h) of the LOPDGDD, with a
fine amounting to 20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros).

SECOND: Penalize the entity MIRACLIA TELECOMUNICACIONES, S.L., for a
infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) and qualified as very
serious for prescription purposes in article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, with a fine for
amount of 20,000 euros (twenty thousand euros).

THIRD: Require the entity MIRACLIA TELECOMUNICACIONES, S.L so that, in the
period of three months, adapt to the personal data protection regulations the
treatment operations that it carries out, the information offered to its clients and the
procedure by which they must give their consent for the collection
and treatment of your personal data, with the scope expressed in the Basis of
Law XII. Such adaptation must be implemented equally in all the countries of the Space
European Economic in which MIRACLIA operates through the application
“***APPLICATION.1”.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to MIRACLIA TELECOMUNICACIONES, S.L.

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
This resolution is executive, in accordance with the provisions of art. 98.1.b) of the
Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the established voluntary payment period
in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

61/61

939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17,
by entering, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned person and the number of the procedure that
appears at the top of this document, in the restricted account number ES00 0000
0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in
the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. Otherwise, it will be collected in
executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the voluntary payment
will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if it is between the
16th and last days of each month, both inclusive, the payment term will be until the 5th of
second following business month or immediately following.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this

Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry
of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

