  Wednesday, June 15, 2022 2: Press releases Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel As every year, the data protection summer academy will take place in Kiel in late summer - again as part of the Digital Week Kiel. The topic: “Freedom of information by design – and data protection?!”.
Reduce effort – increase transparency Everyone has the right to request information from public authorities. In this way, more transparency about the actions of the authorities and thus a traceability of decisions should be achieved. During the introduction of the freedom of information laws, many authorities were not used to being watched in this way. The laws are now being transformed into modern transparency laws that oblige public bodies to proactively publish information in transparency portals. The demand for usable data is increasing - for the common good, for the economy, for reporting in the media and also for very individual purposes by private individuals. Authorities are faced with practical problems: small applications can result in a great deal of effort. Information must be gleaned, hearings conducted and trade-offs made. There is often a feeling of uncertainty as to whether too little or too much has been passed on. Problems can also arise if direct or indirect personal data (e.g. building applications) are requested. Transparency laws must not lead to transparent people whose data can suddenly be found on the Internet. The passing on of names, addresses, etc. is usually excluded, but what about indirect information? Overall, geodata and supposedly anonymized profiles can make individuals identifiable again – and then what? Are artificial intelligence and algorithmic systems part of the solution - or do they pose new problems? At the Summer Academy, experts from practice and science will illuminate the topic from different perspectives and examine opportunities and risks. Effective options are to be discussed as to how the legal requirements can be implemented in reality and which steps lead to improved transparency and usability of data - of course in compliance with data protection! As usual, numerous information exchanges will take place in the afternoon, in which various current topics in data protection will be presented. Information on the program and registration is available at the following link: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/sommerakademie/2022/ If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 Email: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de">mail@datenschutzzentrum.de