1/17

 File No.: EXP202203635

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on February 25,
2022 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against DIGI SPAIN TELECOM, S.L. with NIF B84919760 (in
forward, the claimed party or DIGI). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:
following:

The complaining party states that, on September 22, 2021, a third party called
to the claimed entity and impersonating its identity, requested a duplicate of its card
SIM, a duplicate that was provided without requesting the physical contribution of the DNI to
verify your identity and said third party using the information contained in your
mobile (banking App), accessed his bank account by making a non-transfer
authorized, with the consequent economic damage. After what happened, he has presented
claim to the claimed entity, unsuccessful.

He also states that, in order to recover the telephone line, he has had to request
a new SIM card and that, in the physical store you went to, they did not require the
Physical ID at the time of delivery.

And, provide the following relevant documentation:

- Bank certificate in which unauthorized movements are reflected.

- Complaint before the Madrid-Arganzuela National Police, dated September 23,

2021.

- SMS and email from DIGI, dated September 28, 2021, in the
that appears point of sale where the duplicate of the SIM card of the
line ***PHONE.1, dealer name, address and date 22
September 2021 at 5:29 p.m.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party, for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on April 4, 2022 as
It appears in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On May 4, 2022, this Agency received a written response
indicating:

"That from the verifications that have been carried out by DIGI, it has been possible to
determine that the cause that has motivated the present claim is the issuance
of a duplicate SIM card, after having usurped the identity of the
claimant by an individual who previously may have had access to your
personal information and was aware of it.

For this reason, as soon as the claimant reports such facts, DIGI proceeded to the
adoption of the following measures aimed at resolving the situation and minimizing
any possible risk that could originate: a) Immediate rectification of the
element causing the incident: issuing a new duplicate and proceeding to the
deactivation of the former. It should be noted for these purposes that the mobile line
was activated on the allegedly fraudulent SIM from 5:29 p.m. until
8:43 p.m. of the same day, when the mobile service of the line is suspended
irregularly activated. It should also be noted that DIGI proceeded to
restore any damage that may have been caused to the claimant,
consequently proceeding to the refund of the amounts invoiced by the
consumption made while the mobile phone line was allegedly activated
irregular.

As a measure established to reinforce the security of the process, a record was
in the systems of this company that the holder had been the victim of a
identity theft and a duplicate SIM could have been issued without your
consent.

DIGI proceeded internally to investigate the events that occurred for the purposes of
to detect the origin of the incident. measures were imposed with respect to the
Distributor implicated by a possible breach by him of the policies
established by this company for customer identification.

For this reason, on 09/27/2021, DIGI contacted the Distributor to
clarify the events that occurred, as well as to remember and reiterate the importance of
comply with established procedures. d) Additionally, DIGI has estimated the
facts claimed by the claimant, providing for these purposes the information
required in connection with the issuance of the unrecognized duplicate SIM card.

First of all, DIGI is interested in pointing out that irregular contracting in services
of telecommunications through identity theft is a current problem
that affects both customers directly and the operators themselves
telecommunications, who are responsible for the obligations imposed by the regulation
telecommunications sector on data retention such as regulations
applicable on the protection of personal data, in addition to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

collateral consequences that this can generate, such as the possible loss of
customers.

Thus, in the last year DIGI has changed and strengthened its internal processes for the
issuance of SIM card duplicates on several occasions, based on their efficiency and
the risks detected, always with the aim of mitigating the existing contingency with
the request for duplicate SIM cards made under identity theft.

In this sense, DIGI is interested in highlighting that, due to the possible
collateral risks that the issuance of a duplicate SIM card may imply for
its clients, on 02/07/2022, we proceeded to establish and implement a new
procedures and necessary security measures.

Taking into account the above, it can be seen that DIGI had
with sufficient technical and organizational measures to verify the identity of
customers in response to a request for a duplicate SIM, in order to avoid possible incidents
as the one that gave rise to this claim, in such a way that reasonably
could be described as suitable and sufficient, having not been detected
a failure in said measures is not reliable, but rather that the supposed pernicious result has been
produced as a consequence of a loss of confidentiality of the data
of the claimant beforehand and for reasons totally unrelated to DIGI.
Additionally, in relation to the case at hand, DIGI has been able to confirm that
once there was evidence of the issuance of the unauthorized SIM card duplicate
by the claimant, all the necessary actions were put in place to
re-establish the irregularity detected, as well as to stop possible emissions of
unauthorized SIM card duplicates.

In any case, and without prejudice to the foregoing, DIGI regrets the facts
events, and is confident that the application of the new procedure for obtaining
duplicate SIM the result of avoiding the aforementioned impersonations of
fraudulent identity, avoiding the collateral damage that can be
produce and exponentially reducing the potential impact they may have on
the rights and freedoms of the interested parties”.

THIRD: On May 12, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the claimant party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

RESULT OF INVESTIGATION ACTIONS

(…)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

FIFTH: On December 14, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in
Article 83.5 of the GDPR.

SIXTH: On December 27, 2023, DIGI requests the extension of the legal term
conferred to answer said requirement and a copy of the file.

SEVENTH: On January 18, 2023, it is received at this Agency, on time and
form, written by the representative of DIGI in which, in summary, it is argued that
reiterate in the allegations previously presented, first pointing out that
chronological manner in which the events occurred, indicating the security protocol and
the measures adopted for these events, stating that DIGI has not made available
disposition of the alleged criminals personal information of the complainant
different from what they already had before, after having obtained them through
of the email.

Consequently, they point out that it is not possible to associate DIGI with carrying out a
non-legitimized processing of personal data, given that its performance is reduced to
compliance with its processes and obligations.

In other words, during the process of requesting and delivering the duplicate, a
processing of personal data provided to DIGI in order for it to
verify the identity of the interlocutor, first by telephone and later
in person.

In addition, DIGI states that it is proven that identity theft and the
illegitimate access to the data of the complaining party occurs through a
phone call to customer service, prior to having contact
with DIGI, the alleged impersonator had in his possession the personal data of the
claimant, including his bank account (which also allowed him to access
she).

On the other hand, it points out that the AEPD unequivocally imposes on DIGI a
strict liability, in which, regardless of the diligence and measures
deployed, the entity is found guilty. The AEPD seems to confuse the
concept of proactive responsibility with the obligation of result imposed by the
strict liability. In the present case, the existence of a
strict control, before and after the application of the duplicate, the establishment of
prior and subsequent measures, as well as the existence of measures aimed at
Avoid these practices in advance.

For this reason, the claimed party considers that this Startup Agreement is not
adjusted to law, since it imposes on DIGI an obligation of result, based on
only in the harmful result that is produced by the fraudulent activity of a
third, regardless of the diligence used and without considering the deployment of measures
technically adequate and implemented.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

In addition, it indicates that the following extenuating circumstances currently exist
that have not been considered in the appropriate graduation of the sanction:
The absence of previous infringements committed by DIGI (art. 83.2 e) GDPR).
At no time have special categories of data been processed (Art. 83.2 g)
GDPR)
The degree of cooperation of DIGI with the AEPD in order to remedy a
alleged infringement and mitigate its possible adverse effects (art. 83.2 f) GDPR).
The non-existent benefit obtained (Art. 83.2 k).

It requests that a resolution be issued by means of which it indicates the file of the
procedure.

Subsidiarily warning and, ultimately, moderate or modulate the
proposal included in the Initiation Agreement

EIGHTH: On January 19, 2023, the instructor of the procedure agreed
perform the following tests: 1. They are considered reproduced for probative purposes the
claim filed by D. A.A.A. and its documentation, the documents obtained
and generated during the phase of admission to processing of the claim, and the report of
previous investigation actions that are part of the procedure. 2. Likewise,
is reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement to start the
referenced sanctioning procedure, presented by DIGI SPAIN TELECOM,
S.L., and the documentation that accompanies them.
  
NINTH: On February 14, 2023, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
sanction DIGI SPAIN TELECOM, S.L., with NIF B84919760, for an infringement of the
Article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 a) of the GDPR, the sanction that
would correspond would be a fine for an amount of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros).

TENTH: Once the proposed resolution was notified, the defendant requested an extension
term to formulate allegations that was granted, presented a brief of
allegations on March 13, 2023 in which, in summary, it is argued that it is reiterated in
the allegations previously presented, and that in the report issued by the Agency
of Cybersecurity of the European Union ratifies that, to make a duplicate
SIM fraud, the fraudster needs to have access to some of the data
personal data of the victim, client of the operator. That is, that cybercriminals,
have personal data of their victims prior to going before the
Mobile Network Operator.

He points out that this is what happened in this case, the victim lost control
about your personal data in favor of the impersonator prior to the latter
contact DIGI. That is, it is through the "phishing" attack where the victim
lose control over your personal data, and it is this fact that
triggers and enables the commission of fraud.

Likewise, it states that it must be taken into account that DIGI does not participate in the process
identification of a user before his bank, but rather the latter who determines the way
in which you want to carry out this check, so it is not possible to move the
liability to telephone operators.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

Likewise, they indicate that it is for this reason that the defendant considers that the Proposal
is not adjusted to law, since it imposes on DIGI an obligation of result,
consisting of the establishment of infallible measures, when imputing a violation of the
Article 6.1 of the GDPR based solely on the harmful result that occurs
due to the fraudulent intervention of a third party, regardless of the diligence used and without
consider the deployment of technically adequate and implemented measures.

DIGI cannot anticipate or know what the applicable duty of care is.

On the lack of proportionality of the proposed sanction and that prior to the procedures
timely, a resolution is issued by means of which the file of the procedure is indicated
No. EXP202203635.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. - The claimant filed a claim with this Agency on the 25th of
February 2022, in which it is stated that the claimed party provided on the 22nd of
September 2021 to a third party a duplicate of your SIM card without requesting the DNI
to verify the identity of the applicant on site, which caused him serious harm
economical, since transfers were made from your bank account.

SECOND. - DIGI certifies that, on September 22, 2021, a third party
contact customer service, identify yourself as the owner of the line and
requests the issuance of a duplicate SIM card, they proceed to issue a code
application for a duplicate SIM card, that same day the applicant appears
at a DIGI distribution point. There they proceed to issue the SIM card to said
third party that was not the owner of the line.

THIRD. - The line was activated irregularly from 5:29 p.m. until
8:43 p.m. on the same day, September 22, 2021, at which time the
DIGI agent proceeds to suspend the service.

ROOM. - DIGI proceeded to impose measures regarding the distribution point
involved.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Breached Obligation

The claimed party is accused of committing an offense for violation of the
Article 6 of the GDPR, "Legacy of the treatment", which indicates in its section 1 the
cases in which the processing of third-party data is considered lawful:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if at least one of the following is fulfilled
conditions:

a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;

d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply.
application to processing carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their
functions”.

II

Classification and classification of the offense

 The infringement is typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, which considers as such:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 EUR or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The LOPDGD, for the purposes of the prescription of the infringement, qualifies in its article 72.1
very serious infringement, in this case the limitation period is three years, "b)
The processing of personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent entity, it should be noted
the next:

Regarding the fact that DIGI has not made available to the alleged criminals
personal information of the complaining party other than that already held by those with
anteriority. Consequently, there has been no unauthorized treatment of
personal information.

Indeed, the issuance of a duplicate is not enough to carry out operations
bank accounts on behalf of the holders, certainly, to complete the scam, it is
necessary for a third party to "supplant the identity" of the owner of the data before the entity
financial.

What entails a priori, a treatment outside the principle of legality because a
third party is processing data, since it has access to them, without any legal basis, in addition
of the violation of other principles such as confidentiality.

For this reason, this is a process where the diligence provided by the
operators is essential to avoid this type of scam and violation of the GDPR.
Diligence that translates into the establishment of adequate measures to guarantee
that the data processing is in accordance with the GDPR.

Identical considerations deserve the actions of banking entities that
provide payment services, in which area this type of scam starts, since
the third party has access to the affected user's credentials and poses as
this.
 
While these entities are responsible for the processing of the data of their
customers, they are responsible for the same obligations as those indicated up to now for the
operators referring to compliance with the RGPD and the LOPDGDD, and also the
derived from Royal Decree-Law 19/2018, of November 23, on payment services and
other urgent financial measures.

It can be inferred that DIGI has provided a duplicate SIM card to a third party other than the
legitimate owner of the mobile line, after overcoming by a third party the policy of
existing security, which shows a breach of the duty to protect the
customer information.

Denying the concurrence of a negligent act on the part of DIGI would amount to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

recognize that their conduct -by action or omission- has been diligent. Obviously not
We share this perspective of the facts, since the
lack of due diligence. It is very illustrative, the SAN of October 17, 2007
(rec. 63/2006), assuming that these are entities whose activity involves
in continuous treatment of customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court comes
understanding that imprudence exists whenever a legal duty of
care, that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the
assessment of the degree of diligence, professionalism must be especially considered
or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined, when the
The appellant's activity is constant and abundant handling of personal data.
staff must insist on rigor and exquisite care in adjusting to the
legal provisions in this regard.

It is proven in the file that security has not been guaranteed
appropriate in the processing of personal data, taking into account the result that
identity theft has occurred. That is, a third party has managed to access
to the personal data of the owner of the line.

Regarding the fact that criminals have not managed to obtain personal data from
DIGI, so there can be no talk of breach of protection measures,
point out that access to a duplicate SIM card that makes its user identifiable
owner, responds to the definition of personal data in article 4.1) of the GDPR.

Regarding the responsibility of DIGI, it should be noted that, in general, DIGI
processes the data of its clients under the provisions of article 6.1 b) of the GDPR,
as it is considered a necessary treatment for the execution of a contract in which
the interested party is part or for the application at his request of measures
pre-contractual In other cases, it bases the legality of the treatment on the bases
provided for in article 6.1.a), c), e) and f) of the GDPR.

On the other hand, to complete the scam, it is necessary for a third party to "impersonate the
identity” of the owner of the data, to receive the duplicate of the SIM card. Which
entails a priori, a treatment outside the principle of legality since a third party is
processing data, since it has access to them, without any legal basis, in addition to the
violation of other principles such as confidentiality.

Certainly, the principle of responsibility provided for in article 28 of the LRJSP,
provides that: "They may only be penalized for acts constituting an infringement
administrative authority for natural and legal persons, as well as when a Law
recognize capacity to act, affected groups, unions and entities without
legal personality and independent or autonomous estates, which result
responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.”

However, the mode of attribution of liability to legal persons is not
corresponds to the willful or reckless forms of guilt that are imputable
to human behavior. So, in the case of offenses committed by
legal persons, even if the element of guilt must be present, it will be
necessarily applies differently from what is done with respect to persons
physical.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

According to STC 246/1991 "(...) this different construction of the imputability of self-
The infringement of the legal entity arises from the very nature of legal fiction
to which these subjects respond. The volitional element in the strict sense is lacking in them.
to, but not the ability to break the rules to which they are subject.

Infringement capacity and, therefore, direct reproach that derives from the good
protected by the rule being infringed and the need for such protection
is really effective and because of the risk that, consequently, the person must assume
that is subject to compliance with said standard" (in this sense STS of 24
November 2011, Rec 258/2009).

To the foregoing must be added, following the judgment of January 23, 1998,
partially transcribed in the SSTS of October 9, 2009, Rec 5285/2005, and of 23
of October 2010, Rec 1067/2006, that "although the guilt of the conduct must
also be the object of proof, must be considered in order to assume the
corresponding charge, which ordinarily the volitional and cognitive elements
necessary to appreciate it are part of the typical behavior tested, and that its
exclusion requires that the absence of such elements be proven, or in its aspect
regulations, that the diligence that was required by the person claiming their
nonexistence; In short, it is not enough to exculpate a behavior
the invocation of the absence of guilt is typically unlawful".

Accordingly, the plea is dismissed. ultimate responsibility
on the treatment continues to be attributed to the person in charge, who is the one who determines the
existence of the treatment and its purpose. Let us remember that, in general, the
operators process the data of their customers under the provisions of article 6.1
b) of the GDPR, as it is considered a necessary treatment for the execution of a
contract in which the interested party is a party (…). In this sense, DIGI has a
network of sales representatives, points of sale and authorized distributors through a
distribution contract to offer DIGI services. Among these services
offered from their points of sale, is making duplicate SIM cards
corresponding to a mobile telephone line.

Regarding the breach of the principle of proportionality, the GDPR provides
expressly the possibility of graduation, through the provision of fines
subject to modulation, in response to a series of circumstances of each case
individual.

Regarding the imposition of a warning, warning, or the adoption of
corrective measures pursuant to article 58 of the GDPR, a deterrent fine is
one that has a genuine deterrent effect. In this regard, the Judgment of the
CJEU, of June 13, 2013,
  C-511/11,
ECLI:EU:C:2013:386, says:

  Versalis Spa v Commission,

“ 94. Regarding, firstly, the reference to the Showa Denko v Commission judgment,
quoted above, it should be noted that Versalis interprets it incorrectly. Indeed,
the Court of Justice, when stating in section 23 of said judgment that the factor
deterrent is assessed taking into consideration a multitude of elements and not only the
particular situation of the company in question, referred to points 53 to 55 of
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

the conclusions presented in that case by Advocate General Geelhoed, who
had stated, in essence, that the deterrent multiplier factor
may be aimed at not only "general deterrence", defined as an action
to discourage all companies, in general, from committing the infringement of
in question, but also a "specific deterrence", consisting of dissuading the
particular defendant so that he does not break the rules again in the future. For the
Therefore, the Court of Justice only confirmed, in that judgment, that the Commission did not
was required to limit its assessment to factors related solely to the
particular situation of the company in question.”

“102. According to settled case law, the objective of the dissuasive multiplying factor and
consideration, in this context, of the size and overall resources of the
company in question lies in the desired impact on said company, since the
sanction should not be insignificant, especially in relation to the ability
of the company (in this sense, see, in particular, the judgment of 17
June 2010, Lafarge v Commission, C-413/08 P, ECR p. I-5361, section 104, and the writ
of February 7, 2012, Total and Elf Aquitaine v Commission, C-421/11 P, paragraph 82).
We must attend to the unique circumstances of the claim presented, through
from which it can be seen that, from the moment the person
impersonator performs the SIM replacement, the victim's phone is left without
service passing control of the line to the impersonators. Consequently,
their powers of disposal and control over their personal data are affected, which
constitute part of the content of the fundamental right to data protection
as indicated by the Constitutional Court in Judgment 292/2000, of 30
November 2000 (FJ 7). So, when getting a duplicate SIM card,
Under certain circumstances, access to the contacts or the
applications and services that have as a key recovery procedure the
sending an SMS with a code to be able to modify the passwords. Definitely,
may impersonate the identity of those affected, being able to access and control, for
example: email accounts; bank accounts; apps like
WhatsApp; social networks, such as Facebook or Twitter, and a long etc. in short
accounts, once the password has been modified by the impersonators, they lose
control of your accounts, applications and services, which poses a great threat.
In short, it is the data controller who has the obligation to integrate the
necessary guarantees in the treatment, with the purpose of, by virtue of the principle of
proactive responsibility, comply and be able to demonstrate compliance, at the same
while respecting the fundamental right to data protection.

In the present case, it is proven that on September 22, 2021 DIGI
processed the issuance of a duplicate SIM card for line ***TELEPHONE.1,
belonging to the complaining party.

Well then, the result was that the defendant issued the SIM card to an applicant who
he was not the owner of the line.

It should be noted that in the establishment where the duplicate card was issued
SIM should have checked the original of the identification document, thus
that, if this operation had been carried out correctly, the duplicate should have
been denied.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

In the explanation provided by the claimed party, which states in its allegations
dated January 18, 2023: (...), it does not point to what could have been the cause
that led to the issuance of the duplicate, beyond some explanations
generic statements on non-compliance by DIGI MOBIL employees in the
Point of Sale, stating that it proceeded to impose measures regarding the
distribution point involved.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, the
diligence used by the defendant to identify the person who requested
a duplicate SIM card.

In accordance with the evidence available at this procedural moment and
without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the procedure, it is estimated that the
conduct of the claimed party could violate article 6.1 of the GDPR and may be
constituting the offense classified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned Regulation
2016/679.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

"(40) For processing to be lawful, personal data must be processed with the
consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established in accordance
a Law, either in this Regulation or under other Union law
or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation, including the
the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the data controller or the
need to execute a contract to which the interested party is a party or for the purpose of
take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the conclusion of a
contract."

IV.

Fine sanction. Determination of the amount.

The determination of the sanction that should be imposed in the present case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the GDPR, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:
"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative proceedings under this article for violations of this
Regulations indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”
"2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to certification mechanisms.
fications approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
as the financial benefits obtained or the losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

 Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled "Sancio-
and corrective measures”:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(UE) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of said article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of
the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.”

Digi requests that the following extenuating circumstances be appreciated:

(I) "the absence of prior infringements" (art. 83.2 e) GDPR).
(II) "At no time have special categories of data been processed" (art. 83.2 g).
(III) "cooperation with the supervisory authority in responding to the transfer of the
claim and having provided the requested information”, article 83.2 f) of the GDPR.
(IV) "The non-existence of benefits obtained through the infringement", article 83.2 k)
of the GDPR and 76.2 c) of the LOPDGDD.

None of the invoked mitigations are allowed.

Regarding (I) and (II), it should be noted that such circumstances can only operate as
aggravating and in no case as mitigating.

The pronouncement made by the National Court in its SAN of May 5, 2021
(Rec. 1437/2020) on section e) of article 83.2. of the GDPR, the commission of
previous violations:

"Considers, on the other hand, that the non-commission should be considered as mitigating
from a previous violation. Well, article 83.2 of the GDPR establishes that
must be taken into account for the imposition of the administrative fine, among
others, the circumstance "e) any previous infringement committed by the person responsible or
the person in charge of the treatment". This is an aggravating circumstance, the fact
The fact that the budget for its application does not meet implies that it cannot be
taken into consideration, but does not imply or allow, as the plaintiff claims,
its application as a mitigation”;

(III) Article 83.2.f) of the GDPR refers to the "degree of cooperation with the
control in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible effects
adverse effects of the offence;”. The respondent's response to the information request
of the Sub-directorate of Inspection did not meet these purposes, so it is not
framed in that mitigation.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

(IV) On the application of article 76.2.c) of the LOPDGDD, in connection with the
Article 83.2.k), non-existence of benefits obtained, it should be noted that such
circumstance can only operate as an aggravating circumstance and in no case as a mitigating circumstance.

Article 83.2.k) of the GDPR refers to "any other aggravating or mitigating factor
applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained or the
losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through the breach.” and the article
76.2c) of the LOPDGDD says that “2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 may also be taken into account: [..] c) The benefits
obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.” Both provisions
mentioned as a factor that can be taken into account in grading the sanction
the “benefits” obtained, but not the “absence” of these, which is what DIGI claims.

In addition, in accordance with article 83.1 of the GDPR, the imposition of fine sanctions
is governed by the following principles: they must be individualized for each
particular case, be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The admission that it operates
as a mitigation, the absence of benefits is contrary to the spirit of article 83.1
of the GDPR and the principles governing the determination of the amount of the
fine penalty. If, as a result of the commission of a violation of the GDPR, it is classified as
mitigating the fact that there have been no benefits, the dissuasive purpose that
It is fulfilled through the sanction. Accepting DIGI's thesis in a case such as the one
we are dealing with would mean introducing an artificial reduction in the penalty that truly
it should be imposed; the one that results from considering the circumstances of article 83.2
GDPR that must be valued.

The Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National Court has warned that the
fact that in a specific case not all the elements that
constitute a circumstance modifying liability that, by its nature,
has an aggravating nature, cannot lead to the conclusion that said circumstance is applicable
as a mitigation. The pronouncement made by the National Court in its
SAN of May 5, 2021 (Rec. 1437/2020) -even though that resolution is seen
on the circumstance of section e) of article 83.2. of the GDPR, the commission of
previous infractions - can be extrapolated to the question raised, the claim of the
demanded that the "absence" of benefits be accepted as mitigation, thus
that both the GDPR and the LOPDGDD refer only to "the benefits obtained":

"Considers, on the other hand, that the non-commission should be considered as mitigating
from a previous violation. Well, article 83.2 of the GDPR establishes that
must be taken into account for the imposition of the administrative fine, among
others, the circumstance "e) any previous infringement committed by the person responsible or
the person in charge of the treatment". This is an aggravating circumstance, the fact
The fact that the budget for its application does not meet implies that it cannot be
taken into consideration, but does not imply or allow, as the plaintiff claims,
its application as a mitigation”;

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, the amount of the fine to be imposed on
the entity claimed as responsible for an infringement classified in article 83.5.a)
of the GDPR and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD, are considered concurrent in the present case the
following factors:

As aggravating factors:
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

-

The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
treatment of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD).
   The Judgment of the National Court of 10/17/2007 (rec. 63/2006), in which,
with respect to entities whose activity entails the continuous processing of
customer data, indicates that "...the Supreme Court has understood that
recklessness exists whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is
that is, when the offender does not behave with the required diligence. And in the
assessment of the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now
examined, when the appellant's activity is constant and abundant
handling of personal data must insist on rigor and exquisite
Be careful to comply with the legal provisions in this regard.”

As mitigations:

The claimed party proceeded to resolve the incident that is the subject of the claim
effective (art. 83.2 c).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the GDPR, with
regarding the offense committed by violating the provisions of article 6.1 of the
GDPR allows a penalty of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros) to be set.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE DIGI SPAIN TELECOM, S.L., with NIF B84919760, for a
violation of Article 6.1 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine
of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to DIGI SPAIN TELECOM, S.L.

THIRD: Warn the penalized person that they must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment period
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted IBAN number: ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

