 

 

 

 
 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

December 21, 2020

 Evaluation report of the group of states against corruption

on of the Council of Europe available online.

 

LfDI Brink "Public bodies must become more transparent

the. We should pass the State Freedom of Information Act

further develop a transparency law.”

 

Since last week, that of the group of states has been against

Corruption report submitted by the Council of Europe (GRECO).

Status of corruption prevention available online. All in all

Germany has a solid set of rules

Regulations and measures that reduce the influence and

prevent and contain the participation of individual interests

must. But there is still a lot of room for improvement.

 

GRECO believes that there are effective ways to

eruption attempts to stop, for example the introduction

Creation of mandatory codes of conduct for high-ranking employees

decision-makers, more transparency in criminal prosecution

 

- 2 -

authorities, effective protection for whistleblowers, independent

extensive evaluations of freedom of information laws - subject to

special examination of the exceptions, fees and

Publication obligations - as well as the introduction of lobbying

registers and a "legislative footprint" for transparency in the

framework of political decision-making processes and legislation

exercise procedure.

 

With its recommendations for Germany, GRECO is now taking effect

precisely those demands which the freedom of information

commissioned by the states and the federal government for a long time

to.

The State Commissioner for Freedom of Information Stefan Brink

on this: “Lobby registers must provide detailed information

and for more transparency in political decision-making

processes. Public bodies must trans-

become parent. In addition, we should

mationsfreiheitsgesetz to a transparency law

wrap."

 

With such a transparency law could be codified

that citizens not only have a right to information

have about official information, but that public

Publish certain official information of their own

must public.

 

The freedom of information officers have been warning for many years

also more security for whistleblowers, in the past

year they called for the introduction of lobby registers

a "legislative footprint".

 

The 5th GRECO evaluation report can be found here:

https://www.bmjv.de/SharedDocs/Downloads/DE/Fachinformati

 

- 3 -

O-

nen/GRECO_5.Runde_Evaluationsbericht_deutsch.pdf?__blob

=publicationFile&v=4

 

 

The Council of Europe Group of States against Corruption (GRECO)

was founded in 1999 to fight corruption across Europe

battle. Check each other in continuous rounds of evaluation

states to each other as to whether their anti-corruption

measures comply with international requirements.

 

 

