 
 
 
 
 
 
 

711.401.1

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

May 23, 2019

 
 
 

Maja Smoltczyk: Europe is the way - go vote!

 
The coming weekend is all about Europe. The celebrates on Saturday
European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) her first birthday and only one
The next day, the elections to the European Parliament will take place. Against this background remembered
the Berlin Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Maja Smoltczyk, that it
the European Parliament was under enormous effort and against multiple
Efforts of lobby groups the DS-GVO negotiated, decided and the citizens
has given the citizens of Europe the opportunity to exercise their rights in a globalized world
defend. It thus has an impressive commitment to preserving the elementary
laid down the fundamental right to data protection.
 
The developments in the first year of the GDPR show that people are very interested in the
exercise the rights guaranteed therein. Throughout the EU, the complaints are about
Data breaches skyrocketed; in Berlin the number of complaints has increased
more than tripled. But companies are also aware of data protection
gone up. Since then, the number of data breaches reported in Berlin has increased fourteenfold. the
The start-up consultation of the Berlin data protection officer showed that Berliner
companies have discovered data protection as a competitive advantage. Because in many
Regions of the world are now adapting national data protection laws to the standards of
DS-GVO adjusted.
 
The GDPR was a necessary first step to protect our personality and freedom rights
in a time of advancing global digitization. Digitization has arrived
almost all areas of life maintained. Many developments can improve our lives,
at the same time, however, they harbor considerable dangers for our free and democratic society
Company. Quasi-monopoly positions of large data corporations mean that people
but also companies and state institutions are becoming more and more dependent on them
advised and fair competition is impeded. Increasingly often prepare algorithms
Decisions about people or even make them yourself. Although they are extensive
can have an impact on all of our lives, they are mostly completely non-transparent.
The increasing danger of manipulated opinion-forming processes must also be taken very seriously
or political elections. There is a need for further regulation here.
 
Maja Smoltczyk: "The GDPR is an example of how global challenges
time can be successfully met in a democratic way and across national borders
can. In view of these immense challenges that our increasingly digitized
society is imminent, we need a strong Europe and, in particular, a strengthened and
effective European Parliament, which is the path taken for the citizens
and citizens of Europe with courage and energy. Europe is the way - we should all be on it
go on Sunday!”

 
Responsible: Dalia Kues

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 
 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 0
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   