1/2

 Procedure No.: PS/00469/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: MUNICIPAL CONSUMER INSTITUTE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF
MADRID (hereinafter, the claimant) on July 8, 2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against ASISTENCIA TÉCNICA DEL GAS S.L. with NIF
B86844487 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the breach of the web
https://www.certificadogasnatural.com as it lacks a Privacy Policy.

SECOND: On February 12, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

THIRD: The agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure was notified
to the one claimed on February 16, 2021, but he has not issued any allegation in the
deadline given for it.

FOURTH: The agreement to initiate this procedure, in accordance with articles
64.2.f) and 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (LPACAP), becomes a proposal for
resolution by not making the claimed allegations within the indicated period.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It is stated that the website https://www.certificadogasnatural.com
It lacks a Privacy Policy.

SECOND: On February 16, 2021, the agreement to start this
procedure, becoming the same in resolution proposal in accordance
with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (LPACAP), by not carrying out the
claimed allegations within the indicated period.

THIRD: It is verified that the website https://www.certificadogasnatural.com
It lacks a Privacy Policy, but it does not imply a violation of article 13 of the
RGPD because personal data is not collected on said website.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/2

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

  GDPR,

The defendant was charged with the commission of an infraction for violation of article 13
of
the website
https://www.certificadogasnatural.com, which did not comply with the regulations for the protection of
data by not having a privacy policy, which entailed the violation of article 83.5 b)
of the GDPR.

consider him

  of

headline

  to the

 

III

Although it has been found that the website https://www.certificadogasnatural.com does not
has a Privacy Policy or equivalent document, it has been found that the
reported facts do not imply a violation of article 13 of the RGPD because in
This website does not collect personal data.

Therefore, after learning of these facts, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE these proceedings.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the claimant and claimed.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, interested parties may
file, optionally, an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority within a month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and paragraph 5 of the provision
additional fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

