 

 

 
 
     

Athens, 03-05-2018
 

 

 

 

 
PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

Original No.: G/EX/1886-1/03-05-2018
 

 

 

    

 

 
 

A P O F A S H 42/2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department at its headquarters on Wednesday 25.04.2018 at 10:00 p.m. after
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invitation of its President, in order to examine the mentioned case
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the history of the present. The Deputy President, George, was present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Batzalexis, obstructing the President of the Authority, Constantinos Menoudakos, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the alternate members Panagiotis Rontogiannis, Evangelos Papakonstantinou
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Grigorios Tsolias, as rapporteur, in place of the regular members
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Antonios Hymbonis, Konstantinos Lamprinoudakis and Charalambos Anthopoulos,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

respectively, who, although they were legally summoned in writing, did not appear for the reason
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obstruction. Present without the right to vote were Evangelia Vassilopoulou,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legal auditor, as assistant rapporteur and Irini Papageorgopoulou, employee
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the department of administrative affairs, as secretary.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Authority took into account the following:
  
 
 
With the no. first ... request (ADDPH G/EI /1886/08.03.2018) Municipality X, as

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

controller and specifically Department Ψ (hereinafter the Municipality) forwards
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the Authority, A's request for granting it personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character that are kept in the file of the applicant and in this way requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

license no. 7 par. 2 of Law 2472/1997, as also appears from the no. first ....
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion of the Legal Service of the Municipality, regarding the possibility
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provision of personal data that are the result of social research
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the context of a prosecutor's order from the Athens First Instance Prosecutor's Office and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

concern the applicant's mother, B, for judicial use. specifically, A requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a copy of the data kept on file by Municipality X for her mother, and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in particular "social research, medical opinions", as stated in her application,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to present them before the competent courts "for her defense and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

refutation of false allegations against her, the truth of which follows from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the documents requested to be received in duplicate". As can be seen from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

elements of the file, the judicial use consists in rebutting a) the claim
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the protection of personality and for monetary satisfaction to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reparation of the moral damage that B suffered before the Multi-Member
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Court of First Instance of Athens against A and C (regular procedure - reg. no. ... with
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deadline for submission of proposals on ...), b) the action for monetary satisfaction
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to restore the moral damage that B caused before the Single Member
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Court of First Instance of Athens against A, C, D and E (regular procedure - no.
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cat. ... with a deadline for submission of proposals on ...) and c) of the application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

insurance measures to protect the right to its free development
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of personality exercised by B before the Single Member Court of First Instance of Athens
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

against A and C (proceedings for protective measures - reg. no. ... with defined
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

hearing on ..., when the relevant application was heard, as he informed her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Principle A).
 

 

 

The Authority, after examining the elements of the file, after hearing the rapporteur and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the clarifications from the assistant rapporteur, who was present without the right to vote and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

withdrew after the discussion of the case and before the conference and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

decision-making, after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW

 

 

 

 

 

1. Because the provisions of articles 2 par. b', 4 par. 1 and 7 par. 2 item. 3 of n.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997 determine the terms and conditions for legal processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of sensitive personal health-related data. The provisions of the articles
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 par. 3 and 13 par. 3 item. b' of Law 3418/2005 (Code of Medical Ethics)
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provide for the exceptional granting of medical certificates and opinions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to a third party who has a legitimate interest and proves it, as well as the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions for lifting medical confidentiality. Because, further, article 11 par. 3
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Law 2472/1997 stipulates that if the data is communicated to third parties, the subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

is informed of the announcement before them.
  
2. Because, in the case under consideration, A is requesting as a third party (article 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

item i' of Law 2472/1997) the granting of personal data (among others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sensitive health data) concerning B's mother.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. Because it appears from the evidence of the case file that the appellant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the documents, the purpose of personal data processing consists of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rebuttal of the aforementioned lawsuits and the insurance claim
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

measures (petitions under items a' to c) that he has brought against her and others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

defendants/defendants B before the competent courts
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4. Because in order to be examined by the Authority if the invoked purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing of the requested personal data in accordance with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aforementioned provision of article 7 par. 2 item c' of Law 2472/1997 and if
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in addition, the principle of proportionality of personal data is also met
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(article 4 par. 1 item b of Law 2472/1997), so that the Authority can decide whether
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessity and affordability of the use of the specific personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data to refute the above lawsuits, its determination is required
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

file content.
 

 

 

5. Since it is not clear from the data in the case file what the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

above-mentioned conducted social research, if it includes personal
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, nor if medical opinions are kept in the file of the Municipality regarding
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
the B.

 

  

 

 

 
FOR THOSE REASONS

 

 

 

The Authority postpones the adjudication of the case in this case the data controller
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to send without delay a photocopy of the above file that he keeps and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to specify in writing whether it has submitted a Notice of Formation and Operation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

file no. 6 or 7 of Law 2472/1997 or if he is exempted from the relevant obligations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by no. 7A n. 2472/1997 and for what reasons.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3


           

 

The Honorable President
 

 

 

 

 

                      

 
The Secretary

 

 

 

     

 
George Batzalexis

 

          

 
Irini Papageorgopoulou

 

 

 

4

