30.07.2021
Fine for GDPR violation

The National Supervisory Authority completed an investigation of a natural person and found the commission of two contraventions in violation of the provisions of art. 5 para. (1) lit. a) and b) and para. (2), related to art. 6 para. (1), as well as the provisions of art. 14 para. (1)-(4) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
As such, the natural person, as an operator, was penalized:
- with a fine, in the amount of 492.75 lei (the equivalent of 100 EURO) for the violation of art. 5 para. (1) lit. a) and b) and para. (2) of the RGPD and art. 6 para. (1) of the GDPR;
- with a fine, in the amount of 492.75 lei (the equivalent of 100 EURO) for the violation of art. 14 para. (1)-(4) of the GDPR.
The investigation was launched following the receipt of several complaints.
Thus, the operator was complained about the fact that, by distributing some materials within the households of the commune and by posting on his personal Facebook account, he disclosed personal data, on the one hand, of a natural person by broadcasting a photo of the salary slip that belonged to her and, on the other hand, disclosed the personal data of the minor son of another person concerned, contained in a photo of a tab from the Record Register of children enrolled in Kindergarten with a Normal Program in the respective commune .
As a result of the investigation carried out, the National Supervisory Authority found that the operator did not present evidence to show that it legally processed the personal data contained in the salary slip of the person concerned (surname, surname, CNP, place of work, position, salary), thus violating the principles of personal data processing provided for in art. 5 para. (1) lit. a) and b) and para. (2) of the GDPR and the provisions of art. 6 para. (1) of the GDPR.
At the same time, the operator did not present evidence from which it could be concluded that he ensured the information of the persons concerned in relation to the processing of personal data contained in the photographed tab of the Register of records of children enrolled in Kindergarten with a Normal Program (name and surname of the minor son of the person concerned), thus violating the provisions of art. 14 para. (1)-(4) of the GDPR.

Legal and Communication Department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.