 

The state representative for
  
privacy and
 
Freedom of Information
 

free
 
Hanseatic city
 
Bremen
 

 
 
PRESS RELEASE

 

 

Bremen/Bremerhaven,
  
March 23, 2021
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Duty to report?! - Current critical vulnerabilities in MS Exchange
 
 
 
On March 5, 2021, the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) in a
Press release informed that tens of thousands of Microsoft Exchange servers of different
 
Versions in Germany vulnerable to security gaps and with high probability
 
 
already infected with malware. There are four vulnerabilities in the software. Microsoft
was surprisingly outside of the usual update cycle on the night of March 3, 2021
 
 
Security updates provided to close the vulnerabilities.
  
 
The BSI assumes that Microsoft Exchange Server, which will not be available until March 5, 2021
 
updated with the deployed security updates are compromised. Through use
 
 
The vulnerabilities can allow access to e-mail accounts and the installation of malware
come. Since the security gaps can be exploited relatively easily, it came at the latest
 
 
since the vulnerabilities became known, there have been mass, worldwide attacks against Microsoft
Exchange Server destinations worldwide.
 
 
Extensive information and
 
Recommendations for action, in particular for the detection of corresponding attacks
provided:
 
https://www.bsi.bund.de/DE/Themen/company-and-organizations/information-and-
recommendations/recommendations-by-targets/server/microsoft-
Exchange_vulnerability/vulnerability_exchange_server_node.html
 
 
 
Reports to the data protection supervisory authorities
The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen
 
(LfDI) has already received a significant number of corresponding reports of violations of the
 
 
protection of personal data. It assigns all operators of
 
Microsoft Exchange Server infrastructures point out that - if not already done -
immediate measures to close the security gaps and to check
 
 
systems must be compromised. In addition, it points to the obligation of
 
Responsible (operator) according to Article 33 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
to report personal data breaches. This already applies if

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Responsible: The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information • Arndtstraße 1 • 27570 Bremerhaven
  

 

 

 

Tel.: 0421 - 361 - 20 10 or 0471 - 596 - 20 10 •. Email address: office@datenschutz.bremen.de
 

   

   

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

a compromise has occurred - even if no leakage of personal data takes place
 
is or has not yet been determined. The report must be made as soon as possible
 
within 72 hours after becoming aware of it, a corresponding reporting form is available on the
 
 
Data protection website of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information
https://www.datenschutz.bremen.de/detail.php?gsid=bremen236.c.15665.de.
 
 
Violations of Article 33 GDPR can be fined according to Article 83 Paragraph 4 GDPR
be punished.
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Contact/enquiries:
 

dr Imke Sommer, telephone 0421 361-18004, office@datenschutz.bremen.de
 

 

 

