



fax





Fax numbers taken from the homepage





09/14/2021








            Hessian data protection officer no longer publishes his fax numbers.









Fotolia_53951952_S.jpg

© Matthias Buehner fotolia.com

 





One looks in vain for fax numbers on the homepage of the Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (HBDI), the letterhead, the business cards and in the e-mails of the HBDI. What's going on there?
Due to various technical changes, sending faxes is now classified as an insecure means of communication. In principle, the risks of sending faxes today are comparable to those of sending unencrypted e-mails. A major drawback is that the sender usually has no information about the recipient. So far, the question has been where is a receiver located and who has access to it. With the step-by-step change away from analog circuit switching to packet-switched transmission over many stations, new problems arise that cannot be solved with a phone call and the request to stand next to the fax machine.
Roßnagel on this: “The more sensitive the personal data is, the greater the need for protection, which is to be taken as a basis when selecting the measure to be taken. This must be observed when transmitting sensitive data.” By deleting the fax numbers on the authority’s usual communication channels, Roßnagel wants “to draw attention to the technical problems, but without taking any supervisory measures for the time being.”
Roßnagel sees alternative secure means of communication in particular in the sending of e-mail messages with encrypted content, portal solutions in which the communication partners provide and retrieve messages and content in encrypted form, DE-Mail and area-specific digital communication services, such as communication in the medical sector (KIM) or the special electronic authority mailbox (beBPo).
The HBDI has published a note on its homepage that provides further information on the (un)safety of fax communication.
 





Links: For the transmission of personal data by fax








 Contact for press representativesPress spokeswoman: Mrs. Maria Christina RostPress and public relations: Telephone: +49 611 1408 119The Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of InformationP.O. Box 316365021 Wiesbaden

 





PrintSend as email


 

