Safer Internet Day on February 5, 2019

Security and data protection on the Internet concern us all.

Press Release – Page 1/2
Munich, February 5th, 2019

The “Safer Internet Day” will take place again this year. the action
day on February 5, 2019 is themed "Together for a better
Internet".

The current objective “Together for a better Internet” interjects
important spotlight on the fact that security on the Internet of cooperation
work requires many different actors. The responsible service providers
bidders, legislators, supervisory authorities and Internet users, but also
the developers and suppliers of technology and software solutions have to
contribute to making the Internet safer and more privacy-friendly
to make environment.

First of all, software developers and providers are required
dert, the principles of “data protection through technology design” and
“Privacy through privacy-friendly defaults” in the
implement the products they offer.

In addition, Internet users can often already manageable
Effort to achieve a high level of security. Important aspects
are the encrypted transmission and secure storage of
Data.

- Only use secure and trustworthy internet offers

for your personal information, the minimum encryption
(SSL) and certificates from trusted issuers.

- Utilize the use of end-to-end encryption, there

where it is offered.

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from February 5th, 2019 – page 2/2
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 

- Take advantage of the options for securely configuring

smart phone.

 

- Check your browser settings and adjust them individually

individually to your requirements.

Petri: "We all use the internet, both professionally and privately,
which gives us tons of information and services always and
made accessible everywhere. Everyone should get involved every now and then
deal with the associated risks, because it is often possible
achieve a considerable gain in safety with little effort.”

Tips for security on the Internet are available on many websites, for example
play at https://www.bsi-fuer-buerger.de (external link)
https://www.klicksafe.de (external link) or https://www.youngdata.de
(external link) and of course on the websites of the data protection
inspection authorities.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection checks the Bavarian public
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

