1(5)

Rebtel Networks AB
Jakobsbergsgatan 16
111 44 Stockholm

Diary number:
DI-2020-10561
Date:
2021-03-23

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation – Rebtel
Networks AB
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority states that Rebtel Networks AB has processed
personal data in violation of


Article 17 of the Data Protection Regulation1 by not without undue delay first
on 9 November 2020 delete the personal data requested by the complainant
deletion of September 18, 2019.



Article 12.3 of the Data Protection Regulation by providing incorrect information
on 22 September 2019 that the complainant's data had been deleted with
due to the appellant's request of 18 September 2019.

The Privacy Protection Authority gives Rebtel Networks AB a reprimand according to
article 58.2 b of the data protection regulation.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Privacy Protection Agency (IMY) has started supervision regarding Rebtel Networks AB
(the company) due to a complaint. The complaint has been handed over to IMY, i
characteristic of the responsible supervisory authority according to Article 56 of the Data Protection Regulation.
The handover has taken place from the supervisory authority in the country where the complainant has left
lodged its complaint (Spain) in accordance with the cooperation provisions of the Regulation
in case of cross-border processing.

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm

In the complaint, it is claimed that the complainant has unsuccessfully tried to persuade the company
to stop sending unsolicited emails after she deleted her account. She
has requested removal on four occasions and the company has each time confirmed that her
information has been deleted and that she would not receive any more messages, but she has
then each time get a new email asking her to provide feedback
about the service. She has also tried to use the "unsubscribe" link provided in each e-

Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on
repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
1

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10561
Date: 2021-03-23

2(5)

mail, but that hasn't worked either. Against this background, she believes that
the company violated its obligations according to Article 17 of the data protection regulation.
Rebtel Networks AB has essentially stated the following.
The company received a request for erasure from the complainant on September 18, 2019. I
however, it can subsequently be established that it was not handled as a request for deletion
according to the data protection regulation, even if some data was deleted. This is
the reason for further e-mail in the form of a survey reminder for
customer survey has been sent to the complainant. This has taken place during the period up to
and with October 1, 2019, that is, not after the deadline of one month which
applies according to the data protection regulation to accommodate a request for deletion.
Remaining data was deleted on November 9, 2020, except for those that are
necessary to be able to handle the current supervisory matter. The company informed
the complainant about this on November 20, 2020.
Due to this supervisory matter, the company has taken special measures to
reinforce their established processes and procedures for identifying a request according to
data protection regulation. This includes above all that further education of its
customer service agents. The company has further improved its so-called data triggers in its
customer service tools. The company's investigation of the complainant's case showed that it did not
had been flagged as a matter under the Data Protection Regulation when the data application was not
perceived any reference to the data protection regulation in Spanish.
The proceedings have taken place through an exchange of letters. Against the background that it applies
cross-border treatment, IMY has used the mechanisms for cooperation
and uniformity found in Chapter VII of the Data Protection Regulation. Affected
supervisory authorities have been the data protection authorities of Spain, Germany, Norway,
Italy and France.

Justification of decisions
Applicable regulations
According to Article 12.3 of the Data Protection Regulation, the person in charge of personal data must
request without undue delay and in any case no later than one month after
to have received the request provide the registered information about the actions that
taken in accordance with Article 17. This period may be extended by a further two if necessary
months, taking into account the complexity of the request and the number received
requests. The personal data controller must notify the data subject of a
such extension within one month from the receipt of the request and state the reasons
to the delay.
According to Article 17.1 a, the data subject shall have the right to the personal data controller
without undue delay have their personal data deleted and the
the personal data controller shall be obliged to delete without undue delay
personal data if the personal data is no longer necessary for the purposes for
which they are collected or otherwise processed. According to Article 17.3 b, this shall not
apply to the extent that the processing is necessary to fulfill a legal
obligation that requires treatment under Union law.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10561
Date: 2021-03-23

3(5)

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority's assessment
Has there been a breach of the data protection regulation?
The company has stated that the reason why the complainant's request for deletion of the 18
September 2019 was only handled on 9 November 2020 is because the company did not
understood it as a request for deletion.
In IMY's opinion, however, it has clearly emerged from the request that the
data subjects wished to exercise their right to erasure. Because some data was deleted
only on 9 November 2020 has Rebtel Networks AB processed personal data in conflict
with Article 17 of the Data Protection Regulation by not without undue delay first the
9 November 2020 delete the personal data that the complainant requested deletion of on 18
September 2019. The company has, however, been justified in retaining the information needed for
to be able to show that the request has been handled in accordance with the data protection regulation.
The company has stated that no further e-mails have been sent since October 2, 2019
and that this is within the deadline of one month that follows from Article 12.3 and 17
data protection regulation. However, the company is incorrect in its reply to the complainant on 22
September 2019 stated that the data had been deleted and that the complainant would not receive
a few more dispatches. Rebtel Networks AB has thereby contravened Article 12.3
the data protection regulation provided incorrect information about which measures - that the data
had been deleted – which has been taken at the appellant's request.
Despite the fact that the company, on 22 September 2019, notified the complainant that no more e-mails about customer satisfaction would take place, the complainant has received four more
such mailings. The four mailings were made on 22 and 25 September and on 1 and 2
October 2019. IMY notes, however, that this is a relatively short time after
request for erasure was made and considers it to be within the scope of the time that
the company had to take measures if the request had been handled correctly.

Choice of intervention
From article 58.2 i and article 83.2 it appears that IMY has the authority to impose
administrative penalty fees in accordance with Article 83. Depending on
the circumstances of the individual case, administrative penalty fees must be imposed
in addition to or instead of the other measures referred to in Article 58.2, such as
injunctions and prohibitions. Furthermore, Article 83.2 states which factors must
taken into account when deciding whether administrative penalty charges are to be imposed and at
determining the size of the fee. If it is a question of a minor violation, IMY gets
as set out in recital 148 instead of imposing a penalty charge issue one
reprimand according to article 58.2 b. Consideration must be given to aggravating and mitigating circumstances
circumstances of the case, such as the nature, severity and duration of the infringement
as well as previous violations of relevance.
The company has stated that the reason why the complainant's request for deletion did not
was handled correctly mainly due to a mistake in the company's customer service and
customer service tools. Due to the incident, the company has stated that it has taken
special organizational and technical measures to strengthen their established
processes and routines for identifying a request according to the data protection regulation.
In an overall assessment of the circumstances, IMY finds that it is less
violations in the sense referred to in recital 148 and that Rebtel Networks AB therefore

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10561
Date: 2021-03-23

4(5)

shall be given a reprimand according to Article 58.2 b of the Data Protection Regulation for those found
the violations.

This decision has been taken by the head of unit Catharina Fernquist after a presentation by
the lawyer Olle Pettersson.
Catharina Fernquist, 2021-03-23 (This is an electronic signature)

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2020-10561
Date: 2021-03-23

5(5)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Agency. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the day you received it
part of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Privacy Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

