1/12

 File No.: EXP202100276

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 07/03/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant), through which he makes a claim against IMPERIUM C.B. with NIF
E73710246 (hereinafter, the claimed party), for a possible breach of the
provided in the data protection regulations.

The claim states the following, in relation to the matter of protection
of personal data:

"The reason for this is to inform you and report to exercise my rights
before you. About the irregularity that currently has a place called
IMPERIUM PUB LIBERAL, with address…

In this place there are currently three cameras which record all customers
who appear in said premises, there is NO authorized poster or announcer in the
where these three cameras are noticed, nor where customers can exercise their
Rights.

[…]”

Attach the following documents to the claim:

- A photocopy of the claimant's DNI.

-

Three photos showing the existence of three video surveillance cameras in
some facilities.

SECOND: Prior to admitting this claim for processing, the
The Agency transferred it to the person claimed on 07/08/2021, in accordance with
the provisions of article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter,
LOPDGDD). There was a first notification attempt through the Service of
Electronic Notifications, being rejected on 07/19//2021 once
after the established period of ten days. However, on 07/30//2021 the
claimed received notification by mail, as stated in the Notice of
Receipt issued by the Post Office, without any reply having been received.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

THIRD: On 09/27/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
Data agreed to admit the claim filed by the claimant for processing.

FOURTH: On 10/29/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party, for the
alleged infringement of Article 13 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: In compliance with the provision of article 14.2 of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP) the agreement to open the proceeding was notified to the respondent
by electronic means.

The certificate issued by the Electronic Notification Service Support service
and Authorized Electronic address of the National Currency and Stamp Factory (in
forward, FNMT), which is in the file, proves that the AEPD put the notification
available to the recipient on 11/02/2021 and that on 11/13/2021
produced the automatic rejection of the notification.

Article 43.2, second paragraph, of the LPACAP establishes that “When the notification
by electronic means is mandatory, or has been expressly chosen
by the interested party, it will be understood as rejected when ten days have elapsed
natural since the notification is made available without accessing its
contents".

In turn, article 41.5 of the LPACAP specifies that "When the interested party or his
representative rejects the notification of an administrative action, it shall be recorded
in the file, specifying the circumstances of the notification attempt and the
medium, considering the procedure completed and following the procedure”.

SIXTH: After the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the agreement
of the beginning of the procedure, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal.

In the present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

SEVENTH: The agreement to initiate the procedure agreed in the third point of the part
dispositive “INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for the purposes of evidence, the
claims submitted by claimants and the information and documentation

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

obtained by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection in the phase of
information prior to the agreement for admission to processing of the claim”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: A claim is filed against IMPERIUM C.B. for having installed a
video surveillance system in your establishment without signaling through the relevant
informative posters of video-surveillance area.

SECOND: The Spanish Data Protection Agency has notified the respondent
the agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure, but this has not
presented allegations or evidence that contradicts the facts denounced.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, when they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.

II

In accordance with the definition of "personal data" offered by article 4.1 of the RGPD,
the image of a natural person is personal data. Thus, in accordance with the
article 1.2 of the RGPD, the image of a natural person and its protection is subject to
said Regulation.

Article 12.1 of the RGPD states that: “1. The data controller will take the
appropriate measures to provide the interested party with all the information indicated in the
articles 13 and 14”. In this sense, section 7 of the aforementioned precept indicates that: “The
information to be provided to data subjects under Articles 13 and 14
may be processed in combination with standardized icons that allow to provide
in an easily visible, intelligible, and clearly legible manner an adequate vision of
set of planned treatment.

In parallel, article 22 of the LOPDGDD includes the specific rules for the
data processing for video surveillance purposes and states the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the treatment
ment of images through camera systems or video cameras with the purpose
to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that it is im-
dispensable for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture public roads to a greater extent
when necessary to guarantee the security of assets or strategic installations.
services or infrastructures linked to transport, without in any case being able to
put the capturing of images of the interior of a private home.

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its collection, except
when they had to be kept to prove the commission of acts that attend to
have against the integrity of people, goods or facilities. In this case, the images
must be made available to the competent authority within a maximum period of
seventy-two hours since the existence of the recording became known.
tion.

The blocking obligation provided for in art.
article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is
understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device in a sufficient place
ciently visible identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment, the identity
of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in articles 15
to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the device information
I attach a connection code or internet address to this information.

In any case, the person in charge of the treatment must keep available to the
affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered excluded
of its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images that are
regretfully capture the interior of your own home.

This exclusion does not cover processing carried out by a private security entity.
given that she had been hired to guard a home and had access to the
images.

6. The processing of personal data from the images and sounds obtained
nests through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Forces and Corps
Security and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in the centers
penitentiaries and for the control, regulation, surveillance and discipline of traffic, will be governed
by the legislation transposing Directive (EU) 2016/680, when the treatment
for purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of violations
criminal offenses or the execution of criminal sanctions, including protection and prevention
against threats to public safety. Apart from these assumptions, said
treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and additionally by the Regulations
to (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of the Law
5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through camera systems
cameras or video cameras is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this organic law.

In order for the data controller to comply with the obligation imposed by the
article 12 of the RGPD, article 22 of the LOPDGDD requires that, at least, the existence
treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights
rights provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD, is contained in a device whose
design and location must be such that the affected party has a clear view of the information
information available on the processing of your personal data and on where and how
find the detailed information. However, it should be noted that the rest of the questions
tions contemplated in article 13 of the RGPD “must be kept available to
those affected”, that is, in a place that can be easily accessed by the interested party.

In accordance with article 13 of the RGPD, the information that must be provided by the
responsible for the treatment when the personal data is obtained from the interested party
is the next:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the person in charge
treatment at the time these are obtained, will provide you with all the information
information indicated below:

a) The identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their representative.

presenter;

b)

c)

the contact details of the data protection officer, if any;

the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
ca of treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests

legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

and)

the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, in
Their case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a
third country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision
adequacy assessment by the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated
in articles 46 or 47 or article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference
lack of adequate or appropriate safeguards and means of obtaining
a copy of these or the fact that they have been loaned.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not

possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b)

the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to
the personal data related to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the
limitation of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right
to data portability;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or the ar-
Article 9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent
at any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on
in the consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to
provide personal data and is informed of the possible consequences
not to provide such data;

F)

the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, inform
significant information about applied logic, as well as the importance and con-
planned sequences of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the data controller plans further data processing
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of 4
april.

-

Camcorders will not be able to capture images of people
are outside the private space where the security system is installed.
video surveillance, since the processing of images in public places only
can be carried out, unless there is government authorization, by the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

Security Forces and Bodies. They cannot be captured or recorded
spaces owned by third parties without the consent of their owners, or, in their
case, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the
protection of private spaces, where cameras have been installed in
facades or inside, it may be necessary to guarantee the purpose of
security recording a portion of the public highway. That is, the cameras
and video cameras installed for security purposes will not be able to obtain images
of public roads unless it is essential for that purpose, or it is
impossible to avoid due to their location and extraordinarily
The minimum space for said purpose will also be collected. Therefore, the
cameras could exceptionally capture the minimally necessary portion
for its intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles

12 and 13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under their responsibility, including the information to which
refers to article 30.1 of the RGPD.

-

The installed cameras cannot obtain images of private spaces.
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, or
may affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the
zone. It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the
private property of neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their
private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installations and in particular, not being able to affect the
surrounding public spaces, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those
access the guarded space.

In relation to the foregoing, to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to data protection legislation
including the RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” /
“regulations”), to the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other
purposes and the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available
in the “Guides and tools” section).

It is also of interest in the event that low-level data processing is carried out.
risk, the free tool Facilita (in the “Guides and tools” section) that,
through specific questions, it allows to assess the situation of the person in charge
regarding the processing of personal data that it carries out and, where appropriate, generate
various documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with
indicative security measures considered minimal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

IV

8/12

In the present case, the respondent has not presented arguments or evidence that
contradict the facts denounced within the period given for it.

In accordance with the evidence available and which has not been
distorted during the sanctioning procedure, the defendant does not have a cartel
informative of the existence of a video surveillance system in your establishment,
Therefore, it is considered that these facts violate the provisions of article 13 of the
RGPD, indicated in the foundation of law II.

Thus, in accordance with the exposed facts, we find ourselves before a
infringement of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD, by the claimed party. Of
In this way, the conduct of the defendant violates the obligation imposed by article
13 of the RGPD, so such conduct could constitute an infringement
typified in article 83.5 b) of the RGPD, a precept that establishes: “Infringements
of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to 4% of the total global annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a)

(…)

b) The rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;

(…)

For the mere purposes of prescription, article 72.1.h) of the LOPDGDD qualifies as
very serious “The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law”. The limitation period for offenses
very serious cases provided for in Organic Law 3/2018 is three years.

v

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they find the power to direct a warning (art. 58.2 b)), the power
to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD (art. 58.2 i)),
or the power to order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the
treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period (art. 58.2 d)).

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with article 83.1 of the RGPD. In order to determine the fine
to be imposed, the provisions of article 83.2 of the
GDPR, which indicates:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party”.

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the sanction of
fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in article 83.5 b)
of the RGPD, it is appropriate to grade it according to the following aggravating criteria:

- The nature of the offence. The one claimed, due to the lack of an information poster, produces
damages to all affected stakeholders who do not know who the
responsible for the treatment and to whom they must be addressed in order to exercise the
rights recognized in the RGPD.

- The way in which the control authority became aware of the infraction. The shape
in which the AEPD has been aware has been through the presentation of a
claim by the claimant.

- The degree of cooperation with the AEPD in order to remedy the infringement.
After having notified the claim and, subsequently, the opening agreement, to the
claimed in order to be able to answer and, where appropriate, take measures to avoid the
infringement, the AEPD has not received any response.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated, with respect to the infraction committed
by violating the provisions of article 13, allows a fine of 1,500 euros (one thousand
five hundred euros).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE IMPERIUM C.B., with NIF E73710246, for an infraction of the
article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €1,500 (one thousand
five hundred euros).

SECOND: ORDER IMPERIUM C.B., with NIF E73710246, which, by virtue of
article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, within ten days, adopt the following measures:

- Prove that you have proceeded to place the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered therein (you must
identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the
responsible and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said
precepts), locating this device in a sufficiently visible place, both in
open and closed spaces.

- Prove that you keep the information to which it refers available to those affected.

refers to the aforementioned RGPD.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to IMPERIUM C.B.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-26102021

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

