  Thursday, June 9, 2022 2: Press releases Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure Schools should not only impart knowledge: There, the children and young people also learn in everyday life how to resolve conflicts or treat each other with respect. But that's not always easy - especially not when there are problems at home, the atmosphere in the class is bad or bullying occurs. While the teachers often have to concentrate on their subject lessons, dedicated school social workers help in many schools. In the case of social and individual problems, the school social work teams provide support with individual counseling or in discussions with an entire class. They are available as contact persons if the students trust them. And this often involves very sensitive data about the children and young people or about their personal and family environment. Data protection must be a matter of course - but what are the exact requirements of data protection law? How do the school social workers have to behave in order not to make mistakes here? Under what conditions may data be exchanged between the school and school social work staff? And how can such data be adequately protected so that it does not fall into the wrong hands? Marit Hansen, the state representative for data protection in Schleswig-Holstein, knows these problem areas only too well: "We are asked such questions again and again. Many in school social work are unsure whether they are doing everything right - this also applies to the school management and teachers who work with them." For the cross-sectional topic of school social work, the ULD has updated the previous handouts and published a new brochure: "Data protection and social work in schools". A ULD team is presenting the results at the “Annual School Social Work Conference” taking place today in Bad Segeberg and discussing them with the actors from the field. About the brochure: After an introduction with the most important terms from data protection law and the duty of confidentiality, the brochure deals with typical questions of school social work, e.g. B. on participation in school conferences, on how to proceed if a child is suspected to be at risk, on cooperation with the youth welfare office and on the question of when data may be passed on when a child in care changes schools. The rights of those affected are then explained in data protection law under the special conditions of school social work: there can be situations in which communication between the child and the person caring for the child from the school social work team must remain confidential in relation to inquiries from the guardians. The brochure also contains practical tips for designing a protected work environment and data security. The brochure "Data protection and social work in schools" is available for download: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/artikel/781-.html If you have any questions or want to request the printed brochure, please contact: State Commissioner for Data Protection
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel.: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: news, press releases, school, social data protectionArticles with similar topics: E -Recipe procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools