 

Registration number: NAIH-2857-20/2021
 

 

Subject: decision
 

 
 
 

H A T A R O Z A T

 
 

……………………………………….………………………..-to

Before the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: Authority).
……………………. to the applicant (residential address: ……………………………………………….; a
hereinafter: Applicant) against …………………..…………………………
(seat: ………………………………………….; a
hereinafter: Applicant) 2021.
application submitted on February 23 regarding the illegal handling of personal data
in a data protection authority proceeding initiated based on - in which the Authority granted client legal status
the
(headquarter:
…………………….……………………; hereinafter: Importer), and whose
the Authority extended its scope to the customer satisfaction survey carried out by the Applicant and the Importer
to examine general data management practices related to measurement - the following decisions
brings:
 
I. The Requesting Authority's request to establish that the Respondent
unlawfully, in the absence of adequate individual information and a valid legal basis
The applicant's email address and the technical identification data of the vehicle for the Importer,
rejects.
 
II. The Authority ex officio determines that the Importer has provided adequate individual information and
handled the Applicant's email address, home address and telephone number in the absence of a valid legal basis,
as well as the technical identification data of your vehicle, thus the Importer is the Applicant's personal
during the handling of your data related to customer satisfaction measurement, violated
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the management of personal data and
on the free flow of such data and the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC
2016/679/EU Regulation (hereinafter: General Data Protection Regulation) Article 5 (1)
the principle of legal and transparent data management according to point a), Article 12 (1)
and according to Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation - concise, transparent, understandable and easy
providing information in an accessible form, clearly and comprehensibly formulated
obligation, according to Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the principle of accountability, as well as the general data protection regulation regarding the legal basis
Article 6, paragraph 1.
 
III. The Authority ex officio determines that the Importer by measuring customer satisfaction
related data management practice violates the general for the reasons explained in the justification
lawful and transparent data management according to Article 5 (1) point a) of the Data Protection Regulation
principle, according to Article 5 (1) point c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the principle of data saving, Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, and general
Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation.
 
ARC. The Authority ex officio the Importer due to the above data protection violations
 

 

HUF 5,000,000, i.e. five million forints

data protection fine

obliged to pay.

 

2

decree

this decision

with its provisions, a

 
 
A. The General Data Protection Regulation is the Authority's view of unlawful data management practices
Based on Article 58 (2) point d), the Importer is ex officio called upon to
shall harmonize its operations within 30 days from the receipt of this decision
general data protection
in its justification
as explained. This decision is made final by the Importer
must be in writing within 30 days of the divorce - the supporting evidence
along with its submission - certify to the Authority.
 
The IV. fine according to point within 30 days of this decision becoming final a
Authority's centralized revenue collection target settlement HUF account (10032000-
01040425-00000000 Centralized direct debit account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425
0000 0000) must be paid. When transferring the amount, "NAIH-2857/2021 BÍRS." for number
must be referred to.
 
If the Importer does not comply with his obligation to pay the fine within the deadline, he is in default
must pay an allowance. The amount of the late fee is the legal interest, which is due to the delay
is the same as the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the relevant calendar semester.
 
Non-payment of the fine and the late fee, or the obligation according to point V above
in case of non-compliance, the Authority orders the implementation of the decision.
 
There is no place for administrative appeal against the decision, but only from the announcement
within 30 days of the date of the appeal addressed to the Metropolitan Court in a public administrative case
can be attacked. The claim must be submitted electronically to the Authority, which is
forwards it to the court together with the case documents. The request for the holding of the trial is submitted by the
must be indicated in the application. For those who do not receive full personal tax exemption
the fee for the administrative lawsuit is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record the fee. The capital city
Legal representation is mandatory in court proceedings.
 
 

I N D O C O L A S

 

The course of the procedure and the clarification of the facts

 
I.
 
On February 23, 2021, the Applicant submitted an application received with AVDH authentication to the
To Authority, in which he submitted that after having it inspected/serviced by the Applicant
his car, gave the Respondent his email address (……………..…………….). On this
email address on February 12, 2021, you received an unsolicited email with the request that the above
fill out a satisfaction questionnaire and another email February 19, 2021
me, in which they were asked to fill out the questionnaire again due to the lack of answers. Emails are a
They also included the chassis number of the applicant's ……………… type car. The Applicant is
he did not use the unsubscribe link in the emails, but the authority's procedure
initiated because, in his opinion, the emails came from an unknown source
he should not have received it in the first place, and this illegality cannot be remedied afterwards
asked to establish.
 
In his application submitted to the Authority, the Applicant requested that a
The Respondent unlawfully provided the Applicant's email address provided during servicing to
survey maker ………………. for.
 

3

regarding that

regarding that

In its response to the Authority's inquiry received on May 5, 2021, the Respondent, among other things,
stated that although he also conducts surveys from time to time to measure customer satisfaction and
for advertising purposes, however, the specific data management
It was an importer
data controller making decisions related to data management. For this reason, the Importer has this privacy policy
involving him as a client in official proceedings and further clarification of the facts
necessary, for which the Authority issued NAIH-2857-6/2021 on June 2, 2021,
He sent an order dated May 31, 2021 to the Importer.
 
The Respondent also attached its own data management information to its above answer, which
according to his statement, it is also available in print at the reception or at the customer desk. THE
According to the Respondent, the Respondent and that
Importer and manufacturer of cars
(……………………………., registered office: ………………………………………….., hereinafter:
(Manufacturer) companies engaged in joint economic activity are subject to general data protection
on the basis of a decree. Interest assessment dated December 21, 2020 attached by the Applicant
according to the Respondent as a data controller for the purpose of market research and customer satisfaction measurement
transmits data to the Importer and the Manufacturer. This is confirmed by the Applicant's "2020
December" footer, which does not specify the exact scope, point ...
with the fact that the Importer also transfers the data to …………….. as a data processor.
 
The Importer confirmed in its response to the Authority's inquiry received on June 21, 2021,
that, according to his opinion, the examined data management
It is classified as an importer
as a data controller, the Importer determines the purpose and means of data management. The Applicant
partner of the Importőr brand service. In the framework of this legal relationship, the Importer and the Respondent
there is close cooperation between Standardized by the Applicant and brand partners
used worksheet pointing to the data management information available on the website of the Importer
contains a reference. The Importer received from the Application on January 14, 2021 the
The applicant's contact email address and the technical data of the vehicle repair. This data is
Importer handed over to its data processor, ……………………, customer satisfaction
for the purpose of conducting a survey, it was not forwarded to a third party. Declaration of the Importer and that
It is available on Importör's website1, according to the data management information attached to your answer
The legal basis for data management for the purpose of customer satisfaction surveys is the legitimate interest of the Importer to
as the exclusive Hungarian importer of …………….. vehicles, check that
the Hungarian dealer and service partners are of the expected quality
whether they meet the requirements. In this regard, the Importer's interest assessment test is also carried out
to your attached answer. According to the information, the scope of the managed data is the customer's line and
first name, email address, home address, telephone number, chassis number, registration number of your vehicle,
technical data, the name of the dealership or service center used, the customer
time of service and the content of any feedback. According to the statement of the Importer
it is standard practice in the industry to measure customer satisfaction.
 
Since the Importer is responsible for informing the Applicant and ensuring his right to object
his answer was not comprehensive, so in order to further clarify the facts, the Authority again
contacted the Importer and the Applicant.
 
The Importer submitted to the Authority's second inquiry on July 30, 2021 that
stated that the individual information of those concerned will be handed over as an attachment to the worksheet
is done through a printed data management information sheet, this is the expected procedure for brand partners
towards.
 
The Applicant responded to the Authority's second request electronically on July 28, 2021, by post
út, in his submission received on July 30, 2021, stated that the reception and the

1 https://…………………………………………

 

4

informations

it contains

the data management information sheet is made available in print at the customer desk. On top of that, it is
According to the importer's expectations, his general procedure is to be informed verbally about data management
the customer when requesting the data, and the data management is handed over as an attachment to the worksheet
printed version of the information sheet. Verbal information is part of, among other things, email
Entering an address is optional. In the individual case, according to the Respondent's statement about it
the Applicant was verbally informed that providing the email address is not mandatory, but it is
the Applicant did not receive any separate information about its use for measuring customer satisfaction. THE
in this particular case, the Respondent's employee failed to fill in the worksheet,
Signing with the applicant, together with the printed version of the data management information
submission as an attachment to the worksheet. The Applicant attached the blank worksheet
pattern which
A link to the importer's website, but it is not
in relation to customer satisfaction measurement, but specifically the performance of the contract and
data processed in connection with the performance of the service with the legal basis of legal obligation
with regard to provide the reference as more detailed
source on this
in terms of data management. In addition to the survey made by the Importer, the Respondent also
sent a separate satisfaction survey to the Applicant, against which the Applicant did not
protested, filled it out and sent it back.
 
On July 12, 2021, the Authority sent the Applicant a summary of the
about essential facts.
 
Based on the responses of the Respondent and the Importer, the individual case could not be judged a
Without examining the general practice related to data management related to the applicant,
therefore, on August 11, 2021, the Authority ex officio extended the procedure to the Applicant and
general data management related to the customer satisfaction measurement carried out by the Importer
to examine practice.
 
2016 of the Authority on general practice and general administrative regulations.
annual CL. to questions related to closing statements according to § 76 of the Act (hereinafter: Ákr.).
In his reply received on September 2, 2021, the Respondent sent his own separate
questions used in relation to customer satisfaction measurement and provided by the Applicant
answers, the personal data to be forwarded to the Importer, and stated that
maintains its statements dated May 4, 2021 regarding the issue that it is
why some transmitted personal data are necessary for customer satisfaction measurement. E
regarding the consideration of interests, which does not require the individual data types
supported it, however indicated that the correct answer is regarding the data transfer
its provision falls under the jurisdiction of the Importer, the Applicant is bound exclusively with the Importer
acted on the basis of his contract. He also referred to the fact that, according to the contract with the Importer, the
he had to undertake an obligation in return for the rights granted to the Respondent in the contract
to meet the needs of customers at the highest level and to control this
to ensure data transmission. The minimum requirements, the related framework and
corner points are unilaterally determined annually by the Importer. The Importer is the contract
can terminate unilaterally if the customer satisfaction carried out by the method determined by
the measurement result does not meet the values specified by the Importer. For the Manufacturer a
Importer for servicing
The applicant did not
information
according to it
to measure customer satisfaction and to improve customer relations, customer
identification. In his opinion, improving customer relations is also in the interest of customers. The Akr.
Based on § 76, the Respondent maintained his statement that he had not committed a crime
data protection violation, when it forwarded the Applicant's email address based on a legitimate interest
For importer. In his opinion, between the Respondent and the relevant parties and
a proper connection exists and the transmitted data does not affect you unnecessarily
disproportionately the private sector of the affected persons, and the affected person is spread in the commercial sector

transmits personal data. The

forwarded as

to a person

opinion

connected

5

you can count on this due to practice. The Respondent in this case and in general, serious resources
mobilizes to ensure that its employees have adequate awareness and knowledge
manage customers' personal data. Highlights a
within its responsibility that it is
fulfilled its obligation to transmit data based on its contract with the Importer, that is
In accordance with the importer's expectations. It should also be taken into account that the Authority has not yet
established a data protection violation against Request, did everything legal
for compliance, and the current COVID-19 situation for the entire sector is extremely
had a negative impact. The respondent also declares that it is classified as an SME.
 
The Authority for general practice, as well as the Ákr. 76. concerning closing statements
in its response to your questions on September 13, 2021, the Importer sent the
questionnaire for measuring customer satisfaction, the questions of which included the Respondent
the questions of a separate set of questions and additional questions, including about the gender of the data subject and
about his age. The Importer also stated that the chassis number of the vehicle (and present
not in the case of a service, only in the case of the sale of a new vehicle, the license plate number) is necessary
manage customer satisfaction measurement to identify which
regarding the vehicle, the customer's opinion is requested. According to the statement of the Importer
the customer's name, email address, phone number, and home address for filling out the questionnaire
contact and, where applicable, for further contact based on the answers.
Vehicle breakdown data and service name, place and time of servicing
your data is necessary to understand what jobs you were satisfied with and
the customer is not satisfied. Data processed in connection with customer satisfaction measurement
they are not required for any other purpose, they are handled by the Importer only for this purpose. The customers
and the vehicle identification data is handled independently by the Importer for other purposes,
but not as a result of data transfer. If the customer does not contribute their data
to handle them with a name, then they will be forwarded anonymously to the Importer by the person conducting the survey
data processor ………….………. Customer identification is relevant if it is negative
in the case of an opinion, the complaint must be investigated. The Importer only aggregated to the Manufacturer
transmits anonymous statistics, not specific personal data. Declaration of the Importer
according to you, you will receive servicing data from the brand services linked to a natural person
the Importer, because it is the only way to measure customer satisfaction. Attached to the answer
copy of brand service contract IV. Article is confirmed by the Applicant on September 2, 2021
the declaration that the data transfer is unilateral by the Importer
prescribed as an obligation for the Applicant and its conditions unilaterally by the Importer
is entitled to determine and change it, while the Respondent is not entitled to do so. For the answer
attached copy of the brand service contract, according to Article V, point 5, the brand service is obliged to
Set up a customer register in the form specified by the importer and keep it up-to-date,
the data of which he must regularly and
With importer a
………………. traceability of motor vehicles, current and future related to them
traceability of regulatory compliance, organization of potential recall campaigns
and follow-up, organization of public opinion research among final customers, customers
developing and recommending products and services that best meet your expectations
for the purpose of Regardless of this, the Importer and the Respondent are independent economic operators, independent
act as data controllers. The Akr. Pursuant to § 76, the Importer maintained its statement that
that he did not commit a data protection violation, he acted completely legally, and highlights
that you only receive the results of the customer satisfaction measurement from the data processor when
if the customer has consented to the disclosure of his name. Purpose of customer satisfaction measurement
it is primarily an examination of trends, it is not focused on the answers of a given client
examination, only in the case of a negative opinion or complaint. The Importer's data management operations
strives for careful procedure and compliance with the relevant legislation, so far
they have not received any complaints regarding data management, and the Authority has not acted on it yet
In relation to importer's data management. Nevertheless, it is contingent
legal consequence

constantly communicate it

6

the Importer asks to take into account the fact that the current COVID-19 situation is
had an extremely negative impact on the entire sector, as well as the following circumstances:

- the nature, scope and purpose of the data management is not such that the data subjects are seriously affected

would invade your privacy,

- the affected parties do not suffer any damage, in fact, as explained above, they do

data management also serves the interests of the affected parties,

- the possible infringement is negligent,
- the Importer, as a data controller, has not previously committed a data protection violation, such as a
It was not established by an authority, and no general order was issued against the Importer
one of the measures mentioned in Article 58 (2) of the Data Protection Regulation,
and compliance with the measures in question,
The importer cooperated in good faith with the Authority throughout the procedure,

-
- the categories of personal data affected by data management do not fall into special categories
personal data, nor personal data that are deeply affected
would invade his privacy.

 
The Akr. On the basis of § 76, the Authority called the Applicant on September 15, 2021 regarding possible
to submit its closing statements, which call the Applicant made on September 17, 2021
received it, but did not submit a statement within the specified 15-day deadline
or request.
 
The importer did not comment on this, the Authority https://e-
Given that
beszamolo.im.gov.hu recorded on the basis of a public online database that the Importőr 2020-
as's annual net sales (turnover) was ……………………………… HUF, the profit after tax
and it was …………………… Ft.
 
 
II.

Legal provisions applicable in the case

 

According to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the general data protection
regulation must be applied to personal data in part or in whole in an automated manner
processing, as well as the non-automated processing of data that
are part of a registration system or which are a registration system
want to be part of.
 
You are identified as "personal data" on the basis of Article 4, point 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"), including
also the online ID.
 
According to Article 4, point 2 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "data management" is personal
any performed on data or data files in an automated or non-automated manner
operation or a set of operations, such as collection, recording, organization, segmentation, storage,
transformation or change, query, insight, use, transmission of communication,
by means of distribution or other means of making available, coordination or
connection, restriction, deletion or destruction.
 
Pursuant to Article 4, point 7 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "data controller" is the natural or
legal entity, public authority, agency or any other body that is personal
determines the purposes and means of data management independently or together with others.
 
According to Article 4, point 8 of the General Data Protection Regulation, a "data processor" is the natural one
or legal person, public authority, agency or any other body that is
manages personal data on behalf of the data controller.

7

 
According to Article 4, point 10 of the General Data Protection Regulation, "third party" is the natural one
or a legal person, public authority, agency or any other body that is not
is the same as the data subject, the data manager, the data processor or the persons who
under the direct control of the data controller or data processor to manage personal data
have been authorized.
 
According to Article 5 (1) point a) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data
must be handled legally and fairly, as well as in a transparent manner for the data subject
carry out ("legality, due process and transparency").
 
Purposes of data management according to Article 5 (1) point c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
they must be appropriate and relevant and must be necessary
be limited ("data saving").
 
Based on Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller is responsible for (1)
for compliance with paragraph and must also be able to demonstrate this compliance
("accountability").
 
According to Article 6 (1) point f) of the General Data Protection Regulation, it may be legal to
processing of personal data, if the data processing is authorized by the data controller or a third party
necessary to assert its interests, unless priority is given to these interests
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject that are personal
data protection is necessary, especially if the person concerned is a child.
 
The first three sentences of recital (47) of the General Data Protection Regulation
according to the data controller - including the data controller with whom the personal data may be disclosed
- or the legitimate interest of a third party may create a legal basis for data processing, provided that
the interests, fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject do not take priority, taking into account
the reasonable expectations of the data subject based on his relationship with the data controller. That's right
it can be a question of interest, for example, when the person concerned has a relevant and appropriate relationship
and the data controller, for example in cases where the data subject is a customer of the data controller
or is employed by it. THE
to establish its existence
in any case, it must be carefully examined, among other things, that the person concerned a
collection of personal data
at the time of and in connection with it
reasonable that data management may take place for the given purpose.
 
Based on Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data controller is compliant
takes measures in order to allow the data subject to process personal data
all relevant information referred to in Article 13 and Articles 15-22 and according to Article 34
all information in a concise, transparent, understandable and easily accessible form,
provide it in a clear and comprehensible way, especially for children
for any information.
 
Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation lists the minimum requirements
information that the data controller is obliged to provide to the data subjects, if the data subject
relevant personal data are collected from the data subject:

legitimate interest

a) the identity of the data controller and, if any, the representative of the data controller and
your contact details;

b) contact details of the data protection officer, if any;

c) the purpose of the planned processing of personal data and the legal basis of data processing;

8

d) based on point f) of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
in the case of data management, the legitimate interests of the data controller or a third party;

e) where appropriate, recipients of personal data, or categories of recipients, if any;

f) where appropriate, the fact that the data controller is in a third country or international
organization wishes to forward the personal data to, and the Commission
the existence or absence of a compliance decision, or general data protection
regulation in Article 46, Article 47 or Article 49 (1) second
in the case of data transfer referred to in subsection, the appropriate and suitable guarantees
designation, as well as the methods for obtaining a copy of them or those
contact information.

g) on the duration of storage of personal data, or if this is not possible, on this
aspects of determining the duration;

h) on the data subject's right to request from the data controller the personal data relating to him
access to data, their correction, deletion or restriction of processing, and
it can object
against the processing of such personal data, as well as the data subject
about your right to data portability;

i) point a) of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation or Article 9 (2)
in the case of data processing based on point a) of paragraph 1, the consent at any time
the right to withdraw, which does not affect consent before the withdrawal
the legality of data processing carried out on the basis of;

j) on the right to submit a complaint to the supervisory authority;

statutory or contractual
k) about the provision of personal data
whether it is based on an obligation or a prerequisite for the conclusion of a contract, as well as whether the person concerned
are you obliged to provide personal data,
possible
failure to provide data may have consequences;

and what it's like

l) automated referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the fact of decision-making, including profiling, and at least in these cases
understandable information on the applied logic and that such data management
what significance it has and what expected consequences it has for the person concerned.

 
For data management under the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation, the information
CXII of 2011 on the right to self-determination and freedom of information. law (a
hereinafter: Infotv.) according to Section 2 (2) of the general data protection decree there
shall be applied with the additions contained in the specified provisions.
 
Infotv. Validation of the right to the protection of personal data based on § 60, paragraph (1).
in order to do so, the Authority initiates an official data protection procedure at the request of the data subject and
may initiate official data protection proceedings ex officio.
 
Infotv. According to § 61, paragraph (1), point a), it was made in the official data protection procedure
in its decision, the Authority issued Infotv. Data management defined in paragraph (2) of § 2
operations in connection with general data protection
defined in the decree
may apply legal consequences.
 
Infotv. Pursuant to § 71, paragraph (2), the Authority lawfully acquired during its procedures
can use documents, data or other means of proof in other proceedings.
 

9

Infotv. 75/A. Based on § 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation, Article 83 (2)–(6)
exercises its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality,
especially with the fact that you are in the legislation regarding the handling of personal data
The regulations defined in the mandatory legal act of the European Union are being implemented for the first time
in case of violation, to remedy the violation - with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in accordance with - takes action primarily with the warning of the data manager or data processor.
 
It is ordered by the Authority based on Article 58 (2) point d) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the data manager or the data processor to perform its data management operations - where applicable
in a specified manner and within a specified period of time - is brought into line with this regulation
with its provisions.
 
On the basis of Article 58 (2) point i) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority has the 83.
imposes an administrative fine in accordance with Article, depending on the circumstances of the given case
in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph.
 
Based on Article 83 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, all supervisory
authority ensures that due to the violation mentioned in paragraphs (4), (5), (6) of this regulation
the administrative fines imposed on the basis of this article are effective in each case,
be proportionate and dissuasive.
 
According to Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, administrative fines
depending on the circumstances of the given case, Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
must be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in points a)-h) and j) of paragraph
When deciding whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine or a
sufficiently in each case when determining the amount of the administrative fine
the following should be taken into account:

a) the nature, severity and duration of the infringement, taking into account the one in question
the nature, scope or purpose of data processing, as well as the number of data subjects affected by the breach
affected, as well as the extent of the damage they suffered;

b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;

c) damage suffered by data subjects on the part of the data controller or data processor
any measures taken to mitigate;

d) the extent of the responsibility of the data controller or data processor, taking into account the
technical and
organizational measures;

e) relevant violations previously committed by the data controller or data processor;

f) the remedy of the violation with the supervisory authority and the possible negative nature of the violation
extent of cooperation to mitigate its effects;

g) categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the violation, in particular
whether the data controller or the data processor has reported the breach, and if so,
in what detail;

i) if against the relevant data manager or data processor previously - in the same a
subject matter - ordered referred to in Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
one of the measures, compliance with the measures in question;

10

j) whether the data manager or the data processor has observed general data protection
for approved codes of conduct under Article 40 of the Decree or the general
for approved certification mechanisms under Article 42 of the Data Protection Regulation; as well as

k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case,
for example, financial gain as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
or avoided loss.

 
According to Article 83 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the following provisions
violation - in accordance with paragraph (2) - up to EUR 20,000,000
with an administrative fine, and in the case of businesses, the previous financial year is a full year
must be hit with an amount of no more than 4% of its world market turnover, provided that of the two
the higher amount must be imposed:

a) the principles of data management - including the conditions of consent - general data protection
in accordance with Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9 of the Decree;

b) the rights of the data subjects are set out in Articles 12-22 of the General Data Protection Regulation. in accordance with Article;

c) personal data for a recipient in a third country or an international organization
44-49 of the General Data Protection Regulation. in accordance with Article;

d) IX of the general data protection regulation. according to the law of the member state adopted under chapter
liabilities;

e) according to Article 58 (2) of the general data protection regulation of the supervisory authority
instructions, or to temporarily or permanently restrict data processing or that
non-compliance with its request to suspend data flow or the general
provision of access in violation of Article 58 (1) of the Data Protection Regulation
failure to do so.

Decision

 
In the absence of a different provision of the General Data Protection Regulation, the application was initiated
for official data protection procedure, Art. provisions shall be applied in Infotv
with certain deviations.
 
The Akr. According to Section 10 (1), a customer is a natural or legal person, other organization,
whose right or legitimate interest is directly affected by the case, for whom the
official register contains data, or who (which) has been subject to official control.
 
 
III.
 
1. The subject of the procedure and the related person of the data controller
 
The subject of the proceedings initiated in response to the request is whether the Respondent unlawfully treated the Applicant
your personal data.
 
Ex officio extended procedure
By importer, its data processor,
via …………………… for the purpose of the customer satisfaction survey sent to the Applicant
examination of the legality of email-related data management in the individual case, in particular
considering that the Importer has the Applicant's personal data and service data
whether it was lawfully obtained from the Application.
 
From the office
related
general classification of the consideration of interests.

Importer with customer satisfaction measurement
the

proceedings have been initiated
general

of his practice

in connection

moreover it is

subject is

examination,

subject

with this

and

11

in the absence of a request, not the procedure

 
Based on the available information, it did not occur in relation to the investigated data management
transmission of personal data to the Manufacturer, so this procedure does not apply to the Manufacturer's data management
covered, and its extension is otherwise only the competent French data protection authority
would be possible with the involvement of
 
To this
subject is the Applicant's own
data processing for the purpose of customer satisfaction surveys with its own questionnaire, since the Applicant
complaint was not covered, it was filled out and returned by the Applicant, and the separate data management,
which is not carried out by the Importer. In the present procedure, the Applicant is specifically against it
protested that a person other than the Applicant - to the best of his knowledge, ……………….. -
also managed his personal data, in this respect it is not legally relevant that the
The Respondent also carried out its own survey – not contested by the Applicant.
 
According to the Applicant's statement of May 5, 2021, it conducts a joint economic activity
With an importer and a manufacturer (not examined in this procedure). The Importer is dated June 21, 2021
according to his statement, there is close cooperation between the Importer and the Respondent. THE
Neither the Respondent nor the Importer made such a statement to the authorities' repeated calls
or submitted a document that would support joint data management and revealed in the procedure
circumstances do not indicate this either.
 
The data management information of the Requested is the transfer of data for survey purposes (email address, car
identification data, servicing data) designates the Applicant as the data controller.
The declarations of the Importer and the Applicant are also available on the website of the Importer
according to its data management information, the decisions regarding the sending of the complained emails
Data management directly related to the sending of e-mails was brought only by the Importer
the Importer is considered a data controller.
 
The Applicant delivered on September 2, 2021 and the Importer on September 13, 2021
statements received, as well as the Importer and Applicant attached on September 13, 2021
Brand service contract established between - Commonly used by the importer IV. article and V.
on the basis of Article 5, both the measurement of customer satisfaction and the related data
definition, and the obligation to transfer the Requested data is solely the Importer's
it depends on his unilateral decision. Based on this, the Importer can determine and modify it at any time
unilaterally the purpose, means and means of data management related to customer satisfaction measurement
way. The way to do this is the brand service contract, which is Article 28 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
is considered a contract defining data processing according to paragraph (3) of Article The Importer
in addition to exclusively following his instructions - taking into account all the circumstances of the case - a
The respondent is considered a data processor in the above legal relationship.
 
The present procedure is based on the unique circumstances of the case explained in the justification of this decision
with regard to the data management that is its subject, the Importer is the exclusive data controller, the Requested
acts only as a data processor based on the brand service contract. The data processor does not
carries out independent data management, its activity is considered the activity of the data controller, no
acts for an independent purpose and with a legal basis. According to Article 4, Clause 10 of the General Data Protection Regulation
the data controller and those in a contractual relationship with him are not considered third parties
data processors. Accordingly, it is not considered a transfer to a third party
data transmission if the Requested data processing is determined by the Importer
framework, solely for the benefit of the Importer (in the case of a negative opinion, the interest of the Respondent
against) transfers the personal data of the persons concerned to the Importer, this is only the Importer
is considered data movement within its scope of interest.
 
 

12

2. Rejection of the application
 
As explained above, since the request is the data transfer of the Requested,
was aimed at establishing the illegality of its data management, and the Respondent could not follow
the violation falling under the responsibility of the data controller, since the data controller is not the subject of the investigation
in terms of data management, therefore the Authority rejected the request according to the relevant part.
 
However, the Authority has ex officio examined the data management of the Importer as described below
legality, as well as the
general data management related to the subject of this procedure
practice.
 
3. The processing of the Applicant's personal data by the Importer is based on customer satisfaction
regarding measurement
 
3.1. Lack of adequate information
 
According to Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Importer is the data manager
is obliged to take appropriate measures in order to provide the affected party with a
all the information referred to in Article 13 regarding the management of personal data and a
15–22. and each information according to Article 34 is concise, transparent, comprehensible and easy
provide it in an accessible form, clearly and comprehensibly worded.
 
The system of appropriate information in the general data protection regulation serves to
the data subject can be aware of which personal data, which data controller and which
for the purpose of how you will handle it. This is essential to be in a position to
can meaningfully exercise its stakeholder rights. Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
in the case of data processing based on paragraph f) of the General Data Protection Regulation (47)
based on paragraph
an information requirement applies. According to that, it is general
In addition to the special information mentioned in Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation, there are several additional conditions
between that the reasonable expectation of the data subject must extend to the given data management,
must count, and the person concerned must have some direct customer or other relationship
and between the data controller. Considering that in this case the Importer is the data controller, thus
the direct legal relationship between the Importer and the Respondent is to be investigated, not the vehicle
selling dealership or the relationship between the Respondent and the Applicant. Appropriate
in the absence of information, by definition, the data subject is not in a position to affect his rights
practice properly. As explained above, there is no obligation to provide information
it means a mere "de-paperization" obligation in the general data protection regulation. All the
contained in the preamble, as well as the articles of the general data protection regulation
are required when defining the data controller's obligations, not just a specific one
verification of minimal effort on the part of the data controller. The purpose of the information is that it is
puts the data subject in a position to have the data subject's rights in the appropriate decision-making position
regarding its exercise.
 
When examining individual data management, the Authority determines that the specific data subject -
in this case, has the appropriate information been provided regarding the Applicant, i.e. a
What information did the applicant receive about data management. This is done individually, for each case
based on its circumstances, the Authority determines by considering the available evidence.
 
It is also obvious based on the revealed facts that there is no relationship between the Applicant and the Importer
direct legal relationship, customer relationship. The fact that the Applicant is a client of the Respondent,
and the Applicant is a contractual partner of the Importer, which does not make the Applicant one
Importer as a customer, not automatically created by the General Data Protection Regulation (47)
relationship expected based on paragraph Without examining general practice, the present is unique

enhanced

13

case, there would be a meaningful, demonstrable relationship between the Applicant and the Importer if a
The applicant would be aware of this activity of the Importer. The Applicant in his application
specifically the ………………
marked, about the Importer's role with emails
he did not know about it either from the emails or from prior information. Finding this out,
searching for it from an external source is not the data protection obligation of the data subject
regulation, but as explained above, is part of the data controller's obligations
to put the Applicant in such a position that he can reasonably know this. By the Applicant
on an unfilled and unsigned worksheet with a completely different legal basis for a different purpose (no
(satisfaction-measurement) reference written in very small letters for data management is definitely not
complies with the general data protection regulation, is appropriate, clear and transparent
requirement of information, the Applicant could not link it in any way
for customer satisfaction measurement.
 
In the present case, it can be established that the Respondent under the responsibility of the Importer as
due to the occasional omission of one of the employees of the data processor, the Applicant did not receive the
worksheet and, as an attachment, the data management information of the Applicant and the Importer,
furthermore, he was not verbally informed that it would be handled by a person other than the Applicant
manage the Applicant's email address and certain data. He was only informed about that - not even that
provably, verbally - that you are not obliged to provide your email address, but this in itself is not
sufficient information for the informed exercise of data subject rights and to know
what exactly your email address will be used for and which other data it affects. THE
Otherwise, the information that was not given to the Respondent incorrectly identified the Applicant
as data controller of data transmission.
 
The Respondent sent a satisfaction survey separately to the Applicant. The Applicant
This is due to the direct customer relationship between the Respondent and the provision of the email address
was reasonably expected by the Applicant, the Applicant did not object to this. However the
it also follows from this, which affects the present case, that - after a survey to the Respondent
already filled in - in the absence of adequate information, the Applicant could not reasonably count
that the Importer - with whom the Applicant had no previous relationship -
will contact you by email with another survey, in addition to a third person - the
via ……………….., and in an email that did not specifically identify him
neither the Importer nor the Applicant. There was no reference to the actual sender in the emails
to the identity (of the Importer) and the source of the personal data, and finding this out is not the
Duties of the applicant as a data subject. Based on this, the Applicant could legitimately believe that the
…………………. obtained your personal data illegally, and this situation is
It was caused by the improper procedure of the importer as a data controller. Both the content of the request and the
Based on the facts revealed during the clarification of the facts, the Applicant did not and does not
you could expect to provide your email address and other personal data to the Importer
will be forwarded and the Importer will look for it. That allegedly at the Respondent's reception
information regarding this exists, it was also not reasonably foreseeable a
In the absence of specific information on this from the respondent, and it is not viable just for this
to base the information on stakeholders, it does not fulfill the increased expectation expressed above and
responsibility. This is especially true in the case of online data management where the corresponding is compact
providing information would not have caused any realistic additional costs in the email.
 
In addition to the above, Article 5 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation specifically states that
the data controller establishes its burden of proof as to whether the Applicant is suitable
has been informed. The general data protection regulation does not exclude the oral
the possibility of information, however, in the event of a contrary statement by the data subject, the appropriate one
in the absence of proof, the Authority will consider the dubious situation in accordance with Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(2) of Article, as a general rule, at the expense of the data controller, in this case the Importer
appreciates it. Because, based on the Respondent's statements, the individual case is still oral

14

nor did information cover the exact purposes for which it will be used
personal data affected by data transfer, this - taking into account the above
- does not fulfill the clear and unambiguous requirements of the general data protection regulation,
the requirement of information that can be verified afterwards.
 
Based on the above, the Importer violated the general rules regarding the Applicant
lawful and transparent data management according to Article 5 (1) point a) of the Data Protection Regulation
principle, according to Article 12 (1) and Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation - concise,
transparent, understandable and easily accessible
form, clearly and comprehensibly
the obligation to provide formulated information, as well as general data protection
the principle of accountability according to Article 5 (2) of the Decree.
 
3.2. The validity of the legal basis for data management is the personal data of the Applicant
regarding
 
The Respondent indicated its legitimate interest in its information and consideration of interests
data transfer as a separate data management purpose, carried out by the Requested Party
as a legal basis for the activity, that the legitimate interest of the Importer as a third party a
………………. as the exclusive importer of motor vehicles in Hungary, its control,
that the Hungarian dealer and service partners are of the expected quality
whether they meet the requirements. This is also the statement of the Importer on June 21, 2021
confirmed. This is not an illegal interest in itself, but general data protection
from the point of view of the existence of a legal basis according to Article 6 (1) point f) of the Decree, the appropriate,
identifying a non-illegitimate interest is only the first step, in addition to other aspects as well
the data management must comply with the General Data Protection Regulation
there must be a legitimate interest on which data management can be based.
 
It is also important to point out that the collection and transmission of data in itself is usually not
separate data management, only the first operation of a data management process, which is the substantive one
prepares data management, and without meaningful data management it has no goals and results of its own. The
achieving a goal and a result – in this case, a survey in the interests of the Importer –
data management operations serving cannot be examined individually, their legal basis and legality
depends on whether all data processing operations for a purpose are lawful, none of them
commits a data protection violation. Since it is about data management - in a given individual case
due to negligence - the Importer did not inform the Applicant at all, thus the information
the incompleteness of its content did not materially affect the Applicant's information, it is
a question concerning general practice.
 
Regarding the legal basis of legitimate interest, it is important to emphasize that it does not serve to
in the absence of other options, the data controller at any time and for any reason, the other legal grounds
in the absence of applicability, refer to Article 6 (1) point f).
personal data. Although it seems to be the most flexible legal basis, its application
the data controller assumes significant responsibility - not only personal data in the narrow sense
management, but also the fulfillment of other related warranty obligations
also with his commitment. The legal basis of legitimate interest is closely related to the general one
the principle of accountability contained in Article 5 (2) of the Data Protection Regulation, which is
the transparency, accuracy and fairness of personal data management to the data controller
means the obligation to fulfill administrative burdens. Not about "de-papering"
we are therefore talking here, but about a substantive task, which statement is particularly true
in the case of data management, where the data controller and the data subject are not direct clients
in other legal relationships. In the absence of adequate guarantees, the rights of the stakeholders
the risk of injury is such that the result of the consideration of interests can only be that
the third party's legitimate interests are overridden by the data subject's rights due to the risks associated with data management.

15

 
It is very important for data controllers to be aware that they are not the data subject and that they are not
the task and responsibility of the Authority during an official procedure instead of the data controller
identification and justification of the purpose and legitimate interests of data management. What it's like
purpose and for what legitimate interests it wishes to process personal data, the data controller must
concretely, broken down to data and target level, to clearly justify, consider and guarantee this
create. These guarantees must ensure, among other things, that the person concerned
be aware of the data management and be able to object to the data management
before, since after data processing - especially a short-term or one-time one
in the case of data processing - the right to protest is already exhausted, so this right is not actually guaranteed
for. In the case of sending a one-time satisfaction measurement email, it is especially true that
after it has taken place, the protest has no substantive effect. The Importer as
it is considered the data controller's decision to process the data according to the information for the legitimate interest
based instead on the express consent of the data subject - which is, for example, marketing
legal basis for inquiries according to the worksheet - so the related risks are
It is worn by an importer.
 
In the present case, based on the above, it can be established that the general data protection
foreseeability and guarantee defined in recital (47) of the decree
conditions were not met, the Applicant could not object to data processing in advance,
based on all the circumstances of the individual case, it and its consequences - by the Importer
data management and in this context the arrival of an email, from which it was not revealed who exactly
sent - could not reasonably have foreseen. Appropriate information and therefore affected
in the absence of legal capacity, legitimate interest is not a legal basis regardless of the other conditions
may be valid for the Applicant.
 
Based on the above, the Importer, in relation to the Applicant, is in addition to what was indicated earlier
violated Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
4. The Importer's data management practices related to customer satisfaction measurement
 
In this round, the Authority investigated ex officio that the customers by the Importer
does your general practice to measure your satisfaction raise any data protection issues
problem, which the Authority must call upon the data controller in the event of ex officio detection
to remedy it.
 
According to the Authority, the justification III.3.1. and III.3.2. general statements made in point a
content and importance of information, as well as the validity of its legal basis of legitimate interest
about its impact on the data controller and the importance of a proper relationship between the data controller and the data subject
They are also relevant to the importer's general data management practices.
 
content contractual
The
applies provisions regarding the examined data management with the brand partners, so that
The relevant provisions of the brand service contract between the Importer and the Respondent a
The authority assessed it as the general practice of the Importer.
 
It is generally the procedure of the Importer that on its data processor, for example
by email sent via ……………….
to complete the measurement. The person concerned cannot know from the content of the email that the Importer is the one in question
specific person sending e-mails, who and where they obtained the e-mail address, and with this
where you can find more information. In the email "your ………………
your dealer" and "the email was sent by …………… on behalf of ………………”.
they are not only meaningless (there is no such legal entity as ………………[car brand]) and that

based on the facts, it is substantially similar

Importer a

revealed

16

are not suitable for identifying a data controller, but are clearly misleading, as they are not the numerous
one of the (unspecified) dealers, but Importer as data controller
the emails were sent on behalf of. This is confirmed by the fact that several years may have passed at the time of servicing
since the purchase of a vehicle and does not necessarily take place at the dealership where the purchase was made
all servicing. The Importer's obligation as a data controller is not only the appropriate one
ensuring advance information with organizational measures, but the individual stakeholders
transparency, identifiability and minimal
the existence of necessary information so that the person concerned can connect that the preliminary
whether you received the given email from the person indicated in the information. Because nowadays it is very
unsolicited emails, which typically include links to harmful programs, are widespread
can send, therefore it is of utmost importance that the electronic message is not sent at the request of the data subject
in the case of the sender being clearly identifiable and the existence of appropriate information regardless
from prior information.
 
The email does not contain any information about the source of the personal data
what was, and with what legal basis, exactly which personal data of the Applicant is handled. The
displaying the chassis number in the email is also personal data stored in connection with such a person
unnecessary treatment, which does not provide new information to the person concerned, since he knows if
he took his car in for service a few days ago, but it is unrealistic to expect that the chassis number
identify your car by heart. Neither information about data management nor the
there was no reference to information about specific data management in the emails,
and email would not have encountered any difficulties through electronic messages
at the end, ensure that at least the most basic information is provided (actual sender, such as
data controller, legal basis, source, information on the website). Although the emails are from the Importer
sent by its data processor, the Importer as data controller is responsible for its activities as if
you would have acted yourself, since the general data protection regulation makes the data controller general
responsible for compliance.
 
Due to the above, the data subjects cannot exercise their rights as data subjects, nor can they receive information
can ask the Importer, since only the data processor could be identified in the email,
to which the person concerned had no connection. The data processor with data management
information about it could not be found in the email.
 
it is important that it is appropriate
THE
substantiation that the most necessary to achieve the goal affected by the legitimate interest is personal
data is handled by the data controller. At the request of the Authority, the Importer only makes a general statement
has done in relation to measuring customer satisfaction
all types of data handled are absolutely necessary, but this was not supported by anything
under.
 
Regarding the chassis number, the Authority has already explained above that it is unreasonable to expect one
knowledge of it by heart from the person concerned, based on which the received email was automatically narrowed down
for a vehicle. However, in addition to the suitability, the necessity is debatable, since he is an Importer
he did not substantiate with anything why the person concerned would not remember that they were a couple
Within a day, you had your car serviced, and if you have more than one car,
with which Thus, the transfer of this data to the data processor and its inclusion in the email
mostly unnecessary and unsuitable for achieving the goal.
 
The Importer also did not substantiate why an email was necessary
also the data of the address and telephone number concerned. As the Importer also stated
In your answer sent on September 13, 2021, the main goal of customer satisfaction measurement
it is statistical and trend-like, so it does not require the identification of the data subject. Like that
the Importer also stated that identification of the person concerned is only necessary if it is concretely negative

also during consideration of legitimate interests

17

formulates an opinion or complaint and consented to this being forwarded by name
For importer. Thus, in connection with the above statistical purpose, the names, addresses and
obtaining your phone number from the brand partner is not necessary and the specified one is suitable
to achieve a goal.
 
The above can be said about the age and gender of the data subject requested in the questionnaire
also, in respect of these, the Importer did not substantiate that the indicated satisfaction measurement and
how would these data be related to the purpose of complaint handling, and why not without them
the goal identified as a legitimate interest is achieved.
 
Based on the above, the Importer should have examined whether it is
the collection and storage of certain service data linked to a specific person is mandatory
whether both statistical and complaint handling purposes are necessary or otherwise achievable.
For example, if the brand partner only provides aggregated statistical data to the Importer
how many service jobs have been done on which parts, and regardless of whether you are the customer
user of the service, who does not object to it based on adequate information
sends the email addresses of people on a separate list, then the email containing the questionnaire link
it can be sent out in the same way - with appropriate information in the email about who sent it and why
in fact - and the complainants the purchase or service date on the questionnaire,
based on brand partner and email address - they can be clearly marked for the brand partner,
on which more detailed individual information is required. That contact information is sufficient for this
request from the filling-in person through whom you want to communicate, the email at the same time,
residential address and telephone number are obviously not necessary for this. The complaint is filed by name
in case of procedure – contrary to the wording of the request for consent in the questionnaire – not only a
name is managed by the Importer, so it is important to indicate that the provided contact information and
the Importer will also handle vehicle data linked to a given person
in case of consent. The Authority notes that it is specifically for the purpose of handling complaints
otherwise, the use of the legal basis of consent is questionable, since in the event of its withdrawal a
the investigation of the complaint is interrupted, however, this is the new one following the customer satisfaction measurement
data management, which is not the subject of this procedure. In the absence of a specific complaint or disclosure
examination of the unique service conditions related to the given person is the declaration of the Importer
according to it is not part of the purpose, so it does not verify the data of the identifiable data subjects by the Importer
treatment. If the Importer still wishes to process the above personal data, it will
in the context of customer satisfaction measurement, you must be able to thoroughly justify it,
which he was unable to do in the present proceedings. For this reason, it cannot be accepted either
the result of a consideration of interests.
 
Considering that the content of the questions asked by the Respondent on his own questionnaire
were identical to the questions asked by the Importer (with the fact that the Importer also
asked questions), consideration of the fact that
is such parallelism necessary, and is it related to different, overlapping surveys
can its bombardment be avoided by handling less personal data, which also did not arise
as a consideration when considering the interests of the Importer.
 
In this regard, the Authority emphasizes that the legitimate interest and the legal grounds in general have been established
must be examined in connection with the purpose of data management. The fact that the Importer is different for other purposes
handles the same type of personal data of the affected parties with a legal basis, so you are familiar with them, but not yet
automatically makes it legal to use this data for other purposes, at most a
reducing the actual data protection risk
legal consequence
when determining. The same is the case with the argument put forward by the Importer that previously
no stakeholder complaints were received for this, moreover, due to the lack of transparency, many stakeholders were not
was in a position to know against whom he had to exercise rights of interest.
 

maybe the

factor

18

Taking into account the above data protection problems, they clearly predominate
risks related to stakeholder rights, which the Importer did not adequately consider.
As a result, the interests identified by the Importer have priority over the interests identified
interests or fundamental rights and freedoms that protect personal data
are necessary, therefore Article 6 (1) point f) of the General Data Protection Regulation
according to - or another - legal basis does not exist with regard to the examined data management
in the form of
 
Based on the above, the practice of the Importer in relation to customer satisfaction measurement is in violation
legal and transparent according to Article 5 (1) point a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
principle of data management, according to Article 5 (1) point c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the principle of data saving, Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, and general
Article 13 of the Data Protection Regulation.
 
 
ARC. Legal consequences
 
Since the investigated data processing for the purpose of measuring customer satisfaction already applies to the Applicant
has ceased, in this respect no obligation to delete the available information is necessary
Based on.
 
Since it does not affect the data subject's rights according to the General Data Protection Regulation, it is therefore the data subject
its customer capacity does not extend to the issue of imposing a data protection fine. The Authority
examined ex officio whether the imposition of a data protection fine against the Importer was justified.
 
On the question of whether the imposition of a data protection fine is justified, the Authority
made a decision based on statutory discretion, taking into account Infotv. Section 61 (1)
to paragraph a), Infotv. 75/A. 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
(2) and Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
 
The illegality of the individual data management carried out by the Authority in relation to the Applicant
he does not see any other measures necessary in the case of the individual applicant.
 
In the ex officio procedure due to the illegality of the general practice examined ex officio, the Authority
considered the following in relation to the data protection fine.
 
The Authority did not take it into account as a mitigating circumstance regarding the necessity of the fine
the economic situation referred to by the Importer, as it is – indirectly, on the annual income
through - only affects the amount of the fine if it is necessary, not whether
whether it is necessary to impose a fine is determined by the violation and its circumstances
in accordance with Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation. In this regard, the
When determining the amount of the fine, the Authority took into account that the Importer's 2020
its taxable profit was HUF …………………….. which is more than ……………………. the 2019
after-tax profit for the year, while the net sales revenue in 2020 decreased by ….. %
compared to the 2019 level.
 
The Authority also did not consider as a mitigating circumstance the fact that the Importer a
He cooperated with the authorities during the procedure, as this is Article 31 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
the obligation of all data controllers and data processors based on Article
can be taken into account as an aggravating circumstance.
 
The Authority also did not take the Importer into account as a mitigating circumstance
reference to the fact that the data subjects will not suffer any damage, in fact, the data management

19

don't even protest

they know in large numbers. The

it also serves the interests of those concerned, as personal data is subject to general data protection
unnecessary data that conflict with the regulation, that do not take into account the will of the data subjects
user data management violates the right to the protection of personal data and in general
represents an unnecessary data security risk, and the satisfaction measurement is only based on –
presumably in a small number of cases, it serves the interest of the person concerned, if he has a complaint, and he does
the person concerned can present it without question, if the Importer is suitable for this
provides a forum, it is not necessary to contact the Importer separately.
 
The Authority considered the Importer's market weight as an aggravating circumstance, the potential
number of people affected (which is the new ……..…….. car sales statistics of the KSH in Hungary2
based on at least tens of thousands), and that his general practice is imported by him
exclusively dominant in Hungary in terms of brand.
 
The Authority considered the fact that it was not available as an aggravating circumstance
effective information and legal remedy for those concerned. This round cannot be taken into account
The number of complaints received by the authorities is small, since the essential element of the violation is that the affected parties
they did not receive adequate information about the given data management and do not necessarily expect it,
thus in merit
Importer's data management
on the basis of its extent and market position, the Importer could be expected not only to
the exercisability of data subject rights should depend on the individual and unsupervised decision of its administrators.
 
The Authority considered as an aggravating circumstance the fact that the violation lasted for several years
the result of existing, continuous practice, and its planning - or the general
redesign in accordance with the data protection regulation - it was thoughtless at the level of principle.
 
The Authority took into account as a mitigating circumstance the fact that the scope of personal data handled
did not contain personal data belonging to a special category or sensitive for other reasons,
and a significant part of the personal data is related to the vehicle owned by the data subject
shift data, and some of the data is handled by the Importer for other purposes anyway, so it is
the damage to those affected was not significant, despite the size of the circle of stakeholders.
 
The Authority took into account as a mitigating circumstance the fact that in the individual complaint case a
The applicant, as a data processor, was about an error occurring in an individual case by one of his employees
word, and evaluated the Respondent's statement that he had taken steps to deal with similar cases
in order to avoid it in the future, as well as the requirement of the Importer to make it mandatory
handing over information on data management to those concerned.
 
The Authority took into account as a mitigating circumstance that the violation was negligent,
was not aimed at harming the persons concerned or obtaining illegal profit, and the indicated
interest can be regarded as a legitimate interest if the conditions of data management are met
are adapted to the provisions of the general data protection regulation explained in the justification.
 
The Authority took into account as a mitigating circumstance the fact that the Importer had not previously
committed a data protection violation, the Authority did not establish such a violation against him.
 
As a result of the Authority's consideration, in relation to the examined general practice, it is
based on all the circumstances of the case, it is necessary to impose a fine for both the special and
for the sake of general prevention in order to secure personal data in the future
enforcement of the right to protection.
 
 

2 https://www.ksh.hu/docs/hun/xstadat/xstadat_evkozi/e_ode001b.html

 

20

 
 
Based on the above, the Authority, according to the relevant part, the maximum amount that can be imposed is approx.
it held the imposition of a data protection fine corresponding to three ten thousandths (0.026%).
it is proportionate and deterrent based on all the circumstances of the case
Importer
regarding.
 
 
A. Other questions
 
The competence of the Authority is set by Infotv. Paragraphs (2) and (2a) of § 38 define its jurisdiction
It covers the entire territory of Hungary.
 
The Akr. Paragraphs (1) and (2) of Section 112 and Paragraph (1) of Section 116 and Paragraph (1) of Section 114
based on the decision, there is room for a legal remedy through an administrative lawsuit.
 
 

* * *

 

The rules of the administrative trial are set out in Act I of 2017 on the Administrative Procedure
hereinafter: Kp.) is defined. The Kp. Based on § 12, paragraph (1), by decision of the Authority
the administrative lawsuit against falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is referred to in the Kp. Section 13, paragraph (3).
Based on point a) subpoint aa), the Metropolitan Court is exclusively competent.
 
The Kp. On the basis of § 27, paragraph (1) point b) of the public administration under the jurisdiction of the court
legal representation is mandatory in a lawsuit. The Kp. According to § 39, paragraph (6) - unless otherwise provided by law
provides - the submission of the claim for the administrative act to take effect
does not have a deferral effect. The Kp. Paragraph (1) of § 29 and, in this regard, on civil procedure
solo CXXX of 2016 Act (hereinafter: Pp.) is applicable according to § 604, that is
of 2015 on the general rules of electronic administration and trust services
CCXXII. according to Article 9 (1) point b) of the law, the legal representative of the customer is electronic
obliged to maintain contact.
 
The time and place of submitting the statement of claim is set by Kp. It is defined by § 39, paragraph (1). THE
information on the possibility of a request to hold a hearing in Kp. Paragraphs (1)-(2) of § 77
is based on.
 
The amount of the fee for the administrative lawsuit is determined by Act XCIII of 1990 on fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45/A. Section (1) defines. From the advance payment of the fee
the Itv. Paragraph (1) of § 59 and point h) of § 62 (1) exempt the person initiating the procedure
half.
 
If the Obligor does not adequately certify the fulfillment of the prescribed obligations, the Authority
considers that the obligations have not been fulfilled within the deadline. The Akr. According to § 132, if
the Obligor did not comply with the obligation contained in the Authority's final decision, that is
can be executed. The Authority's decision in Art. according to § 82, paragraph (1) with the communication
becomes permanent. The Akr. Pursuant to § 133, enforcement - if you are a law
government decree does not provide otherwise - it is ordered by the decision-making authority. The Akr. 134.
pursuant to § the execution - if it is a law, government decree or municipal authority
the local government decree does not provide otherwise - the state tax authority
undertakes. Infotv. Based on § 61, paragraph (7), contained in the Authority's decision,
to carry out a specific act, for specific behavior,
you are patient

21

regarding the obligation to stop, the Authority will implement the decision
undertakes.
 
Budapest, October 27, 2021
 
 
 
 
 

 

Dr. Attila Péterfalvi

president

c. professor

