1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00298/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A., B.B.B., C.C.C. (hereinafter, the claimants) dated April 22,
2019 they filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against GRUPO VALSOR Y LOSAN, S.L. with NIF B99163743 (in
later, the claimed one).

The reasons on which they base the claim are that in a purchase relationship of a
property, the claimed entity -real estate manager- provided in the contact emails of
various interested buyers, third party data.

Specifically, when initiating the procedures for the purchase of a home, A.A.A. received the
contract for the purchase of the property with the personal data of the married couple
BBB and C.C.C.

These facts were communicated by A.A.A. to B.B.B. and C.C.C. Presenting these to your
time your claim.

SECOND: In accordance with the mechanism prior to the admission for processing of the
claims that are formulated before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, foreseen
in article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights, which consists of transferring the
same to the Data Protection Delegates designated by those responsible or
in charge of the treatment, or to these when they have not been designated, and with the purpose
indicated in the aforementioned article, on May 30, 2019, notification of transfer of this
claim to the claimed entity, so that it proceeds to its analysis and is given a term of
response of a month, not having received a response to it.

The respondent did not answer the request for information within a month from
receipt of said notice.

THIRD: On November 29, 2019, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate sanctioning procedure to the claimed, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Notification of the aforementioned agreement to initiate this procedure
sanctioning party is given a hearing period of TEN WORKING DAYS to formulate
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate, in accordance with the
stipulated in articles 73 and 76 of Law 39/2015 on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations.

 TO: Not having made allegations or presented evidence within the given period,

WHO
 
This resolution is issued taking into account the following:

FACTS

FIRST: The claimed entity -real estate manager- provided in the contact emails
of various interested buyers, the data of third parties, when initiating the procedures for the
home purchase, referred A.A.A. the purchase contract of the property with the data
personals of the marriage composed by B.B.B. and C.C.C.

SECOND: Transfer of this claim is notified to the claimed entity, to
proceed to its analysis, however, the respondent has not responded to said request for
information.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the GDPR and
in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the

treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for

those that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data that is
inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data; the
personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are processed
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice
of the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by the
this Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject ("limitation
of the term of conservation»);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions

in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

The facts denounced, that is, disseminating information by email
of the claimants supposes the violation of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs
the principles of integrity and confidentiality of personal data, as well as the
proactive responsibility of the controller to demonstrate compliance.

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe the
three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

SAW

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

the following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional, but significant, negligent action.

goes (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, surnames,

domicile), according to article 83.2 g)

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE GRUPO VALSOR Y LOSAN, S.L., with NIF B99163743, for
an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a
fine of €2,500.00 (TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to GRUPO VALSOR Y LOSAN, S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

