THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner
for data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

November 12, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 Olympic exhibits and certificates, discussions

with former sports stars:
 
Exhibition “Sports heroes – remembered or forgotten?
Dealing with the successes of former
GDR Olympic champion today"
from 26.11. until 10.12.2021
 
Competitive athletes want to pursue their passion

and have to reveal a lot about themselves for this, although it is for the

sporting success

Not

necessary

appears: you

sign contracts with sports associations and sponsors,

some of which are very deeply involved in private life and athletes' lives

intervention.

she

give

data protection law

declarations of consent and in some cases waive them

very basic things – for example, the free choice of

doctor to treat her. And they submit to it

Anti-Doping Control System.

 

Sports heroes have shaped and continue to shape our time. They are

Role models. Inspire your stories of success. For the

Success they made many compromises and concessions

to have to do.



 

The State Representative

for data protection and

freedom of information dr Stefan Brink dedicates an exhibition

Sports heroes who achieved great victories then and now

fill history books.

 

The exhibition and the accompanying events

appreciate the achievements

from

partly

forgotten

Sports heroes and question the way in which

she is reminded. At the same time, the LfDI sets itself as

Supervisory authority responsible for the interests of freedom and

civil rights

makes strong, with

the

inner german

sports history,

personal rights

from

Competitive athletes and current developments

in the

sports area apart. How much freedom does an athlete need

and reveal an athlete to the passion

follow? This is one of the key questions facing the

State representative follows.

 

With public tours through the exhibition and

unique roundtables with former sports stars who

partially withdrawn completely from the public

have and once again the stage for this exhibition

enter, the state commissioner is also a deep

Insight into the world of sports and the lives of athletes.

The exhibition is rounded off with guided tours

Freiburg conceptual artist Florian Mehnert through his

Light installation "Data to Light".

 

The exhibition shows Olympic champion certificates or certificates

by medal winners, including Marlies Göhr, the

fastest woman in the world, Udo Beyer

(shot put),

Wolfgang Schmidt (discus), Roland Matthes, Cornelia Ender

(swimming), Christian Schenk (decathlon), Anett Pötzsch

(figure skating), Erika Zuchold and Sven Tippelt (gymnastics).

On the occasion of evening events, the

Olympic medals presented by the guests - brought out

their private collections.

 

At the same time, the state representative directs his attention to the

liberties and civil rights. He also illuminates the

Areas of competitive sport in which athletes

be transparent in order to be successful.

 

The state representative Brink: "They fought and great

Victories won - many of us remember those

wonderful moments in which his favorite athlete and

his favorite athlete have celebrated great successes. we

admire them for their talent, will and achievement

wanting to belong to the best in their discipline. For these victories

the athletes put almost everything else on the back burner. we

show with this exhibition and the theme evenings how

very success and pressure are related.”

 

In the fight with and against doping, for example, athletes have to

stay clean, so they have doping controls on them

fare. This also means

always and everywhere

for

controllers to be available. How do athletes hold

Far from doping and how do they succeed in the course of

permanent control to maintain a bit of privacy?

 

In order to be among the best in the meritocracy,

still become athletes today as children

massively drilled. how do they manage

her childhood to

preserve and at the same time in an adult environment

to protect?

 

Athletes are active in clubs, involved in associations –

how

self-determined

be able

you

be if

you

association interests

have to follow

and

contracts

sign and thereby relinquish quite a lot of their rights?

How much had athletes in the GDR victories

for political reasons and at a high price

pay because they are under systematic pressure from the state

were set?

 

Varied program, numerous exhibits and critical
Look at the requirements of competitive sports
 

Many questions, many answers: At the opening of the exhibition

speak Stefan Brink and the sports historian and educator

and functionary Professor Annette Hoffmann about the

social significance of the Olympic Games (Friday

November 26, 6:30 p.m.).

 

The following day entertains the 5000 meter Olympic champion

Dieter Baumann with his cabaret the audience (Saturday,

November 27, 7 p.m.). Discuss in the subsequent conversation

Dieter Baumann and Stefan Brink on how much

Privacy remains with an athlete when he is at his best

level is active.

 

On Wednesday, December 1st,

is the decathlon Olympic champion

Christian Schenk is a guest and reads from his book “Riss.

My life between anthem and hell”.

 

What actually happens with photos of children, not only

be trained to become competitive athletes, but

whose childhood was accompanied intensively by the media and on social media

channels is shown? Under the heading "Posted, Shared,

stolen: How pedo criminals take photos of children on social media

steal” Stefan Brink speaks to the journalist Daniel

Moßbrucker on a topic that is not discussed very often

(Thursday, December 2, 7 p.m.).

 

Around

"Freedom rights

in top-class sport” is the way to go

in the

Discussion round with the Olympic champions in shot put Udo

Beyer and Ilona Longo (nee Slupaniek), the discus thrower

and Olympian Alwin Wagner and the director

of the film "Lone Fighter" Sandra Kaudelka. (Saturday,

December 4th, 8 p.m.).

 

in the

Trains

of

anti-doping fight

are

Competitive athletes glass – almost every personal one

Information give price for a computerized

control system

the

-  how

recent reports

of

sports journalists

Hajo

seppelt

demonstrate

–

so

manipulation is that any basis for this

control system appears to be obsolete. In conversation with Hajo

Seppelt, NADA boss Dr. Lars Mortsiefer, the German

master

in the BMX race Philip Schaub

such as

the

Weightlifter and Olympic participant Sabine Kusterer

Stefan Brink investigates this question (Wednesday, December 8th, 6 p.m.).

 

About the “compatibility of childhood and competitive sport”

speak

on Thursday,

9.12.,

6.30 p.m.,

the

Olympic champion

in the

figure skating

Anett

Potzsch

Rauschenbach, national coach and Olympic champion

Gymnastics Valeri Belenki and young athletes.

 

At the end of the exhibition on December 10, 6 p.m., the

Gretchen asked:

"Sports policy

for athletes:

Freedom or duty?” Stefan Brink talks to him about this

Olympic medalist in artistic gymnastics Eberhard Gienger.

 
 

Further information

 

The cabaret by Dieter Baumann as well as all discussions and

Discussion rounds can also be seen in the live stream.

 

Dates for guided tours are in the program; Appointments for

Groups - even outside opening hours - are after

Arrangement possible (by e-mail to bidib@lfdi.bwl.de or

by telephone on 0711 / 61 55 41 - 33).

 

The entire program and further information can be found here

on

the

home page

of

State representative:

http://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ausstellung_2021

 

Admission to the exhibition, the guided tours and the

events is free. However, we ask that you make a donation to

"Help for Sick Children - The Foundation in the University Children's Hospital

Tuebingen".

Information about the foundation

You will find here:

https://www.hilfe-fuer-kranke-kinder.de/jetzt- spender/.

 

Note on Corona: Please note the

legislation in force at the time of issue. In the

In the rooms of the LfDI, the mask requirement applies.

You can find our hygiene concept here: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/hygienekonzept-corona/.

 

The exhibition was conceived and designed by

Education center BIDIB at the state representative for the

Data protection and freedom of information.

 

 

