
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    11/25/2020
                                Freedom of Information Officer organizes workshop on the transparency platform - from January 1, 2021, around 150 people, including numerous employees from districts, cities and municipalities, took part in an online workshop on Wednesday, November 25, held by the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (LfDI) Rhineland-Palatinate. The event was about the proactive publication of information on the state's transparency platform. On January 1, 2021, the last stage of the State Transparency Act will come into force. From this point in time, all bodies subject to transparency obligations are obliged to proactively publish the information they have, i.e. without a citizen submitting an application for access to information. The state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, Professor Dieter Kugelmann, said: "From 1 January 2021 applies. The transparency platform should then be fully available, which entails content, technical and structural challenges for those responsible. My employees and I are happy to support the bodies that are subject to transparency obligations. In these times, digitization is experiencing a further boost: It is therefore exactly right that information and data such as environmental information must be made available online. This creates transparency and trust. It's about doing something good for the citizens and for democracy.” During the workshop, it was explained, among other things, which information must be proactively published in what manner and why publication may or even must be avoided . Two employees of the LfDI, an employee of the Rhineland-Palatinate Ministry of the Interior and Sport and an employee of the State Office for Data and Information (LDI) showed how concretely information can be published on the transparency platform. In addition, an employee of "Chamaeleon AG" illustrated the hiring process. Further information:-    The Powerpoint presentations for the workshop of the LfDI and the LDI on the website of the LfDI-    Information sheet on the obligation to publish environmental information-    FAQ for bodies subject to transparency obligations on the website of the LfDI- Transparency platform of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate
                                return
                            



