1/12

 File No.: EXP202207415

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) dated June 9, 2022
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the D.G. OF THE PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICE with NIF
S7800001E (hereinafter, DGSEPE).

The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The receipt of an email, sent from the address ***EMAIL.1 and
sent to a plurality of recipients without having made use of the functionality
BCC, allowing each of the recipients to have access to the addresses of
shipping all.

Along with the notification, a screenshot of the message is provided, dated 9/6/22.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward LOPDGDD), said claim was forwarded to the DGSEPE, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on July 8, 2022 as
It is stated in the certificate that is in the file.

Although, no response to this letter of transfer has been received.

THIRD: On September 9, 2022, in accordance with article 65 of
the LOPDGDD, the claim presented by the complaining party was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On November 15, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged violation of Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR and Article 32 of the GDPR,
typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR and Article 83.4 of the GDPR, respectively.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/12

FIFTH: Notified of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the claimed party submitted a written
of allegations in which he stated:

"For all the above, the following ALLEGATIONS are formulated:
 
FIRST. Below is a chronological account of how the DGSPE
had knowledge of facts related to the claim that has motivated
the initiation of the disciplinary file:

A) DATA PROTECTION BREACH
June 9, 2022
The person from the DGSPE who acts as interlocutor between this center
manager and the Department of Data Protection of the Ministry (hereinafter,
DPD), is aware of a data protection breach reported by
email address of the DPD (to whom an individual –different from the claimant-
had sent an email reporting the same facts), in which
following terms:
"Attached below the complaint by email from the interested party..., copied
among the 700 or more email addresses that appear in the
copy of the email sent from (***EMAIL.1) the Unit of
Management of centralized processes of employment offices of the Sub-directorate
General Office of Employment and Employer Services (reporting on a
Office course)."
(Document “Evidence 1 Communication of security breach.msg)
June 10, 2022:
The breach is notified to the person in charge of the treatment: holder of the DGSPE.
(Document “Evidence 1 Communication of security breach.msg)

The security breach is logged in the log enabled for


this (according to the internal procedure).
A report of what happened is requested from the Sub-directorate of offices

of employment and services to the employer (Document "Evidencia2 request
security breach report.msg)
The security breach is evaluated according to the procedure

internally established, without proceeding to notify the AEPD or the
interested.
Mail is sent for diffusion between employment offices,

recalling the rules on the use of email, to which
effect, a document on "Recommendations and good
personal data protection practices for the use of mail
corporate email” approved by the Protection Working Group
of Data of the Community of Madrid (Document "Evidencia3
recommendations and good practices for the use of email
electronic.msg” and Document “Evidence 3 and 4 recommendations and
good practices PDP in use of mail V1.pdf)
Likewise, a reminder is sent to all sub-addresses of

this General Directorate of the Public Employment Service, recalling the
email usage rules. (Document “Evidence 4

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/12

recommendations and good practices for the use of email
for rest subaddresses.msg")

B) COMPLAINT AND REQUEST FOR INFORMATION FROM THE AEPD
July 7, 2022:
The DPD transfers to the interlocution of data protection in the Directorate
General of the Public Employment Service the notice received in the mailbox
corporate, which announced the notification sent by the AEPD to the DGSPE
for the information of the delegation.
July 8, 2022:
Notification of the AEPD is accepted at 05:00 automatically, through
of the registration application of the Community of Madrid (e-reg), in which
the notifications sent via DEHU are dumped, since the NIF of the Community
of Madrid is unique, being the one who holds the legal personality of the
that counseling is lacking.
The AEPD notification, dated July 7, 2022, consists of a
information request to the Data Controller (the DGSPE), to
purpose of the claim presented before it (referring to the breach of
confidentiality discussed above), which has given rise to this procedure
disciplinary action, as well as to be informed about the measures adopted
to avoid similar incidents and other relevant extremes, granting you
a period of one month for it.

July 21, 2022
Before exhausting the aforementioned term of the month, the Report on the
data protection breach requested in the requirement of the AEPD
(Document "Evidencia5 Preparation of report to send to the AEPD.msg" and
the PFD document attached "EXP GAP REPORT XXXXXXXX")".

In response to said allegation, this Spanish Data Protection Agency
It should be noted that the chronological account of the facts exposed; in no case,
distorts the legal classification of the facts and offenses committed.

"SECOND. Unfortunately, coinciding with other topics and with the
intention of leaving the most peremptory closed before the imminence of the
summer vacation, a fatal clerical error was made, leaving
I sent the response to said requirement despite the fact that it was elaborated and
that measures had been taken in this regard.

As an added preventative measure, it is reported that it is currently in
a plan is underway to modernize and improve the information system
called "Comprehensive Employment System", to which it is linked (among other
functionalities), sending emails informing of training courses
training (fact that caused, together with a human error, the erroneous sending of
massive without blind carbon copy). Requirements analysis is in progress
necessary for better and more controlled communication with users
to avoid these errors as much as possible.

In response to this allegation, it should be mentioned that all measures of
security measures adopted to prevent incidents such as the one that occurred between

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/12

within its obligations in compliance with data protection regulations; already
that, as the person responsible for data processing, is obliged to apply the measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the
risk posed by data processing.

These measures are not only measures of computer systems but also
human factor organizational measures.

However, this organization positively values the security measures
adopted later; Although, that does not distort the commission of the aforementioned
infractions.

For all of the above, the allegations presented were DISMISSED.

SIXTH: On March 10, 2023, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing to sanction D.G. OF THE PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, with NIF
S7800001E, for a violation of Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR and Article 32 of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.5 and article 83.4 of the GDPR respectively, with a
penalty of warning for each of the infractions.

SEVENTH: Notification of the proposed resolution, in accordance with the established norms
in Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), on March 27, 2023, the
they presented allegations by the DGSPE.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The receipt by the claimant of an email is accredited
email, dated June 9, 2022, sent from the address ***EMAIL.1 and
sent to a plurality of recipients (700 or more email addresses
e-mail) without having used the BCC functionality.

SECOND: It is proven that the non-use of the BCC functionality in the
sending said email allowed each of the recipients to have
access to everyone's shipping addresses.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/12

initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

In response to the allegations presented to the motion for a resolution by the
claimed entity, the following must be indicated, according to the proposed order:

II

"FIRST. The DGSPE reiterates in the chronological account presented in its
previous pleadings brief, on how he learned of the facts
related to the claim that has led to the initiation of the file
sanction, reiterating that unfortunately on July 21, 2022, before
When the deadline expired, the Report on the data protection breach was ready
requested in the AEPD requirement, but an error was made
administrative fatal, leaving without sending the response to said requirement to
despite the fact that it was elaborated and that measures had been taken at the
regard."

In response to said allegation, this Spanish Data Protection Agency
It should be noted that the chronological account of the facts exposed; in no case,
distorts the legal classification of the facts and offenses committed.

“SECOND The DGSPE informs of the additional measures adopted to
to avoid, as much as possible, the reoccurrence of cases like this, have been the
following:
- Mail is sent for diffusion among the employment offices, reminding the
rules on the use of email, for which purpose is attached
document on "Recommendations and good practices in protection of
personal data for the use of corporate email” approved by
the Data Protection Working Group of the Community of Madrid
(Evidence 1 and 2).
- Likewise, a reminder is sent to all the sub-addresses of this
General Directorate of the Public Employment Service, recalling the rules of
use of email. (Evidence 3).
- On 03/21/2023, an official letter was sent to Mrs. B.B.B. – CEO
of the Agency for the Digital Administration of the Community of Madrid
requesting the urgent adoption of measures that prevent sending, from accounts
generic, emails to multiple users, without these being blind copies and
the need and importance of having the Automated System of
Multichannel Communication requested by this General Directorate in the project
SIE_NUBE, using all available means to expedite the
contracting and development of this system, with the purpose that the
automation of these communications eliminates the possibility of
produce human errors. (Evidence 4).

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/12

- The hiring of a tailor-made training course of 30
hours of duration aimed at DGSPE employees assigned to offices of
employment, on data protection and digital security. (Evidence 5)”.

In response to said allegation, this Agency values positively all the
measures taken.

All the measures adopted allow us to affirm that the person responsible before issuing this
resolution has already adopted adequate measures to adjust its action to the
protection regulations, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the
GDPR, according to which each control authority may "order the person responsible or
processor that the processing operations comply with the
provisions of this Regulation, where applicable, in a certain way
and within a specified period…”.
Consequently, the imposition of any measure in this sense will not proceed in
the present resolution.

II

Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

Article 5.1.f) "Principles relating to processing" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Personal data will be:
(…)

f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of personal data;
personal information, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against its
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical or
appropriate organizational procedures (“integrity and confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is clear that the personal data of the complaining party and of all
both recipients, registered in the DGSEPE database, were improperly
exposed to third parties on June 9, 2022 by sending an email
e-mail without a blind copy, your email address being accessible.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

IV.

If confirmed, the aforementioned violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR could lead to the
mission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR that under the rubric
"General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of 20 000 000 EUR maximum or, treating-
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
overall annual total business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/12

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent
lien under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that:

"The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
rias to the present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very serious”
you see” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees established
two in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

Penalty for violation of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR

V

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR section 7 establishes:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under art.
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
of, and to what extent, imposing administrative fines on public authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of liability”
responsible or responsible for the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge: ...
 

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communi-
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration…

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
only, the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct the effects of the
offense that was committed.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
enough evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/12

will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
be applicable.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and
accredit the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

Therefore, it is appropriate to sanction the DGSEPE with a warning for the infringement
of article 5.1.f) of the GDPR,

SAW

GDPR Article 32

Article 32 "Security of treatment" of the GDPR establishes:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature of
nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, as well as probability risks
and variable severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsibility
responsible and the person in charge of the treatment will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, will include
yeah, among others:

a) the pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-
permanent silence of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of processing
I lie.

2. When assessing the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
The risks presented by the data processing, in particular as a consequence
of the destruction, loss or accidental or illegal alteration of personal data transmitted
collected, preserved or processed in another way, or the unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mecha-
certification document approved in accordance with article 42 may serve as an element to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/12

demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
article.

4. The controller and the processor shall take measures to ensure that
any person acting under the authority of the controller or processor and having
ga access to personal data can only process such data following instructions
of the controller, unless it is required to do so by Union law or by
the Member States”.

In the present case, at the time of the security breach, there is no record
that the DGSEPE. had reasonable security measures in place based on the
estimated possible risks.

It is evident that the DGSEPE did not use the procedure for sending emails.
e-mails when they are addressed to multiple recipients, consisting of using the option
offered by the email application through the field known as "com-
"hidden pia" (CCO), allowing each of the receivers to have in view the rest
shipping addresses; and therefore, violating the current regulations regarding
Data Protection.

Consequently, the DGSEPE did not have adequate measures to guarantee
the confidentiality, integrity and availability of processing systems and services
I lie.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the GDPR

VII

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the GDPR could lead to the commission of
sion of the offenses typified in article 83.4 of the GDPR that under the rubric
"General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 10,000,000 EUR or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume of
overall annual total business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge according to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infractions" establishes that "Consti-
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 have infractions
of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
the present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 "Infractions considered serious"
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/12

"Based on what is established in article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the
They are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a vulnerability.
substantial portion of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
have appropriate measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the
treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679”. (…)

Penalty for violation of article 32 of the GDPR

VIII

Article 83 "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" of the
GDPR section 7 establishes:

"Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under art.
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
of, and to what extent, imposing administrative fines on public authorities and bodies
public establishments established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of liability”
responsible or responsible for the treatment" of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge: …

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communi-
autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration…

2. When the managers or managers listed in section 1 commit
any of the offenses referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
only, the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures that should be adopted to cease the conduct or to correct the effects of the
offense that was committed.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
enough evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
be applicable.
Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and executives, and
accredit the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the
sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or regional Gazette that
corresponds.

4. The data protection authority must be informed of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/12

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.”

Therefore, it is appropriate to sanction the DGSEPE with a warning for the infringement
of article 32 of the GDPR,

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the D.G. OF THE PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, with NIF
S7800001E, for a violation of Article 5.1.f) of the GDPR typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR, a warning sanction.

IMPOSE the D.G. OF THE PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, with NIF S7800001E, for
an infringement of Article 32 of the GDPR typified in Article 83.4 of the GDPR, a
warning sanction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to D.G. OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE OF
EMPLOYMENT.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/12

documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

