1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00194/2020

938-0419

RESOLUTION
 

 OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR ADVANCE PAYMENT

In sanctioning procedure PS/00194/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to the entity, CABRERA & GIL ABOGADOS, S.L.P. with CIF.:
B84220193, (hereinafter, "the entity claimed"), by virtue of a complaint filed
by A.A.A., (hereinafter, “the claimant”) and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 03/19/19, he entered this Agency, filed a complaint
by the claimant in which he indicated, among others, the following:

“On January 11, 2019, a lawyer from the Cabera y Gil office sent the letter
that accompanied the company ***EMPRESA.1 and the undersigned, putting in his
knowledge of my personal data and home address without my knowledge and
consent to do so, said company being totally unrelated to the appearing party,
without corporate, employment, shareholding or any other relationship”.

Attached to the claim document is a copy of the letter sent by the Firm
Lawyers Cabrera & Gil, addressed to the claimant, with a copy (“c/copy”), to the entity
***COMPANY.1, in which they contact him, on behalf of his client,
***COMPANY.2, in relation to the lawsuit filed.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 05/15/19, an informative request is addressed to
the claimed entity.

THIRD: On 06/06/19, the entity claimed, sends this Agency a written
in which, among others, it indicates:

“We expose the facts that are inserted in the claim: -a lawyer from the office-
law firm Cabrera & Gil Abogados, S.L.P. has sent a burofax to the company
***COMPANY.1 addressed to the claimant (their personal data are indicated at the top).
nals: name. surnames and postal address) on behalf of your client, the company
***COMPANY.2, of which he states that he was a partner in the past. The complainant criticizes that
your personal data is being disclosed to the aforementioned company *** COMPANY.1
with which it does not maintain any type of relationship (neither corporate, labor nor shareholder).

The first decision adopted regarding this claim has been to activate the proto-
colo of security breach and/or leakage of confidential information and personal data
implemented by Cabrera & Gil Abogados SLP, which is provided as (document no.
mere 2).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

This protocol contains the following action parameters:

1.- Whoever had knowledge of an incident. related to personal data
them. report the situation internally without delay, informing the management team
tive. 2.- An internal audit will be carried out within the first 6 hours
3.- An external audit will be carried out if deemed necessary
4.- An estimation of the impact will be made.
5.- In the event that we find ourselves faced with a leak of personal data
significant and/or that seriously jeopardizes the rights or freedoms of the person.
In accordance with the RGPD, the security breach will be notified to the AEPD
6.- Taking measures to mitigate the leak or security breach.
7.- Evaluation of the result and the effectiveness of the actions taken.

The corresponding record has been drawn up from the activation of the action protocol
whose certificate is attached as [document number 3) dated May 20,
2019:
The agreements and valuations taken as a consequence of the activation of the proto-
colo of breach and/or leak of information are the following:

The communication has been made by the AEPD. on May 10, 2019; denun-
Cient: A.A.A.; Data Processing Registry. ***COMPANY.2 interposition of
there.

Facts: "- A lawyer from the law firm Cabrera & Gil Abogados S.L.P. has
sent a burofax to the company ***EMPRESA.1 addressed to the claimant (in the upper part)
Your personal data is indicated above: name, surnames and postal address) in nom-
name of his client, the company ***EMPRESA.2, of which they state that he was a partner in the
past.

The claimant criticizes that his personal data is being disclosed to the aforementioned
company ***EMPRESA.1, with which it does not maintain any type of relationship (nor
estuary. neither labor nor stock).

After the internal audit was carried out, within the first six hours, it was determined that
no information has been stolen. There is no filtering. are not affected
entities or people. There is no leak of information so there is no liability.

A.A.A. has been the object of filing a complaint by the company ***EMPRESA.2 cu-
I defend interests. It is attached as (Doc. 4) acknowledgment receipt before the jurisdiction
penal. and as (Doc. 5) complaint filed before the criminal jurisdiction.

The filing of said claim with the AEPD against “Cabrera & Gil Abogados.
SLP” is in response and in retaliation for the complaint filed on February 28,
2019 in defense of the rights and interests of our client. one month prior to
claim before the AEPD. A.A.A. is a partner of ***EMPRESA.2 and has been represen-
legal document of the company ***COMPANY.2 is attached as (Doc. 6) power of representation
tion and in direct relationship with ***COMPANY.1 of which he has been and is a representative of
done. The complaint is implemented among other reasons for this in direct relation to
unfair competition.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

Action protocols related to confidentiality agreements are reviewed.
ity and processing of data transferred by the company ***EMPRESA.2 as responsible
of transferred data and Cabrera & Gil SLP as assignee and in charge of the treatment of
data to defend your rights. As well as the internal agreements and other protocols
with the dispatch staff and the person responsible and authorized to carry the
proceedings. It is provided as (Doc. 7) confidentiality and data transfer agreement
between the client as the person in charge and the office as the person in charge of treatment. Be it by-
ta as (Doc. 8), confidentiality agreement and data processing by la-
office attached to the office signed by B.B.B.. Provided as (Doc. 9) Registration of
Client treatment activities with ***COMPANY.2.

All requests made to A.A.A. has been in quality and related to its
representation of legal entities either from ***EMPRESA.2 or ***EMPRESA.1
Article 19 of the LOPD is applicable.

As we have said since February 28, 2019, a petition has been filed
complaint before the criminal courts against A.A.A. so the personal data
object of treatment have been obtained in legitimate interest.

The claim is from March 19, 2019. So this is a month after the
filing of the complaint. The provisions regarding the legality of the
data. both the consent of the interested party who is ***COMPANY.2 as responsible
ble of treatment, such as in relation to A.A.A. to be covered by a provision
legal, as is stipulated in the Law of Criminal Procedure article 277 in re-
relationship with the provisions of the articles of the Criminal Code and legitimacy in the interest of
law determined in the effective judicial protection of article 24 of the CE, all of
in accordance with the articles in article 6.1 RGPD and 8 of the LOPD.

The protection of the information has been carried out correctly, respecting the
three basic principles: confidentiality. integrity and availability.

Confidentiality, the information is accessible only by authorized personnel.
C: B.B.B. and by C.C.C.

The integrity of the information, the information is correct and free of modifications.
nes and errors. The lawsuit is precisely to denounce his responsibility as
de facto representative with the company ***COMPANY.1

Disponibility. The information is accessible to authorized persons or systems.
raised when necessary. The management team does not consider the audit necessary
external depending on gravity. size, filtration level.

The impact estimate is level 0. It has been taken into account in the first place, if in
the leak of the information there is or is not personal data and level of the same.

Reputational damage.- There is no reputational damage. Level 0.
Regulatory consequences that entail pecuniary, administrative,
criminal, civil, ethical. Level 0. Economic valuation - level 0.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

We are not dealing with issues of a significant personal nature and/or that
seriously jeopardizes the rights or freedoms of the person, in accordance with the Re-
European Data Protection Regulation. Therefore, it is not necessary to notify the violation.
security information to the AEPD or notify the interested party.

Taking measures to mitigate the leak or security breach. All me-
measures taken by the management team.

The evaluation of the result and the effectiveness of the actions taken. The effectiveness of
The actions taken have been positive and were within the current legality.
people, however, the implementation of more rigorous measures will be valued to avoid
Remove as far as possible any affectation.

Second.- It is not found in the cases of exercises of the regulated rights
in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD.

Third.- The facts provided to the contrary, object of the claim dated 19
March 2019 are the following already mentioned:

A lawyer from the law firm CABRERA & GIL ABOGADOS S.L.P. has in-
sent a burofax & the company ***COMPANY.1. addressed by the claimant (in the upper part)
Your personal data is indicated above: name, surnames and postal address) in nom-
name of his client, the company ***EMPRESA.2, of which they state that he was a partner in the
past. - The claimant criticizes that his personal data is being disclosed to the
mentioned company *** COMPANY.1 with which it does not maintain any type of relationship
(neither corporate, nor labor nor shareholder).

The facts are motivated as a response to the complaint dated February 28,
2019 that this office has presented before the criminal jurisdiction: On February 28,
February 2019, the company ***EMPRESA.2 (complainant), filed a complaint, in the form
ma and with the requirements indicated in article 277 and concordant with the Law of
Criminal Prosecution, against A.A.A. (defendant). From the point of view of
data protection and its legitimacy to initiate the same is fully justified.
from the evidentiary point of view, by the various documents related in the
dot first.

The legitimacy of “Cabrera & Gil Abogados, S.L.P for the possession of personal data
sound. and its treatment, is justified from a double point of view, by a
side, from the effective judicial protection that our client ***EMPRESA.2 has to the defense
arising from the illegitimate actions and omissions carried out by A.A.A. and whose “consent”
express ment' is included in the confidentiality and data transfer agreement as
data controller; on the other hand, it would be justified according to the interest
legitimate. collected in article 6 of the RGPD and 8 of the LOPD, and that the law of prosecution
criminal conduct in relation to the criminal code (articles 252, 253 and 248.1) covers
ture to that possession and transfer of personal data to the Judicial Bodies and the investi-
tigation of the facts in which other entities or persons are related.
legal or physical entities, as is the case of ***EMPRESA.1, especially when it is the
own public administration through the DGT (General Directorate of Traffic) which '
puts on the track' that A.A.A. is using an account of
which is the owner together with ***EMPRESA.1 so that, causing deception in the DGT, in-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

enter the same, a money that corresponds to ***COMPANY.2. It is provided as
(Doc. 10) email from the D.G.T. The complaint requests as diligence the
investigation of holders of said account from Banco BBVA. A.A.A. missing to
the truth when he 'insinuates' that he is not a member of ***EMPRESA.2, causing an error in
as the data may be inaccurate.

This person has been and is a member of ***EMPRESA.2, and has been, as we have said, re-
legal representative of the company *** COMPANY.2. On October 20, 2005,
Power of attorney was granted to the defendant today, by the company ***EMPRESA.2,
with full powers to manage its assets, by virtue of a deed
of power granted on that date, authorized before the Madrid Notary.

The power of representation was revoked because the company detected an inappropriate use and
for their own benefit, and their employment relationship was terminated, subject to
statement in the complaint. The data is processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in
relationship with the interested party. They have been collected for specific purposes. explicit and
legitimate rights to defend the rights of our client by filing a complaint with
date prior to the filing of the claim with the AEPD and have not been processed
subsequently inconsistently.

In addition, the data, as we have seen, are adequate, pertinent and limited.
to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they have been processed in accordance with
the data minimization principle; They are exact and updated data.

The claimant criticizes that his personal data is being disclosed to the aforementioned
company *** COMPANY.1 with which it does not maintain any type of relationship or corporate
neither labor nor stock. Precisely, the complaint also deals with behaviors of
unfair competition 248.1 of the Penal Code by A.A.A. regarding ***EM-
PRESA.2 and in direct relationship with ***COMPANY.1 of which he has been and is a representative
you in fact

The company ***EMPRESA.2, detected that the defendant was carrying out work for companies
companies of the competition, during the period in which he was as proxy, and
acted as de facto administrator of the entity ***COMPANY.2. The defendant today,
while he was the proxy of the company ***EMPRESA.2, he created a front company,
***COMPANY.1, through a sole partner and administrator, D.D.D. being the object
cial and commercial activity of this company, the same as that of my sponsored. For
For this, he made use of reserved information that as a partner and proxy of ***EMPRE-
SA.2, had in the sector.

Specifically, and as noted above, ***EMPRESA.2, received on the 2nd of
March 2016. email from the DGT (General Directorate of Traffic), in which
It was indicated that after checking the bank details of ***EMPRESA.2, these differed
of the habitual ones that consisted in said client.

Subsequently. my client detected that said account was owned by A.A.A. and ***EM-
DAM.1. That is to say, the account provided by the defendant today to the client of my sponsor-
da had the purpose of benefiting from the amount that would be received by the DGT.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

On this occasion, the defendant tried, through the deception and confusion of a third party,
in this case from the DGT, of appropriating certain amounts that were intended for
sponsored by me for the provision of services in the scope of its activity, facilitating
for this an account number of which he was the owner, apparently, together with the company
*** COMPANY.1, to charge for such services, without being achieved since by
from the DGT, a certificate was requested so that my client could prove the alleged
change of ownership of the account you used regularly.

In the face of unfair competition behaviors and by virtue of article 6 of the RGPD and 8 of
the aforementioned LOPD. my client has the right to defend himself and to find out until
Where have fraudulent business practices come from? The data transfers have
been on the other hand. those strictly necessary and directly related to their
representation data: name. surnames and address not using other data such as your
D.N.I or other data related to your physical person. Being within the prescribed
therefore by article 19 of the LOPD as business data.

We consider relevant the legal basis for which, in accordance with the article
ass 65 of the LOPD there is no place for the opening of any sanctioning file
because the claim is manifestly unfounded and in accordance with article
74 of the LOPD not to have caused damage to the affected party for being protected
our legitimacy for the treatment and transfer of data. in article 6 of the RGPD and
8 of the LOPD, falls within the gel established legitimate interest. The conduct before
previously described, carried out by the defendant, is included in the crime of fraud of the
Article 248.1 of the current CP. Crime with the aggravating circumstance of article 250.1.6º of the CP.

What has been seen so far determines that, if such facts exist. after your verification
timely by the consultant, the behavior of the consultant consisting of communicating to the
prosecutor or the judges a possible criminal act would not only be protected by the legisla-
tion of data protection, but it would be imposed by procedural legislation.
The transfer of data requested would be covered by a law: "(...) if the law contemplates the
birth of an obligation between the parties, the necessary corollary is that the law also
must also contemplate the need to know the necessary circumstances to be able to
right to exercise the subjective rights that arise from said obligation. Consequently
my client, before the commission of a crime in his person, assets or property committed
by a third party, it must be able to know the circumstances necessary to exercise its rights.
rights, and if article 24 of the Constitution recognizes the right to judicial protection
effective, developed, among other regulations, by the Law of Civil Procedure, or the Law
of Criminal Procedure will have to go to these, art. 399 of the LEC or 277 of the
Law of Criminal Procedure, to see the circumstances that a decision must have
court order. or in this case a complaint and among them, is, that they have
to include "the data and circumstances of the plaintiff and the defendant, or in this case, that
reilado and the domicile or residence in which they can be summoned", so it is possible
conclude that the transfer of the requested data is covered by the exception
tion provided for in the LOPD and does not require the consent of the interested party.

In the present case. obligations arise between the parties, according to art. 1089 of the Code
civil (Cc), art.1092 Cc. and the art. 1093 CC Therefore. of both the crime and the
Non-contractual liability arises obligations between the parties. In the LEC art.
399 establishes the circumstances that the demand must contain: and among them are
finds that the demand must include "the data and circumstances of the actor and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

of the defendant and the domicile or residence where they can be summoned".
LECr the exercise of the action is exercised by means of a complaint. according to art. 277
LECr. which requires that the name be stated on it. surnames and neighborhood
the defendant, that is, the law establishes the need to provide personal data of the
person against whom the complaint is filed in order to be able to properly identify
(be it the name, surnames, or other circumstances, photography, tattoos. Characteristics)
personal cases etc.-). Although in our specific case, only
surname name and address. Basic data.

The transfer of data has a legitimate interest: A second possibility that excepts
The need for the consent of the interested party is constituted by the existence of an interest
legitimate, provided that in an exercise of weighting between said legitimate interest and the
fundamental rights of those affected prevail the first over the second.
So. the Judgment of the Court of Justice expressly declared the direct effect of the article
Article 7 f) of Directive 95/46/EC. according to which: “Member States shall have
that the processing of personal data can only be carried out if (...) it is necessary
for the satisfaction of the legitimate interest pursued by the data controller
or by the third party or third parties to whom the data is communicated, provided that it does not prevail
the interest or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interested party that require
are protected under Article 1(1) of this Directive".

The GDPR. contemplates as legitimate cause for data processing the interest
legitimate according to its article 6.1.f). So. to determine if the application would proceed
of the aforementioned precept, the weighting rule foreseen therein must be applied;
that is, it is necessary to assess whether, in the specific case under analysis, there will be a
legitimate interest pursued by the data controller or by the third party
ros to which the data is communicated. that prevails over the interest or rights
and fundamental freedoms of the interested party that require protection in accordance with the
set out in article 1 of the GDPR. or if, on the contrary, the fundamental rights or
The interests of the interested parties to whom the data processing refers must
prevail over the legitimate interest on which the person in charge or the third party intends to base
ment the treatment or transfer of personal data. before the commission
of a crime, it is clear that the interests of my client prevail and not the other way around. You-
Effective judicial fabric: In the present case. the legitimate interest invoked refers specifically
especially to the fundamental right to effective judicial protection (art. 24 CE). as far
in that the illicit actions and omissions carried out by the "interested party" and included in the
supporting documentation are necessary to file the complaint. The scope of
right to judicial protection in relation to the test has been addressed. among other. in
STC 212/2013, of December 16. The scope of the right to judicial protection in re-
relationship with the test has been addressed. among other. in the STC 21212013. of 16 de di-
December. in which reference is made, citing the STC 88/2014. from May 28 to “at
intimate relations of the right to proof with other rights guaranteed in art.
24 CE. The relationship between the rights to personal data protection and guardianship
court has been. likewise, analyzed in the Report of this AEPD 469/2011 of 30 December
December 2011. in which the following is indicated:

"In this point. It should be remembered that the AEPD has already had the opportunity to analyze the
possible concurrence in a certain case of data processing of the rights
fundamental rights to the protection of personal data and judicial protection
effectiveness of the data controller. Thus, it has been considered, for example, that the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

treatment by a lawyer of the data of the opposing party of his client finds
its protection in the recognition of the latter by article 24.1 of the Constitution of
their right to effective judicial protection. which implies, according to section 2, the defense
lawyer and the use of the pertinent means of proof for the defense of his right.
The enforceability of the consent of the opponent, in this case, of A.A.A., for the trafficking

storage of your data, or by your lawyer would mean leaving the storage at your disposal
collection of the necessary information so that your client can exercise, fully,
their right to effective judicial protection. Thus, the lack of these data may imply, logically,
cally, a decrease in the possibility of contribution by the interested party of “the means
of relevant evidence for its defense”, violating another of the guarantees derived
of the aforementioned right to effective protection and restricting the possibility of obtaining full
development of this right.

For all of it. although no provision with the force of Law expressly establishes the
possibility of treatment by lawyers and solicitors of data referring to the opposite
of his client within a given legal proceeding, it is evident that different
Cha possibility brings direct cause of a norm of constitutional rank. regulatory
In addition to one of the fundamental rights and public freedoms enshrined by
the Constitution. and developed by the regulatory laws of each of the Orders
Jurisdictional. in the precepts referring to the representation and defense of the
you. For all of it. It exists, from our point of view. legal authorization for
data processing, which is covered by Article 24 of the Constitution itself.
tion and its development rules.

FOURTH: On 07/20/20, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the claimed entity, by virtue of
the established powers, for failing to comply with the provisions of current regulations and
fining the claimed entity a penalty of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros) for the in-
fraction of article 6 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On 07/29/20, the entity claimed has proceeded to pay the
sanction in the amount of 1,600 euros (one thousand six hundred euros) using one of the
the two reductions provided for in the Initial Agreement transcribed above,
presenting in this Agency a letter in which, among others, it is indicated:

“Voluntary payment option without acknowledgment of responsibility:
That in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the case of
that the sanction to be imposed was a fine, may, at any time prior to the
resolution of this procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the sanction
proposal, which will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount thereof,
equivalent in this case to €400. With the application of this reduction, the sanction
would be established at €1,600 and its payment would imply the termination of the procedure.
The effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or renunciation of any action or
administrative appeal against the sanction. (…)

With the application of this reduction, the penalty would be established at €1,600,
acknowledges responsibility on the part of “Cabrera & Gil Abogados and desists

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

expressly, of any action or resource in the administrative channel against the
sanction".

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction infractions committed against said Regulation.
ment.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Co-Administrative Procedure
of the Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the heading "Termi-
nation in sanctioning procedures” provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the impropriety has been justified.
incidence of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in any
moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure, except in
regarding the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the indemnity
tion for the damages caused by the commission of the infraction.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least, the
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other. The
aforementioned reductions, must be determined in the notification of initiation of the
procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The percentage of reduction provided for in this section may be increased by regulation.
mentally.”

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data

RESOLVES:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

FIRST: DECLARE the termination of the procedure, PS/194/2020, in accordance with
accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity, CABRERA & GIL
LAWYERS, S.L.P.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this Re-
The solution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Audien-
National Authority, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
Fourth additional section of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-Administrative, within two months from the day after
to the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

