1/8

 File No.: PS/00527/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the CLAIMANT party) dated February 15,
2021 filed a claim with the AEPD. The claim is directed against the AYUN-
OPENING PROCESS with NIF P1000200D (hereinafter, TOWN HALL).
The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

The complaining party states that the ***PUESTO.1 of that CITY COUNCIL has revealed
hand your personal data (name, surname and email address) to third parties through
by WhatsApp.

The events took place on January 20, 2021.

Along with the claim, an image of a WhatsApp screen is provided in which
the mail sent to the CITY HALL on January 20, 2021 by the RE-
CLAIMANT denouncing a problem that occurred on his property.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the CITY COUNCIL, to
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer was sent on March 16 through the Notification Service
Electronic and Enabled Electronic Address, being notified that same day.

Currently, no response to this letter has been received.

THIRD: On May 15, 2021, and in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 65.5 of the LOPDGDD, the claim filed was admitted for processing.
ta by the CLAIMANT party.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of con-
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Protection Regulation)
tion of Data, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following
extreme tips:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

The CLAIMING party provides, together with the claim letter, an image of a
WhatsApp screen from which it appears that it has been shared through di-
cha application the image of an email sent by the claimant to AYUN-
TAMIENTO (ayuntamientoabertura@hotmail.com) requesting the intermediation of the
City Hall in a matter.

In this image you can clearly see the name, surnames and email address
email of the CLAIMING PARTY. It is also appreciated the name of the contact of
WhatsApp (B.B.B.) that coincides with the name of the ***PUESTO.1 of the municipality.

On June 15, 2021, the data inspection is requested, by writing
addressed to the CITY COUNCIL, which within 10 days provides certain information
tion and documentation in relation to the facts denounced.

Said letter was withdrawn by the addressee on June 15, 2021, as certified by
the Support service of the Electronic Notifications Service and Electronic Address
Enabled, without receiving a response to it, which gave rise to the opening
sanctioning procedure PS/00461/2021, within the framework of which the representative
City Council submits a letter of allegations, dated October 6,
2021, in which he makes the following statements in relation to the facts here
reported:

- In relation to the email sent by the complainant to the City Council-
***PUESTO.1 acted with all good faith upon being ad-
made by the denouncer of the danger that some children of the lo-
quality as they are mounted on the wall adjoining your property, whose wall is not
It was completely closed, and in the presence of a mastiff dog.

- The same complainant sent an email to the City Council, requesting
asking (...) to act, before which the *** POSITION.1, using a mobile to name-
man of the City Council, warned the mothers of the children via WhatsApp, without in-
any attempt to violate the right to privacy or data processing
of third parties.

FIFTH: On January 3, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for alleged infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD, typified in the
articles 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On March 11, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that, due to the infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD, typified in
articles 83.5 and 83.4 of the RGPD, the CITY COUNCIL OF ABERTURA is sanctioned
with a WARNING for each of them.

SEVENTH: The proposed resolution was made available to the CITY COUNCIL
OF OPENING, through the Electronic Notifications Service and Address

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

Electronic Enabled, on March 11, 2022, producing the rejection
automatically, on March 22 of that same year, after ten days had elapsed
natural from its availability for access according to paragraph 2, article
43, of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public administrations.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

 

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On January 20, 2021, it was shared through the application of
WhatsApp the image of an email sent by the CLAIMANT party to
TOWN HALL
the
mediation of the same in a matter that affected his right to property
private.

(town hallabertura@hotmail.com)

requesting

 

SECOND: The claimed entity acknowledges, in relation to the email in-
sent to the part RECLAMOUSLY, that the CITY COUNCIL would have sent it, although
states that he acted in good faith, warning him of the danger that the children of
the locality to be uploaded to the adjoining wall of the property of the RECLAIM-
MANTE, whose wall was not completely closed, and in the presence of a
mastiff dog

It was the CLAIMING party who sent the email to the CITY COUNCIL,
requesting (...) to act, to which the *** POSITION.1, using a mobile in the name
of the CITY HALL, warned by WhatsApp to the mothers of the children, without attempting al-
none of violating the right to privacy or the processing of data of third parties.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the free
circulation of these data (hereinafter GDPR); recognizes each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, of
Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter,
LOPDGDD), the director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

II

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of the
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the proven facts constitute
of infraction.
The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of the
Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, which states that:
"1. The personal data will be:
“f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
your transcript.

The infringement is typified in Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, which considers as such:

“the basic principles for treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”.

In the present case, it is stated that the personal data of the CLAIMING party,
contained in the CITY COUNCIL database, were unduly disseminated
when revealing personal data (name, surnames and email address) to third parties through
see WhatsApp, violating the principle of confidentiality.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

III

The aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD could lead to the commission of the in-
fractions typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the heading "Conditions
rules for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, treating-
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent
lien pursuant to articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
ries to this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very serious”
you see” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established
two in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

IV

Article 32 of the GDPR

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of the
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the proven facts constitute
of infraction.

The defendant is accused of committing an infraction for violation of the
Article 32 of the RGPD, which states that:
"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability
variable and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsible
The controller and the data processor will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes
yeah, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and re-
permanent silence of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment
I lie.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken
ta the risks that the treatment of data presents, in particular as a consequence
of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data transmitted
stored, stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mechanism
certification body approved under article 42 may serve as an element for
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
Article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
Any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and having
access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of Union Law or
the Member States”.

In the present case, at the time of the security breach, there is no evidence
that the CITY COUNCIL had reasonable security measures in place
of the possible estimated risks.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

Disseminate by WhatsApp, through a corporate mobile phone, an email
sent to the CITY COUNCIL by the CLAIMING party denouncing a problem
occurred on your property, without anonymizing your personal data, does not guarantee the confi-
confidentiality, integrity and availability of treatment systems and services.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

v

The aforementioned infringement of article 32 of the RGPD could lead to the commission of the infringements
typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the heading “General conditions
rules for the imposition of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or, treating-
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:

5)

the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that "Consti-
The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 are infractions
of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to
this organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is con-
they are considered serious and the infractions that suppose a vulnerability will prescribe after two years.
substantial portion of the items mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:
…

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
be appropriate to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk of the
treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679…

Article 83 “General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines” of the
RGPD section 7 establishes:

SAW

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities by virtue of art.
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
of, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of liability”
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge: ...
 

c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
Autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration…

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law
nica, the competent data protection authority will issue a resolution
sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish the
measures to be taken to stop the conduct or correct the effects of the
offense that had been committed.
(…)

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article. (…)”

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the OPENING CITY COUNCIL, with NIF P1000200D, by
an infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5 and
83.4 of the RGPD respectively, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the OPENING CITY COUNCIL.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-100322

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

