1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00170/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In the sanctioning procedure PS/00170/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to the entity, MAX2PROTECT, S.L. with CIF: B88606355, holder of
the website: https://www.amonmed.es/ and email: testcovid@amonme-
d.es, (hereinafter, "the party claimed"), by virtue of a complaint filed by
A.A.A. , (hereinafter, "the claimant party"), and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 12/23/20, this Agency entered the letter of
claim, which indicated, among others, the following: "I receive spam from testcovi-
d@amonmed.es several times a day (commercial communications received are attached)
dated 12/21/20)”.

SECOND: On 02/16/21, this Agency sent a request
information to the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4
of Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the protection of personal data and
guarantee of digital rights, (“LOPDGDD”).

THIRD: On 04/14/21, this Agency received a written response to the
request made, indicating therein, among others, that: “databases,
from which the advertising campaigns are carried out by email, are purchased from
a central communication provider and are also obtained from access pages
public on the internet.

FOURTH: On 04/19/21, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, an agreement is issued for the admission of the complaint filed.
given by the claimant, in accordance with article 65 of the LPDGDD, when considering
that the response given by the respondent to this Agency in relation to the facts
claimed does not prove its legitimacy for the treatment of the data and the sending of co-
commercial ammunition.

FIFTH: On 05/08/21, this Agency has been able to verify that, in the "Policy
of Privacy” of the web, https://www.amonmed.es/politica-de-privacidad exists, among
other, the following information:
    
“(…) The person responsible for processing the information on this website is:
MAX2PROTECT, S.L.; Technical Avenue, 43-Loc. 18-22. 28522 RIVAS VACIAMA-
DRID MADRID; Telephone: +672 675 477 E-mail: info@amonmed.es”

It has also been possible to verify that, on the contact page of the website,
https://www.amonmed.es/contacto/ there is the following information: “(…) Our co-
Emails are: testcovid@amonmed.es; citas@amonmed.es”.

SIXTH: On 05/11/21, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed entity, by virtue of the
powers established by:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

-

-

Violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD, regarding the illicit treatment carried out
of the personal data obtained from public access pages on the internet,
with an initial fine of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros).
Violation of article 21.1 of the LSSI, regarding the sending of communications
without the express consent of the interested party, with an initial fine
of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros).

FIFTH: The initiation of the file was notified on 05/28/21, as of today, there is no
that any response has been given to the initiation of the file, within the period
granted for it.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and do-
documentation presented by the parties, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1.- As indicated in the claim brief, the claimant received emails not
of the claimed entity without its consent.

2.- At the request of this Agency, the entity claimed states that ““the bases
of data, from which the advertising campaigns are carried out by email,
they buy from a central communication provider and are also obtained from websites
of public access on the internet.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

- Regarding the processing of personal data:

I- Competition.

Is competent to resolve this Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, by virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the Re-
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding
to the Protection of Natural Persons with regard to Data Processing
Personal and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD) recognizes each Authority
of Control and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD).

- Regarding the sending of advertising emails without the consent

Of the interested:

The Director of the Spanish Agency is competent to resolve this Procedure.
Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.1, paragraph
second, of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on Services of the Society of the
Information and Electronic Commerce (LSSI), is competent to initiate and resolve this
Sanctioning Procedure, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data.

 About the origin and processing of personal data of the claimant
II-S
 
 :

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

The RGPD deals, in its article 5, with the principles that must govern the treatment
of personal data and mentions among them that of legality, loyalty and transparency,
pointed out, in the first section, that:

1.- Personal data will be processed lawfully, loyally and transparently in relation to
tion with the interested party (“lawfulness, loyalty and transparency”)”;

2.- The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in paragraph 1 and able to demonstrate it ("proactive responsibility").

In turn, article 6.1 of the RGPD, on the legality of the processing of personal data,
establishes that the processing of personal data will only be lawful if it complies with the
least one of the following conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the data controller or by a third party, provided that said interests
interests do not prevail or the fundamental rights and freedoms of the interest
cases that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the interested
sado be a child. The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply
to the treatment carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions”.

In the present case, the entity alleges that it uses the personal data obtained from the
purchase from communication providers and those obtained from those published on pages
public access on the internet.

Regarding the allegations made by the entity, it should be noted that, although the
personal data is published on the internet voluntarily, this does not allow its
indiscriminate treatment by third parties as they do not have the legitimacy
necessary for this, in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD, so these facts
suppose the violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD, where the legality of the
treatment of personal data, indicated above.

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD, considers very serious, for prescription purposes,
“The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of the license
tude of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated and according to the result of the investigation,
purposes of setting the amount of the sanction to be imposed in this case, it is considered
that it is appropriate to grade it according to the following aggravating criteria that
establishes article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

The duration of the infraction, (paragraph a) taking into account that the first
mail received by the claimant of this type of communication is dated
on 12/21/20.
  

The balance of the circumstances contemplated above, with respect to the
infraction committed by the entity, by violating the provisions of article 6.1 of the
RGPD, allows you to set a penalty of 2,000 euros, (two thousand euros).

III-About the sending of commercial communications through emails

Sending commercial emails without the express consent of the
recipient, constitute an infraction attributable to the claimed entity, to the
provided in article 21 of the LSSI, which provides that:

"1. The sending of advertising or promotional communications by co-
electronic mail or other equivalent means of electronic communication that previously
have not been requested or expressly authorized by the recipients.

2. The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply when there is a relationship
prior contractual agreement, provided that the provider had legally obtained the
contact details of the recipient and will use them to send communications such as
commercials referring to products or services of your own company that are similar
those who were initially contracted with the client.

In any case, the provider must offer the recipient the possibility of opposing the
processing of your data for promotional purposes through a simple procedure
and free, both at the time of data collection and in each of the co-
commercial communications directed to you.

When the communications have been sent by email, said means
This must necessarily consist of the inclusion of an email address
unique or other valid electronic address where this right can be exercised, remain-
Sending communications that do not include said address is prohibited.”

The aforementioned infraction is typified as minor in art. 38.4.d) of said regulation
ma, which qualifies as such, "The sending of commercial communications by electronic mail
single or other equivalent means of electronic communication when in said shipments
the requirements established in article 21 are not met and it does not constitute an infringement
serious".

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

Pursuant to the provisions of article 39.1.c) of the LSSI, minor infractions may
sanctioned with a fine of up to €30,000, establishing the criteria for its
graduation in article 40 of the same norm.

After the evidence obtained, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed
in accordance with the following aggravating criteria, established in the aforementioned art. 40
from the LSSI:

-

The existence of intent in sending commercial communications,
in this case, since 12/21/20, an expression to be interpreted as
equivalent to a degree of guilt according to the Judgment of the
National High Court of 11/12/07 relapse in Appeal no. 351/2006,
corresponding to the denounced entity the determination of a system of
Obtaining informed consent that is in accordance with the mandate of the LSSI.

According to this criterion and according to the result of the investigation, it is considered appropriate
when imposing a penalty of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros) on the party claimed, for the
infringement of article 21 of the LSSI.

IV- Sanction.

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in the present case, with respect to the
infractions committed by the claimed entity allows a total sanction of
4,000 euros, (four thousand euros): 2,000 euros for violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD and
2,000 euros for violation of article 21 of the LSSI.

In accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
data protection,

RESOLVE

FIRST: IMPOSE the entity, MAX2PROTECT, S.L. with CIF: B88606355, holder
from the website https://www.amonmed.es/ and email: testcovid@amonme-
d.es, for the infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD, a penalty of 2,000 euros (two thousand
euros), for the illicit treatment of the claimant's personal data and for the infringement
tion of article 21 of the LSSI, a penalty of 2,000 euros (two thousand euros), regarding
of sending commercial communications without the express consent of the recipient.
river.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the entity, MAX2PROTECT, S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that the sanction imposed must make it effective
Once this resolution is executed, in accordance with the provisions of art.
Article 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Administrative Procedure Co-
of the Public Administrations, within the voluntary payment period indicated in the
Article 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree
939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17,
bre, through its deposit in the restricted account Nº ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000,
opened in the name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at Banco CAIXA-
BANK, S.A. or otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure (article 48.6 of the LO-
PDGDD), and in accordance with the provisions of articles 112 and 123 of the Law
39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public tions, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for repossession.
petition before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
one month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and in the section
do 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating
the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
fervent legal text.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of Law 39/2015,
of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
public authorities, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the city
tada Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
certifying the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. Yes
the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
nistrative within two months from the day following the notification of the pre-
This resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

