Case number: NAIH / 2020/3479 /
Administrator: […]

Subject: Decision granting the application
DECISION

The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) […]
to the applicant (hereinafter: the Applicant) […] (hereinafter: the Applicant) a
Violation of the applicant's right to rectify his personal data and unsolicited newsletters
following an application lodged on 16 April 2020,
in which case the Authority has taken a decision on the Applicant
grant its request, and

I. finds that the Applicant has violated the Applicant's natural persons a
protection of personal data and the protection of such data
and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
the right of rectification under Article 16 of the Regulation (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation) and
at the same time, the Authority finds of its own motion that it has infringed the general rule
the principle of accuracy under Article 5 (1) (d) of the Data Protection Regulation.
Due to the above violation, the Authority will inform the Applicant that another data protection violation
in determining the legal consequences of the present infringement as a precedent
will be given greater weight, he warns.
PERFORMANCE
II. In view of the fact that the administrative time limit has been exceeded, the Authority
HUF 10,000, ie ten thousand forints, according to the choice of the Applicant to be indicated in writing -
pay by bank transfer or postal order.

***

There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification
within 30 days of the application to the Metropolitan Court in an administrative lawsuit
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, 1 which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. Those who do not benefit from full personal exemption
The fee for the administrative lawsuit is HUF 30,000, and the lawsuit is subject to the right to record material fees. The Capital
Legal proceedings are mandatory in proceedings before the General Court.
A II. There is no place for an independent appeal against the order under point 1, only on the merits of the case
may be challenged in an appeal against a decision taken.

The administrative lawsuit is initiated using the form NAIH_K01: Form NAIH_K01 (16/09/2019) The form is the general
can be filled in using a form filling program (ÁNYK program).
1

1

EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Procedure and clarification of the facts
The Applicant submitted an application to the Applicant on 20 February 2020 in which
complained that he had rewritten his e-mail address several days before the submission of the
operated Internet subscriber interface, after which continued to receive mail in the old e-mail
address.
The Applicant sent on February 21, 2020, referring to the Applicant's notification
In its reply, it provided information that it had changed its previous e-mail address in its system
To the e-mail address provided by the applicant. The Applicant nevertheless continues - March 2020
Also on March 16 and 20, 2020 - received a newsletter from the Applicant to the previous e-mail address.
In view of all the above, the Applicant requested in its application of 16 April 2020 a
Authority, and at the same time the National Media and Communications Authority, to
on the basis of your application, initiate proceedings against the Applicant for rectification of your personal data
infringement and the receipt of unsolicited newsletters.
Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. law
(hereinafter: the Information Act) the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1)
before the Authority at the request of the data protection authority
proceedings have been initiated.
Following a call for rectification by the Authority, the Applicant arrived on 5 June 2020
In its submission, it stated that between 1 January 2020 and 19 February 2020
changed his e-mail address on the Applicant's online subscription interface during the period and submitted
that the "Confirm" message in the "Confirm New Email Address - Reminder" email
clicked the button to arrive in your inbox on February 21, 2020.
In its order to initiate the data protection authority procedure, the Authority notified the Applicant
and called for a statement and disclosure in order to clarify the facts.
Based on the Applicant's statement, the Applicant initiated the e-mail on February 16, 2020
address change on the Applicant's online subscriber interface. The Applicant submitted that in such a case
the e-mail validating the new e-mail address specified by the customer initiating the change
will be sent in order for the Applicant to verify the email address provided
correctness. After clicking on the confirmation, the Applicant will be automatically rewritten
e-mail address in their systems.
The Applicant stated that the Applicant on 16 February 2020 and the reminder
The Applicant also failed to re-send the confirmation on 21 February 2020
to send, so subject to no modification, the Applicant's old e-mail
the newsletter received by the Applicant in his complaint dated 20 February 2020.
The Applicant submitted that in view of the contents of the Applicant's complaint, the Applicant
on 21 February 2020, his employee manually changed the Applicant's e-mail address, which
however, due to an administrative error, the so-called campaign management system
so that the Applicant again received newsletters to his old e-mail address.
2

The Applicant stated that the Authority had received an order for clarification of the facts
after 8 July 2020, the so-called campaign management system also modified the
Applicant's email address, so no later newsletters will be sent to the old email address.
In its order, the Authority invited the Applicant to make a further statement, to which the Applicant
its reply was received by the Authority on 5 August 2020.
The Applicant emphasized that validation is necessary to protect customers because
so that no third party modification can be made on behalf of the subscriber to the subscriber's knowledge
without.
The Applicant stated that the confirmation made by the Applicant on 21 February 2020
he cannot prove his absence (absence), given that for an event that did not happen
related logfile is not and cannot be made available to the Applicant.
II. Applicable law
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, for the processing of data in the present case
the general data protection regulation applies.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2), the general data protection decree is indicated therein
shall apply with the additions provided for in
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data,
and the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
monitoring and facilitating the enforcement of personal data within the European Union
facilitating the free movement of
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2a) of the General Data Protection Decree on Supervision
the tasks and powers established for the authority under the jurisdiction of Hungary
as defined in the General Data Protection Regulation and this Act
according to the Authority.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (3) (b), within the scope of its responsibilities under Section 38 (2) and (2a)
as defined in this Act, in particular at the request of the data subject and ex officio data protection
official procedure.
Infotv. Enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data pursuant to Section 60 (1)
the Authority shall, upon request, initiate an official data protection procedure and of its own motion
initiate proceedings against the data protection authority. The data protection authority procedure is general
CL of 2016 on administrative order. (hereinafter: Ákr.)
apply with the additions specified in the Information Act and the general data protection regulation
with the derogations provided for in
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (2): “To initiate official data protection proceedings
Article 77 (1) and Article 22 (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
may be submitted in the case specified in
Under Article 77 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, “other administrative or
without prejudice to judicial remedies, any person concerned shall have the right to lodge a complaint with a
3

supervisory authority, in particular where he has his habitual residence, place of employment or
in the Member State of the alleged infringement, if it considers that the
the processing of personal data infringes this Regulation. "
Article 5 (1) (d) of the General Data Protection Regulation states: “Personal data shall:
[…]
(d) be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable measures must be taken
in order to ensure that personal data are inaccurate for the purposes of data processing
deleted or corrected immediately ("accuracy") ".
Under Article 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject has the right to
the data controller shall correct the inaccurate personal data without undue delay
data. Taking into account the purpose of the data processing, the data subject has the right to request the incomplete data
supplementing personal data, inter alia by means of a supplementary declaration.
According to Article 12 (1) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation: ‘1. The controller shall
take measures to ensure the processing of personal data by the data subject
all the relevant information referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and Articles 15 to 22. and Article 34
each piece of information in a concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible form, in a clear manner
and provide any information addressed to children, in particular, in plain language
in the case of. The information shall be provided in writing or otherwise, including, where appropriate, by electronic means
must also be provided. Oral information may be provided at the request of the data subject, provided otherwise
the identity of the data subject has been established.
2. The controller shall facilitate the processing of the data subject in accordance with Articles 15 to 22. exercise of their rights under this Article. Article 11 (2)
In the cases referred to in paragraph 15, the controller shall to exercise their rights under this Article
may not refuse to comply with his request unless he proves that the person concerned
unable to identify.
3. The controller shall, without undue delay, but in any case upon receipt of the request,
shall inform the data subject within one month of the following an application under Article
measures. If necessary, taking into account the complexity of the application and the requests
this period may be extended by a further two months. On the extension of the deadline
the controller shall indicate the reasons for the delay from the receipt of the request
inform the data subject within one month. If the application was submitted by electronic means, the
information shall, as far as possible, be provided by electronic means, unless otherwise specified by the data subject
asks.
If the controller does not act on the data subject 's request without delay, but
shall inform the data subject no later than one month after receipt of the request
the reasons for not taking action and the fact that the person concerned may lodge a complaint with one of the
supervisory authority and may exercise its right to a judicial remedy. 5. In accordance with Articles 13 and 14
information and Articles 15 to 22. The information and action provided for in Articles 31 and 34 shall be provided free of charge
to assure. If the data subject's request is clearly unfounded or - particularly repetitive
excessive, the controller shall provide the information or information requested
or for the administrative costs of taking the requested action: (a) a reasonable fee
or (b) refuse to act on the application. The application
the burden of proving that it is manifestly unfounded or excessive is on the controller. (6) A 11.
without prejudice to Articles 15 to 21, if the controller has reasonable doubts in accordance with Article
the identity of the natural person submitting the application
may request the information necessary to confirm his identity. "

4

According to Article 23 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “The data controller or
Union or Member State law applicable to the processor may be limited by legislative measures
a 12-22. Articles 12 and 34 and Articles 12 to 22. with the rights set out in Article
the rights and obligations set out in Article 5 in
obligations if the restriction respects fundamental rights and freedoms
necessary and proportionate measure to protect the following
in a democratic society:
(a) national security;
b) national defense;
(c) public security;
(d) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses; or
enforcement of criminal sanctions, including against threats to public security
protection and prevention of these dangers;
(e) other important general interest objectives of general interest of the Union or of a Member State, in particular:
Important economic or financial interests of the Union or of a Member State, including monetary,
budgetary and fiscal issues, public health and social security;
(f) protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings;
g) in the case of regulated professions, the prevention, investigation and detection of ethical violations
and conducting related procedures;
(h) in the cases referred to in points (a) to (e) and (g), even occasionally,
control, inspection or regulatory activity related to the provision of
(i) the protection of the data subject or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others;
(j) enforcement of civil claims. "
According to Article 58 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation: “The supervisory authority shall be corrective
acting under the authority of:
(a) warn the controller or processor that certain data processing operations are planned
its activities are likely to infringe the provisions of this Regulation;
(b) reprimands the controller or the processor if he or she is acting in a data-processing capacity
has infringed the provisions of this Regulation;
(c) instruct the controller or processor to comply with this Regulation
the exercise of his rights under this Regulation;
(d) instruct the controller or processor to carry out its data processing operations, where applicable
in a specified manner and within a specified period, bring this Regulation into line
with its provisions;
(e) instruct the controller to inform the data subject of the data protection incident;
(f) temporarily or permanently restrict the processing, including the prohibition of the processing;
(g) order personal data in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 respectively
rectification or erasure of data and restrictions on data processing, as well as Article 17 (2)
shall notify the addressees with whom it is addressed in accordance with paragraph 1 and Article 19
or with whom personal data have been communicated;
(h) withdraw the certificate or instruct the certification body in accordance with Articles 42 and 43
revoke a duly issued certificate or instruct the certification body not to grant it
issue the certificate if the conditions for certification are not or are no longer met;
(i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with Article 83, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in this paragraph; and
(j) order the flow of data to a recipient in a third country or to an international organization
suspension. "

5

Under Article 83 (2), (5) and (7) of the General Data Protection Regulation:
administrative fines in accordance with Article 58 (2) (a) to (h), depending on the circumstances of the case.
and (j) shall be imposed in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in When deciding that
whether it is necessary to impose an administrative fine or the amount of the administrative fine
In each case, due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the processing in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by the infringement;
the extent of the damage they have suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
and the technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Article 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) the supervisory authority to remedy the breach and the possible negative effects of the breach
the degree of cooperation to alleviate
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor has reported the breach and, if so, what
in detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, in the same
one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2) has been ordered orally
compliance with revolving measures;
(j) whether the controller or processor has kept itself approved in accordance with Article 40
codes of conduct or approved certification mechanisms in accordance with Article 42;
and
(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case, such as:
financial gain or avoidance as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
loss.
[…]
5. Infringements of the following provisions, in accordance with paragraph 2, shall be imposed no later than 20
An administrative fine of EUR 000 000 or, in the case of undertakings, the previous financial penalty
up to a maximum of 4% of the total annual world market turnover for the year, provided that the
the higher of the two shall be charged:
(a) the principles of data processing, including the conditions for consent, in accordance with Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;
appropriately;
(b) the rights of data subjects under Articles 12 to 22. in accordance with Article
(c) the transfer of personal data to a recipient in a third country or to an international organization
transmission in accordance with Articles 44 to 49. in accordance with Article
d) the IX. obligations under the law of the Member States adopted pursuant to this Chapter;
(e) the instructions of the supervisory authority pursuant to Article 58 (2) and the processing of data
temporary or permanent restriction of the flow of data
non-compliance with the request or access in breach of Article 58 (1)
failure to provide.
[…]
7. Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the supervisory authorities under Article 58 (2),
each Member State may lay down rules on the
whether it may be imposed on a public authority or other body performing a public function
administrative fine and, if so, the amount. "
6

Infotv. 75 / A. §: The Authority is set out in Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation
exercise its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by:
legislation on the processing of personal data or binding European Union law
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
by alerting the controller or processor.
Infotv. According to Section 61 (4) (b): “The amount of the fine is from one hundred thousand to twenty million forints
may be extended if the fine imposed in a decision taken in an official data protection procedure
budgetary body under Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in the case of a fine imposed. "
ARC. Decision
In its application, the Applicant requested the Authority to establish that the Applicant
e-mail address has violated his right of rectification under Article 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation
during the change.
Regarding how to provide information on the correction of personal data
the obligations of the controller are detailed in Article 12 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
It was not possible to prove that fact in a credible manner in the present proceedings - and
The Authority has not identified any other means by which it can be optimally clarified that a
Whether or not the applicant clicked on the “confirm” button on 21 February 2020, or
on the same day, the Applicant’s employee manually corrected the Applicant’s email
address. However, it can be stated that the Applicant alone before 20 February 2020
The legal declaration communicated by the applicant to the Applicant on the Applicant's interface shall not be considered a data subject
as an application, as in that case it was carried out by only one Applicant
it was an amendment to the data and not a request for correction of the inaccuracy of the data. So the
The applicant's only complaint to the Applicant, submitted on 20 February 2020, was deemed to be
as a request for rectification under Article 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation
without undue delay but within one month at the latest.
However, despite the fact that the Applicant had lawfully amended the
In view of the applicant's complaint lodged on 20 February 2020, the e-mail address, the so-called campaign
illegally in the management system on 8 July 2020 only as a result of the present proceedings
corrected the Applicant's email address.
Based on all of the above, given that the Applicant has corrected the Applicant’s email address
has not complied with its request of 20 February 2020, the Authority finds that
The applicant infringed Article 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation. However, given that
that the Applicant has corrected the Applicant's e-mail address as a result of the present proceedings, further
no measure is required. Also given that the rights of the data subject
are closely linked to data protection principles, the Authority concludes of its own motion that
The Applicant violated the fact that the Applicant did not handle the data of the exact e-mail address
the principle of accuracy under Article 5 (1) (d) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
The Authority finds, as an infringement related to the above infringement, that at the same time the
handled personal data in connection with the sending of the newsletter without legal basis, as two newsletters
7

also sent (March 16, 2020 and March 20, 2020) after on February 21, 2020 about it
informed the Applicant that he had corrected his e-mail address.
The Ákr. According to § 51 (b), if the authority exceeds the administrative deadline - and
there was no place to make a decision - equivalent to a fee or charge for conducting the proceedings
in the absence of this, he shall pay ten thousand forints to the applicant client, who shall be released from the
from the payment of procedural costs. Consequently, the Authority shall take a decision in accordance with the operative part
brought.
IV.3. Legal consequences
The Authority examined whether it was justified to impose a data protection fine on the Applicant.
In this context, the Authority complies with Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation and Infotv. 75 / A. §A considered all the circumstances of the case and found that in the present proceedings
in the case of detected infringements, the warning is a proportionate, dissuasive sanction and therefore a fine
is not required.
The Authority shall take each measure
has decided, in the light of:

when necessary

the

below

criteria systems

-

the gravity of the infringement is low, also taking into account the fact that it has been established
the infringements are closely linked and the damage suffered has not occurred
in proceedings [Article 83 (2) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation];

-

the breach is the result of the Applicant 's negligent conduct [general data protection
Article 83 (2) (b) of the Regulation]

-

the Authority condemned the Applicant in NAIH / 2020/2758/4. In its decision no
due to a breach of the General Data Protection Regulation, however, NAIH / 2020/2758. number
The findings made in the course of the proceedings cannot be regarded as relevant in the present case [General
Article 83 (2) (e) of the Data Protection Regulation];

-

the personal data (email address) affected by the breach does not qualify as special data
[Article 83 (2) (g) of the General Data Protection Regulation]

-

the Applicant as soon as it becomes aware that the Applicant is not a valid e-mail
records its address, provided for its correction [General Data Protection Regulation
Article 83 (2) (k)].

Based on the above, the Authority has decided in accordance with the operative part.
V. Other issues
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.
The present decision of the Authority is based on Art. 80-81. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 61 (1). The decision is
Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final upon its communication. The Ákr. Section 112 and Section 116 (1)
and (4) (d) and § 114 (1)
there is a right of appeal through an administrative lawsuit.

8

***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3) a)
The General Court has exclusive jurisdiction under point (aa) of A Kp. Section 27 (1)
In a dispute in which the tribunal has exclusive jurisdiction, the
representation is mandatory. A Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), the filing of the application a
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of an administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with regard to this, Act CXXX of 2016 on Civil Procedure.
applicable in accordance with Section 604 of the Act, electronic administration and trust services
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b) of the Act
his legal representative is obliged to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). THE
Information on the possibility of requesting a hearing is provided in the CM. Section 77 (1) - (2)
based on. The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees. law
(hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). From the advance payment of the fee is
Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) shall release the party instituting the proceedings.
Budapest, November 18, 2020
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

9

