




Press release from the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Mecklenburg-West Pomerania
Expertise explained in practice: Commentary on the State Data Protection Act M-V published










View Details



                      Commentary on the State Data Protection Act M-V



No.20220902
|
09/02/2022
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

With their legal expertise, the employees of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information M-V (LfDI M-V) have explained the regulations of the State Data Protection Act Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania in a practical commentary. "The comment provides assistance with data protection issues relating to the state data protection law of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania," says state data protection officer Heinz Müller.
Laws often raise numerous legal questions. The same has been the case since the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in 2018 and the federal and state data protection laws adapted to it. The interaction with the regulations is not always easy to understand, and a number of priority issues are controversial. The first commentary on the Data Protection Act in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania (HK-DSG M-V) provides the necessary orientation by making reference to European law (DS-GVO and JI-RL), clarifying the relationship to federal law (BDSG), a precise explanation of the offers state data protection law and works out the leeway that the GDPR leaves to the operative state regulations. In addition, the editorial team of the LfDI M-V places the present first case law of the European Court of Justice in the national context. "I would like to thank the employees of my office for writing such a committed comment on the state data protection law M-V. This will be of great help to all specialist departments,” concludes Heinz Müller.
Complex problems that arise, for example, as a result of ongoing digitization, are analyzed first-hand. The high level of expertise of the authors guarantees the focus on practical solutions. The comment is the ideal tool for everyone who works with state data protection law in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania: universities, municipalities, courts, lawyers, companies, associations and their data protection and IT officers. The work was published by Nomos Verlag under the expertise of: Lydia Kampf; Constanze Oehlrich, MdL M-V; RiBayVerfGH Prof. Dr. Dirk Heckman; Thomas Brueckmann; Christian von Niessen; Rene Weichelt and Susanne Wolters.









                  Back to overview









