DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENALTY NOTICE 

To:  Grocery Delivery E-Services UK Limited T/A HelloFresh. 

Of:    The Fresh Farm, 60 Worship Street, London, EC2A 2EZ 

1.

The Information Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) has decided to

issue Grocery Delivery E-Services UK Limited T/A HelloFresh

(“HelloFresh”) with a monetary penalty under section 55A of the Data

Protection Act 1998 (“DPA”). The penalty is in relation to a serious

contravention of Regulation 22 of the Privacy and Electronic

Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003 (“PECR”).

2.

This notice explains the Commissioner’s decision.

Legal framework 

3.

HelloFresh, whose registered office address is given above (Companies

House Registration Number: 07893709 is the organisation stated in

this notice to have transmitted unsolicited communications by means

of electronic mail to individual subscribers for the purposes of direct

marketing contrary to regulation 22 of PECR.

4.

Regulation 22 of PECR states:

1 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

“(1)  This  regulation  applies  to  the  transmission  of  unsolicited 

communications  by  means  of  electronic  mail  to 

individual 

subscribers. 

(2)   Except in the circumstances referred to in paragraph (3), a person 

shall neither transmit, nor instigate the transmission of, unsolicited 

communications for the purposes of direct marketing by means of 

electronic  mail  unless  the  recipient  of  the  electronic  mail  has 

previously notified the sender that he consents for the time being 

to such communications being sent by, or at the instigation of, the 

sender.  

(3)   A  person  may  send  or  instigate  the  sending  of  electronic  mail  for 

the purposes of direct marketing where—  

(a) that person has obtained the contact details of the recipient 

of that electronic mail in the course of the sale or 

negotiations for the sale of a product or service to that 

recipient; 

(b) the direct marketing is in respect of that person’s similar 

products and services only; and 

(c)  the recipient has been given a simple means of refusing 

(free of charge except for the costs of the transmission of 

the refusal) the use of his contact details for the purposes 

of such direct marketing, at the time that the details were 

initially collected, and, where he did not initially refuse the 

use of the details, at the time of each subsequent 

communication. 

(4)   A subscriber shall not permit his line to be used in contravention of 

paragraph (2).” 

 

 

2 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
5. 

Section 122(5) of the Data Protection Act 2018 “DPA18” defines direct 

marketing as “the communication (by whatever means) of advertising 

or marketing material which is directed to particular individuals”. This 

definition also applies for the purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) 

PECR and paragraphs 430 & 432(6) to Schedule 19 of the DPA18). 

 
6. 

From 1 January 2021, consent in PECR has been defined by reference 

to the concept of consent in the UK GDPR as defined in section 3(10) of 

the DPA 2018[1]: see regulation 2(1) of PECR, as amended by Part 3 of 

Schedule 3, paragraph 44 of The Data Protection, Privacy and 

Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 

2019/419. Article 4(11) of the UK GDPR sets out the following 

definition: “‘consent’ of the data subject means any freely given, 

specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's 

wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative 

action, signifies agreement to the processing of personal data relating 

to him or her”. 

 

7. 

Recital 32 of the [UK] GDPR materially states that “When the processing 

has multiple purposes, consent should be given for all of them”. Recital 

42 materially provides that “For consent to be informed, the data subject 

should  be  aware  at  least  of  the  identity  of  the  controller”.  Recital  43 

materially states that “Consent is presumed not to be freely given if it 

does not allow separate consent to be given to different personal data 

processing operations despite it being appropriate in the individual case”. 

 

8. 

“Individual” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a living individual 

and includes an unincorporated body of such individuals”. 

 

                                                 
[1] The UK GDPR is therein defined as Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
April  2016  (“GDPR”)  as  it  forms  part  of  the  law  of  England  and  Wales,  Scotland  and  Northern  Ireland  by  virtue 
of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018.  

 

3 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
9. 

A “subscriber” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “a person who is 

a party to a contract with a provider of public electronic 

communications services for the supply of such services”. 

 
“Electronic mail” is defined in regulation 2(1) of PECR as “any text, 

10. 

voice, sound or image message sent over a public electronic 

communications network which can be stored in the network or in the 

recipient’s terminal equipment until it is collected by the recipient and 

includes messages sent using a short message service”. 

 

11.  Section 55A of the DPA (as applied to PECR cases by Schedule 1 to 

PECR, as variously amended) states:  

 

“(1)  The Commissioner may serve a person with a monetary penalty if 

the Commissioner is satisfied that –  

(a) there has been a serious contravention of the requirements 

of the  Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC 

Directive) Regulations 2003 by the person, 

(b) subsection (2) or (3) applies. 

(2)  This subsection applies if the contravention was deliberate. 

(3)  This subsection applies if the person – 

(a) knew or ought to have known that there was a risk that the 

contravention would occur, but 

(b) failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the 

contravention.” 

 

12.  The Commissioner has issued statutory guidance under section 55C (1) 

of the DPA about the issuing of monetary penalties that has been 

published on the ICO’s website. The Data Protection (Monetary 

Penalties) (Maximum Penalty and Notices) Regulations 2010 prescribe 

 

4 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

that the amount of any penalty determined by the Commissioner must 

not exceed £500,000.  

 

13.  PECR were enacted to protect the individual’s fundamental right to 

privacy in the electronic communications sector. PECR were 

subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner will 

interpret PECR in a way which is consistent with the Regulations’ 

overall aim of ensuring high levels of protection for individuals’ privacy 

rights. 

  

14.  The provisions of the DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding the introduction of the DPA18: see paragraph 58(1) of 

Schedule 20 to the DPA18. 

 

Background to the case 

 

15.  HelloFresh is an online meal order business operating within the food 

and beverage sector. HelloFresh delivers ingredients and recipes in 

food boxes to its customers, which the customer can then use to 

prepare meals. HelloFresh provides its meal delivery services on a 

subscription plan basis. 

 

16.  The Commissioner’s investigation into HelloFresh was launched 

following a review of data from the UK’s Spam Reporting Service, 

7726. 

 

17.  Mobile users can report the receipt of unsolicited marketing text 

messages to the Mobile UK’s Spam Reporting Service by forwarding the 

message to 7726 (spelling out “SPAM”). Mobile UK is an organisation 

that represents the interests of mobile operators in the UK. The 

Commissioner is provided with access to the data on complaints made 

 

5 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

to the 7726 service and this data is used to ascertain organisations in 

breach of PECR. 

 

18.  Between 27 September 2021 and 23 February 2022, 15,221 

complaints were logged with the 7726 service in relation to messages 

from HelloFresh. 

 

19.  Furthermore, between 28 September 2021 and 6 November 2021, the 

ICO online reporting tool received 14 complaints about unsolicited SMS 

messages from HelloFresh. 

 

20.  Between 21 October 2021 and 24 May 2022, the ICO received three 

complaints about direct marketing emails sent by HelloFresh. 

 

21.  Complainant's comments about the messages they received from 

HelloFresh are included below.  

 
  "Annoying - how are these mobile numbers contacting me?? dont 

[sic] know how to stop them I [sic] can only block them. I used 

HelloFresh once, ages ago, but this is from a UK mobile number...?"  

 

  "I had previously replied STOP to this number over a year ago. I 

received a confirmation that I had opted out of promotional SMS, 

and have had no relationship with the company since then."  

 

  "It arrived at unsociable hours after previous attempts to get the 

company to stop contacting me disturbing sleep'" 

 

  “I had previously bought from this company and ensured that I did 

not consent to marketing material. I was not happy with their 

service so cancelled my subscription. Recently (last 1-2 months) I 

 

6 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

have started regularly receiving unsolicited advertising emails from 

the company, and now they are sending unsolicited text messages. 

It seems to be a growing trend – companies that I have previously 

bought from and had no problems with in the past suddenly start 

sending large numbers of advertising emails and text messages to 

past customers.” 

 

  “I’ve asked this company to stop marketing in the past but they still 

send stuff.” 

 

  “I have explicitly withdrawn consent to marketing previously, so  

am annoyed that the company has contacted me.” 

 
22.  On 10 March 2022, the Commissioner sent an initial investigation letter 

and a spreadsheet of complaints to HelloFresh. The letter requested 

information about HelloFresh’s marketing activities between the period 

of 23 August 2021 and 23 February 2022. It also requested information 

about how HelloFresh obtained consent from individuals to send them 

direct marketing communications. 

 

23.  HelloFresh replied to the initial investigation letter on 30 March 2022. 

In its response, HelloFresh stated that it had consent to contact the 

individuals who had complained to the 7726 service. It also explained 

that it sends SMS based direct marketing to two groups of data 

subjects. The first group is “active UK customers”, which it defined as 

“customers who have an active, or paused subscription.” The second 

group is “reactivation customers”, these are former customers that 

have cancelled their subscription within the last 24 months but have 

consented to receive SMS based marketing messages from HelloFresh. 

 

 

7 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
24.  HelloFresh explained that before sending marketing messages, it 

checked the target telephone number against the relevant customer’s 

communication settings for their account. Once screening was 

completed, a third-party provider sent the SMS message on behalf of 

HelloFresh. HelloFresh stated that it removed individuals from its 

marketing list within 30 days of them making a removal request. 

 

25.  HelloFresh confirmed that between 23 August 2021 and 23 February 

2022, it sent 1,939,487 SMS messages to active and reactivation 

customers. Of these, 1,113,734 messages were delivered. 

 

26.  As part of its 30 March 2022 response to the Commissioner’s 

questions, HelloFresh provided various information and documents. 

This included a tick box with the following consent statement next to it: 

 

“Yes, I’d like to receive sample gifts (including alcohol) and other 

offers, competitions and news via email. By ticking this box I 

confirm I am over 18 years old”. 

 

27.  Another screenshot provided by HelloFresh showed that users could 

update their communication preferences in the app. However, the 

preference settings did not allow users to set their marketing 

preferences by reference to the communication channel used for direct 

marketing (e.g. phone, text or email). 

 

28.  There was no information in the screenshots that informed a customer 

about the length of time that they could receive marketing 

communications from HelloFresh after cancelling their subscription. 

 

29.  As part of its correspondence with the Commissioner, HelloFresh 

provided various other supporting documents including a calling script 

for marketing calls made by HelloFresh, a training document in respect 

 

8 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
of telephone marketing, a data protection policy, an information 

security policy and HelloFresh's ICO registration certificate. 

 

30.  HelloFresh also provided its analysis of the complaints to the 7726 

service. HelloFresh believed that of the 15,221 complaints to the 7726 

service, only 8,729 were valid complaints about marketing. The 

Commissioner agrees with this assessment. 

 
In further correspondence with the Commissioner, HelloFresh 

31. 

confirmed that between 23 August 2021 and 23 February 2022, it sent 

79,940,241 marketing emails of which 79,779,279 were received by 

recipients. 

 

32.  The Commissioner has made the above findings of fact on the 

balance of probabilities. 

 

33.  The Commissioner has considered whether those facts constitute 

a contravention of regulation 22 of PECR by HelloFresh and, if so, 

whether the conditions of section 55A DPA are satisfied.  

 

The contravention 

 

34.  The Commissioner finds that HelloFresh contravened regulation 22 of 

PECR.  

 

35.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 

 

36.  The Commissioner finds that between 23 August 2021 and 23 February 

2022 there were 80,893,013 direct marketing messages, comprised of 

79,779,279 emails and 1,113,734 SMS messages, received by 

subscribers. The Commissioner finds that HelloFresh transmitted those 

direct marketing messages, contrary to regulation 22 of PECR. 

 

9 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
 
37.  HelloFresh, as the sender of the direct marketing, is required to ensure 

that it is acting in compliance with the requirements of regulation 22 of 

PECR, and to ensure that valid consent to send those messages had 

been acquired.  

 

38.  HelloFresh is required to demonstrate that the consent is freely given, 

specific, informed, and contains an unambiguous indication from the 

individual via an affirmative action. 

 
39.  Of particular relevance in this case, is the fact that for consent to be 

valid it is required to be “specific” as to the type of marketing 

communication to be received, and the organisation, or specific type of 

organisation, that will be sending it.  

 

40. 

In addition, consent will not be “informed” if individuals do not 

understand what they are consenting to. Organisations should 

therefore always ensure that the language used is clear, easy to 

understand, and not hidden away in a privacy policy or small print.  

 

41.  The consent statement relied on by HelloFresh for its email and SMS 

direct marketing was as described in paragraph 26. It is the 

Commissioner's finding that this statement does not satisfy the 

requirement for consent to be "specific" and "informed" because: 

 
  the consent statement did not mention that SMS would be used as 

a channel for direct marketing purposes; 

 

  the consent statement was not clear (and was bundled with other 

aspects) as it combined an age confirmation statement and consent 

to receive free samples with a consent for direct marketing via 

email; and 

 

10 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

  customers were not given sufficient information to make them 

aware that they could receive direct marketing messages up to 24 

months after they had cancelled their subscription with HelloFresh. 

 

42. 

It is the Commissioner's view that it would not be in the reasonable 

expectations of former customers that they would receive direct 

marketing up to 24 months after ending their subscription contract with 

HelloFresh.  

 

43.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied from the evidence he has seen 

that HelloFresh did not have the necessary valid consent for the 

80,893,013 direct marketing messages received by subscribers.  

 

44.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the conditions 

under section 55A DPA 1998 are met. 

 

Seriousness of the contravention 

 

45.  The Commissioner is satisfied that the contravention identified 

above was serious. This is because between 23 August 2021 and 23 

February 2022, a confirmed total of 80,893,013 direct marketing 

messages were sent by HelloFresh. These messages contained direct 

marketing material for which subscribers had not provided valid 

consent.  

 

46.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (a) from 

section 55A(1) DPA is met.  

 

Deliberate or negligent contraventions 

 

 

11 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
47.  The Commissioner has considered whether the contravention identified 

above was deliberate. In the Commissioner’s view, in order to make a 

finding that a deliberate contravention has occurred, this would require 

that HelloFresh's actions, which constituted that contravention, to be 

deliberate actions (even if HelloFresh did not actually intend thereby to 

contravene PECR). 

 

48.  The Commissioner does not consider that HelloFresh deliberately set 

out to contravene PECR in this instance. 

 

49.  The Commissioner has gone on to consider whether the contravention 

identified above was negligent. This consideration comprises two 

elements: 

 

50.  Firstly, he has considered whether HelloFresh knew or ought 

reasonably to have known that there was a risk that these 

contraventions would occur. He is satisfied that this condition is met, 

as HelloFresh failed to exercise proper due care to avoid conducting 

unsolicited marketing, including evidence presented to the 

Commissioner indicating that HelloFresh had a misunderstanding of the 

relationship between PECR and the UK GDPR. 

 

51.  The Commissioner has published detailed guidance for those carrying 

out direct marketing explaining their legal obligations under PECR. This 

guidance gives clear advice regarding the requirements of consent for 

direct marketing and explains the circumstances under which 

organisations are able to carry out marketing over the phone, by text, 

by email, by post, or by fax. In particular it states that organisations 

can generally only send, or instigate, marketing messages to 

individuals if that person has specifically consented to receiving them. 

The Commissioner has also published detailed guidance on consent 

 

12 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
under the GDPR. In case organisations remain unclear on their 

obligations, the ICO operates a telephone helpline. ICO 

communications about previous enforcement action where businesses 

have not complied with PECR are also readily available. 

 
It is therefore reasonable to suppose that HelloFresh should have been 

52. 

aware of its responsibilities in this area. 

 
53.  Secondly, the Commissioner has gone on to consider whether 

HelloFresh failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the 

contraventions. Again, he is satisfied that this condition is met.  

 

54.  Reasonable steps in these circumstances may have included: 

 

 

 

  ensuring that the consent statements relied on for direct marketing 

met the requirements of the UK GDPR and had been reviewed 

against guidance from the Commissioner; 

 

  providing mechanisms that allow individuals to easily select the 

channels that they consent to receiving direct marketing through; 

 

  providing privacy notices to individuals that clearly explained how 

long they would continue to receive direct marketing for after 

cancelling their subscription (in addition to providing clear 

transparency information about the use of personal data for direct 

marketing and how individuals could exercise their rights in relation 

to direct marketing);  

 

  documenting internal policies, procedures and training that clearly 

demonstrated an organisational understanding of PECR 

requirements and the interplay with the UK GDPR. 

13 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
55. 

In the circumstances, the Commissioner is satisfied that HelloFresh 

failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the contraventions. 

 

56.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied that condition (b) from section 

55A (1) DPA is met. 

 

The Commissioner’s decision to issue a monetary penalty 

 

57.  The Commissioner notes there are no aggravating features in this case. 

 

58.  The Commissioner also acknowledges that HelloFresh has fully 

cooperated with the investigation, and has taken steps to improve its 

marketing practices and customer journey following this investigation. 

However, no other mitigating features have been identified in this case. 

 

59.  For the reasons explained above, the Commissioner is satisfied that the 

conditions from section 55A (1) DPA have been met in this case. He is 

also satisfied that the procedural rights under section 55B have been 

complied with. 

 

60.  The latter has included the issuing of a Notice of Intent, in which the 

Commissioner set out his preliminary thinking. In reaching his final 

view, the Commissioner has taken into account the representations 

made by HelloFresh on this matter. 

 

61.  The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to issue a monetary penalty 

in this case. 

 

62.  The Commissioner has considered whether, in the circumstances, he 

should exercise his discretion so as to issue a monetary penalty.   

 

 

14 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
63.  The Commissioner has considered the likely impact of a monetary 

penalty on HelloFresh. He has decided on the information that is 

available to him, that a penalty remains the appropriate course of 

action in the circumstances of this case.  

 

64.  The Commissioner’s underlying objective in imposing a monetary 

penalty notice is to promote compliance with PECR. The sending of 

unsolicited direct marketing messages is a matter of significant public 

concern. A monetary penalty in this case should act as a general 

encouragement towards compliance with the law, or at least as a 

deterrent against non-compliance, on the part of all persons running 

businesses currently engaging in these practices. The issuing of a 

monetary penalty will reinforce the need for businesses to ensure that 

they are only messaging those who specifically consent to receive 

direct marketing. 

 
In making his decision, the Commissioner has also had regard to the 

65. 

factors set out in s108(2)(b) of the Deregulation Act 2015; including: 

the nature and level of risks associated with non-compliance, including 

the risks to economic growth; the steps taken by the business to 

achieve compliance and reasons for its failure; the willingness and 

ability of the business to address non-compliance; the likely impact of 

the proposed intervention on the business, and the likely impact of the 

proposed intervention on the wider business community, both in terms 

of deterring non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate 

businesses. 

 

66.  For these reasons, the Commissioner has decided to issue a monetary 

penalty in this case. 

 
 
 
 

 

15 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

The amount of the penalty 
 

67.  Taking into account all of the above, the Commissioner has decided 

that a penalty in the sum of £140,000 (one hundred and forty 

thousand pounds) is reasonable and proportionate given the 

particular facts of the case and the underlying objective in imposing the 

penalty. 

 

Conclusion 

 

68.  The monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner’s office by 

BACS transfer or cheque by 13 February 2024 at the latest. The 

monetary penalty is not kept by the Commissioner but will be paid into 

the Consolidated Fund which is the Government’s general bank account 

at the Bank of England. 

 

69. 

If the Commissioner receives full payment of the monetary penalty by 

12 February 2024 the Commissioner will reduce the monetary 

penalty by 20% to £112,000 (one hundred and twelve thousand 

pounds). However, you should be aware that the early payment 

discount is not available if you decide to exercise your right of appeal.  

 

70.  There is a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 

against: 

 

(a) the imposition of the monetary penalty 

              and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified in the monetary penalty 

     notice. 

 

71.  Any notice of appeal should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days 

of the date of this monetary penalty notice.  

 

16 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

 

72. 

Information about appeals is set out in Annex 1. 

 

73.  The Commissioner will not take action to enforce a monetary penalty 

unless: 

 

  the period specified within the notice within which a monetary 

penalty must be paid has expired and all or any of the monetary 

penalty has not been paid; 

  all relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice and any 

variation of it have either been decided or withdrawn; and 

  the period for appealing against the monetary penalty and any 

variation of it has expired. 

74. 

In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the monetary penalty is 

recoverable by Order of the County Court or the High Court. In 

Scotland, the monetary penalty can be enforced in the same manner as 

an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution 

issued by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland.  

 

Dated the 11 day of January 2024 

 

Signed ………………………………………………. 

 

Andy Curry 
Head of Investigations 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
Wycliffe House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 5AF  

 

 

17 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               
ANNEX 1 

 

 

SECTION 55 A-E OF THE DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998  

 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

 

1. 

Section 55B(5) of the Data Protection Act 1998 gives any person 

upon whom a monetary penalty notice has been served a right of 

appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) (the ‘Tribunal’) 

against the notice. 

 

2. 

If you decide to appeal and if the Tribunal considers:- 

 

a) 

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 

accordance with the law; or 

 

b) 

to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of 

discretion by the Commissioner, that he ought to have exercised 

his discretion differently,  

 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 

could have been made by the Commissioner. In any other case the 

Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 

 

3. 

You may bring an appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the 

Tribunal at the following address: 

 

 

HM Courts & Tribunals Service 

                 General Regulatory Chamber 
 
                 PO Box 9300 
                 Leicester 
                 LE1 8DJ  
 

18 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

Telephone: 0203 936 8963 
Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

 
 
 

a) 

The notice of appeal should be sent so it is received by the 

Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the notice.  

 

b) 

If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not admit it 

unless the Tribunal has extended the time for complying with this 

rule. 

 

4. 

The notice of appeal should state:- 

 

a) 

your name and address/name and address of your 

representative (if any); 

 

b)      an address where documents may be sent or delivered to 

you; 

 

c)      the name and address of the Information Commissioner; 

 

d) 

details of the decision to which the proceedings relate; 

 

e) 

the result that you are seeking; 

 

f) 

 

the grounds on which you rely; 

g) 

you must provide with the notice of appeal a copy of the 

monetary penalty notice or variation notice; 

 

h) 

if you have exceeded the time limit mentioned above the 

notice of appeal must include a request for an extension of time 

 

19 

   
 
 
                                                                                                                               

and the reason why the notice of appeal was not provided in 

time. 

 

5. 

Before deciding whether or not to appeal you may wish to consult 

your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an appeal a party 

may conduct his case himself or may be represented by any person 

whom he may appoint for that purpose. 

 

6. 

The statutory provisions concerning appeals to the First-tier 

Tribunal (Information Rights) are contained in section 55B(5) of, and 

Schedule 6 to, the Data Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal Procedure 

(First-tier Tribunal) (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009 

(Statutory Instrument 2009 No. 1976 (L.20)). 

 

 

 

 

 

20 

