 

 
 
Roberta Metsola  
Member of the European Parliament 
 
Andrzej Halicki 
Member of the European Parliament 
 
By email only 

Dear Ms. Metsola, Dear Mr. Halicki, 

Brussels, 8 May 2020 

Ref: OUT2020-0041 

Thank you for your letters and for bringing this issue to the attention of the European Data Protection 
Board  (EDPB).  The  fact  that  data  of  Polish  citizens  was  sent  from  the  national  PESEL  (personal 
identification) database to the Polish Post by one of the ministries appears to require special attention. 
Due to the upcoming elections, the EDPB decided to handle this matter urgently. 

Taking  into  consideration  that  elections  constitute  the  cornerstone  of  every  democratic  society,  I 
would  like  to  reassure  you  that the  EDPB  dedicates  special  attention  to the  issue  of  processing of 
personal data for election purposes, as we already demonstrated during the preparation for the 2019 
European Parliament elections.1  

With respect to supervision over personal data processing, I would like to stress that the EDPB does 
not  have  the  same  competences,  tasks  and  powers  as  national  supervisory  authorities.  The 
assessment of alleged infringements of the GDPR, in the first instance, falls within the competence of 
the responsible and independent national supervisory authority.  

Data protection supervisory authorities are responsible for monitoring and, if necessary, enforcing the 
application of data protection principles in the context of elections and political campaigns, such as 
lawfulness, transparency, purpose limitation, proportionality and security, as well as the exercise of 
data subject rights. A judicial remedy should also always be available in accordance with articles 78 
and 79 GDPR.  

The EDPB underlines that according to the GDPR, personal data, such as names and addresses, and 
national identification numbers (such as the Polish PESEL ID), must be processed lawfully, fairly and in 
a transparent manner, for specified purposes only. Public authorities may disclose information about 
individuals included in electoral lists when this is specifically authorised by Member State law. I would 
like to underline that the disclosure of personal data – from one entity to another – always requires a 
legal basis in accordance with EU data protection laws. As previously indicated in the EDPB statement 
02/2019  on  political  campaigns,  political  parties  and  candidates  –  but  also  public  authorities, 
particularly those responsible for public registers – must stand ready to demonstrate how they have 

                                                           
1  Please  see 
https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/edpb/files/files/file1/edpb-2019-03-13-statement-on-elections_en.pdf 

the  EDPB  Statement  2/2019  on 

the  use  of  personal  data 

in 

the  course  of  political  campaigns 

 

1 

 

complied  with  data  protection  principles,  especially  the  principles  of  lawfulness,  fairness  and 
transparency. 

The EDPB would also like to underline that, where elections are conducted by the collection of postal 
votes, it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that specific safeguards are in place to maintain the 
secrecy and integrity of the personal data concerning political opinions.  

In addition, I would like to stress that in the context of data processing, there is a specific responsibility 
on public authorities, in particular those responsible for public registers. The EDPB encourages these 
data controllers to lead by example and process personal data in a manner, which is transparent and 
leaves  no  doubt  regarding,  among  others,  the  legal  basis  for  the  processing  operations,  including 
disclosure of data. 

We wish to reassure you that the EDPB will continue to pay special attention to the developments of 
personal  data  processing  in  connection  to  democratic  elections  and  remain  ready  to  support  all 
members of the EDPB, including the Polish Supervisory Authority, in such matters.  

 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

 

2 

