1/8

Procedure No.: PS/00334/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 07/30/2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directs against D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons in
that bases the claim are, in summary, the following: that on 06/21/2019 he had
knowledge through third parties that the defendant has proceeded to publish in his
WhatsApp status intimate photographs and conversation captures of who
subscribes and a third person from the same workplace, belonging to your
privacy being published without your knowledge or consent after having been
stolen from a pendrive that has disappeared.

Provides copies of the photographs that the respondent has made public through
of your WhatsApp account being known by third parties, attaching to some of
them denigrating and vexatious comments

SECOND: On 09/09/2019, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed against the defendant.

THIRD: On 10/04/2019, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.
FOURTH: Once the initiation agreement has been notified, the one claimed at the time of this
The resolution has not presented a written statement of allegations, for which reason the
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, which in section f)
establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the period established on the
content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.
FIFTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 07/30/2019 the claimant files a letter with the AEPD, stating
that on 06/21/2019 he had learned through third parties that the
claimed had proceeded to publish on his WhatsApp account intimate photographs and
captures of conversations of the undersigned and a third party from the same center of
work, being published without your knowledge or consent after being
stolen from a flash drive that had disappeared.
SECOND: Contained photographs published in the WhatsApp account of the
claimed in which the claimant appears together with third parties, accompanied by
hurtful and demeaning comments.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations, in its article 64 "Agreement of initiation in the
procedures of a sanctioning nature”, provides:

II

"1. The initiation agreement will be communicated to the instructor of the procedure, with
transfer of how many actions exist in this regard, and the interested parties will be notified,
understanding in any case by such the accused.

Likewise, the initiation will be communicated to the complainant when the rules

regulators of the procedure so provide.

2. The initiation agreement must contain at least:

a) Identification of the person or persons allegedly responsible.
b) The facts that motivate the initiation of the procedure, its possible
rating and sanctions that may apply, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.
c) Identification of the instructor and, where appropriate, Secretary of the procedure, with
express indication of the system of recusal of the same.
d) Competent body for the resolution of the procedure and regulation that
attribute such competence, indicating the possibility that the presumed

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

responsible can voluntarily acknowledge their responsibility, with the
effects provided for in article 85.
e) Provisional measures that have been agreed by the body
competent to initiate the sanctioning procedure, without prejudice to those that
may be adopted during the same in accordance with article 56.
f) Indication of the right to formulate allegations and to the hearing in the
procedure and the deadlines for its exercise, as well as an indication that, in
case of not doing
 
     allegations within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, this may be considered a resolution proposal
when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed.

3. Exceptionally, when at the time of issuing the initiation agreement
there are not sufficient elements for the initial qualification of the facts that motivate
the initiation of the procedure, the aforementioned qualification may be carried out in a phase
later by drawing up a List of Charges, which must be notified to
interested parties” (the underlined corresponds to the AEPD).

In application of the previous precept and taking into account that no
formulated allegations to the initial agreement, it is appropriate to resolve the initiated procedure.

In the present case, the defendant is accused of violating article 6, Lawfulness

of the treatment, of the RGPD that establishes:

III

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data

personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”

On the other hand, article 4 of the RGPD, Definitions, in its section 11, indicates

that:

“11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through
a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data that
concern him”.

Also article 6, Treatment based on the consent of the affected party,
of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), indicates
that:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

"1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679, consent of the affected party is understood to be any manifestation of will
free, specific, informed and unequivocal by which he accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

2. When the data processing is intended to be based on consent
of the affected party for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

The facts denounced are specified in the use without consent or
authorization of photographs and conversations contained in a flash drive stolen from the
claimant, having been published in the WhatsApp account of the claimed being
known by third parties, attaching to some of them comments
demeaning and humiliating.

The infraction attributed to the defendant is typified in the
article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, which considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, "with administrative fines of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

And in its article 72, it considers for prescription purposes, which are: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

(…)
b) The treatment of personal personal data without the concurrence of any of the
the conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

IV

It should be noted that data processing requires the existence of a database
legal that legitimizes it, such as the consent of the interested party for the treatment of their
personal information.

From the documentation provided, it is evident that the respondent has violated the
article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it has carried out an illicit treatment by making known to
third party personal data of the claimant contained in a flash drive, which was
stolen according to their statements, without their consent or authorization and with the
aggravating circumstance that comments are made at the bottom of some of the photographs
humiliating and degrading for the claimant.

The Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, in
similar assumptions has considered that when the owner of the data denies the
consent in the processing of your data corresponds the burden of proof to
who affirms its existence, and the data controller must collect and
keep the necessary documentation to prove the consent of the holder. A) Yes,
the SAN of 05/31/2006 (Rec. 539/2004), Fourth Law Basis.

It should be noted that respect for the principle of legality of the data requires that
accredited evidence that the owner of the data consented to the processing of the data of
personal character and display a reasonable diligence essential to prove
that end. Failure to act in this way would result in emptying the content of the principle of
legality.

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed,
observe the provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which
point out:

v

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances
of each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated
in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such case,
what extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its

Article 76, “Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the Regulation (EU)

2016/679 may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatments
of personal data.
c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the
commission of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process after the commission
of the infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) Affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a delegate for the protection of

h) The submission by the person in charge or person in charge, with
voluntary, to alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those
assumptions in which there are controversies between those and any
interested."

data.

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose in the present case for the infringement typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD of
which the defendant is held responsible, in an initial assessment, are estimated
concurrent the following factors:

The merely local scope of the treatment carried out by the claimed party.

Only one person has been affected by the offending conduct.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

The way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in

the extent to which this has been through the claim of the affected party.

Although there is no evidence that the defendant has acted maliciously,
intentionality and gross negligence are observed in his actions, as evidenced by
the attached comments containing some of the photographs.

The absence of a link between the offender's activity and the performance of

processing of personal data.

The respondent is a natural person.

For all these reasons, an amount of the penalty is established for violation of the

article 6.1.a) of the RGPD of 10,000 euros.

Therefore, as stated,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE D. B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article
6.1.a) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the same Regulation and qualified
as a very serious infringement for prescription purposes in article 72.1.b) of the
LOPDGDD, a fine of €10,000 (ten thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to D.B.B.B..

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise,
it will be collected during the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

