1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00190/2021

RESOLUTION
 

 OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 19, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against Vodafone Spain,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 which is transcribed below:
<<
Procedure no.: PS/00190/2021

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated December 15,
2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
later, the claimed one).

The claimant states that there has been improper access by a third party to her
Vodafone customer account, modifying your personal data (email), rates
and contracting services using your personal data without your consent.

And, among other things, provide the following documentation:

Request for access to the voice recordings of the aforementioned operations, provides
acknowledgment of receipt of August 26, 2020.

Complaint filed with the notional police on August 7, 2020.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed on February 4, 2021, in accordance with the provisions of
Article 65.4 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Data Protection
Personal and guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), in the
actions with reference E/00861/2021. Notification is done electronically,
and figure delivered on February 8, 2021.

THIRD: In accordance with the provisions of article 65.2 of the Organic Law
3/2018, on Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), in
On April 23, 2021, the agreement to process the claim is signed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

FOURTH: When transferring the claim to the respondent, he filed a letter on June 2
of 2021, stating that the unrecognized efforts that were carried out in his
client account, as of September 13, 2020, currently consists
duly canceled and informs about the Security Policy of obligatory
compliance with which the claimed party has to prevent the carrying out of formalities
fraudulent and indicate that they have adopted additional security measures that are
have been applied to the customer account associated with the claimant.

 They also point out that the petitioners' requests to exercise the rights
access to your personal data and rectification of your postal address, have
proceeded to its due correction in the databases of the claimed and in the profile
of the claimant on the “My Vodafone” website.

Attached as document number 1, the response provided to the claimant, by virtue of
of its exercise before the claimed right of rectification, in accordance with the
article 16 of the RGPD. In this sense, the claimant is confirmed that the data
information regarding your postal address has been duly rectified in your
systems and in your profile on the "My Vodafone" platform, so that, currently,
Your address is correctly listed in ***ADDRESS.1. Also, according to his
request in which you exercise the right of access to your personal data,
In accordance with article 15 of the RGPD, in the aforementioned Document number 1, it is
grants the claimant a due response, informing about the personal data
that the claimant has.

The respondent has been able to verify that, on August 7, 2020 and December 13,
September 2020, their systems contain various interactions in relation to
the client account of the claimant. Specifically, as has been verified, the
On August 7, a series of calls were made from a line
allegedly unrelated to the claimant, in which information was requested
about the offers of fiber and terminals that were in force in the
claimed.

On the other hand, on September 13, according to the systems of the respondent, he had
place a call in which the Unlimited Vodafone rate was contracted and a
iPhone 11 Pro Max terminal, 256 GB with the installment payment method. Likewise,
according to the claimant, the contact address and the shipping address were modified
of orders associated with your profile on the “My Vodafone” platform. However, these
negotiations were duly canceled the next day, before the
processing was completed, when the claimant informed the
claimed that she did not recognize them.

In this sense, in what refers to the modification of the rate of the complainant, the
claimed could not reestablish its rate because it had been
discontinued. However, the respondent charged the claimant a fee
equivalent to the modified one. They attach, as Document number 2, a copy of the contract
formalized between the parties for contracting the new rate.

On the other hand, the respondent states that it has implemented a Security Policy
which is mandatory for all its employees and agents.
Specifically, for those cases in which the client has activated the password for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

security, a strict Security Policy is applicable, through the
which is only allowed to answer calls if the caller provides the access code of
Customer Service correctly, whether or not you are the owner of the customer account. In any
In this case, the claimed company does not provide the personal data related to its clients to
third parties, without compliance with the security procedures referred to in the
previous paragraphs. For all these reasons, and after analyzing the claims filed by the
claimant, we understand that the respondent acted at all times in accordance with the
security procedures you have in place. Attached as
Document number 3, a document that contains the Security Policy of the
claimed for private clients. Lastly, regarding the exercise of the right to
rectification, after verifying that, indeed, the postal address associated with the
claimant was registered with errors in any of the systems used
by the claimed one, when the postal address appears in the contact information as
*** ADDRESS.2, has been corrected in accordance with the request of
the claimant, having modified the remaining 0, so that, at present, the
postal address that appears in the Vodafone systems is ***ADDRESS.1, both in
the databases of the claimed as in the profile of the claimant of the platform
“My Vodafone”.”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDPGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

II

The exposed facts may imply, on the part of the defendant, the commission
of an infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD that establishes the assumptions that allow
consider the processing of personal data lawful.

Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the

assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

                 "1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;
(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

a) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In the present case, it is accredited, as recognized by the respondent, that the
September 13, 2020, a call took place in which the rate was contracted
Unlimited Vodafone and a 256 GB iPhone 11 Pro Max terminal was purchased with the
method of payment in installments. Also, according to the claimant, the
contact address and shipping address for orders associated with your profile on the
"My Vodafone" platform, and these procedures were not canceled until the claimant
he did not inform the defendant.

Therefore, there is no doubt that there was improper access by a third party to the
personal account "My Vodafone" of the claimant, modifying their personal data
(email, rates and contracting services). Thus, the claimed, not
verified the identity of the person who accessed the claimant's personal account “My
Vodafone”, did not take the necessary precautions so that these events did not occur.

According to the evidence currently available
procedural and without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the procedure, it is estimated
that the conduct of the complained party could violate article 6.1 of the RGPD
being able to constitute the infraction typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned
Regulation 2016/679.

In this sense, Recital 40 of the GDPR states:

         “(40) For the processing to be lawful, the personal data must be processed
with the consent of the interested party or on some other legitimate basis established
in accordance with Law, either in these Regulations or by virtue of another Law

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

of the Union or of the Member States referred to in this Regulation,
including the need to comply with the legal obligation applicable to the person responsible for the
treatment or the need to execute a contract in which the interested party is a party or
in order to take measures at the request of the interested party prior to the
conclusion of a contract.”

III

The determination of the sanction to be imposed in this case requires
observe the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the RGPD, precepts that,
respectively, provide the following:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to pa-
allocate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent.
gives;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under Article 40 or to certification mechanisms
fication approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly.
mind, through infraction.”

 Within this section, the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 76, entitled "Sancio-
tions and corrective measures”:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are disputes between them and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate,
of the remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose on the claimed entity as responsible for an infraction typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD and 72.1 b) of the LOPDGDD, in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent in this case:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

As aggravating factors:

-

-

That the facts object of the claim are attributable to a lack of diligence
of the claimed party (article 83.2.b, RGPD).

The evident link between the business activity of the respondent and the
processing of personal data of clients or third parties (article 83.2.k, of the
RGPD in relation to article 76.2.b, of the LOPDGDD)

It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed on the claimed party and set it at the amount of

€70,000 for the infringement of article 83.5 a) RGPD and 72.1b) of the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the

Spanish Data Protection Agency.

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397, for the alleged infringement of article 6.1) typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT D. B.B.B. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. C.C.C.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
Public Sector Co (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents
obtained and generated by the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be for the violation of article 6.1 of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, the corresponding sanction would be a
fine for an amount of 70,000 euros (seventy thousand euros) without prejudice to what results
of instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A80907397 granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% for the sanction to be imposed
in this proceeding, equivalent in this case to fourteen thousand euros (€14,000).
With the application of this reduction, the amount of the sanction would be established in
fifty-six thousand euros (€56,000), resolving the procedure with the imposition
of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction,
in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 LPACAP, which will mean a
reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case to fourteen thousand
euros (€14,000), for the imputed infraction. With the application of this reduction, the
The amount of the penalty would be established at fifty-six thousand euros (€56,000) and
its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.
The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at forty-two thousand euros (€42,000).
In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.
In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above, 56,000 euros or 42,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears
in the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
is welcomed.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

SECOND: It is stated that the Start Agreement was notified on July 26, 2021,
proceeded on August 9, 2021 to pay the penalties in the amount of 56,000
euros making use of the reduction provided for in the Start Agreement, stating:
“That Vodafone has ordered the payment of €56,000 corresponding to the infringement
initially planned, taking into account the 20% reduction for the payment
voluntary sanction, and in this act desists and waives any action or resource
in administrative proceedings in relation to this assumption of fact, in accordance with the
established in art. 85 of the LPACAP”.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
Home Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under
the heading "Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations."

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00190/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with
NIF A80907397.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as
prescribed by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations, interested parties may
file a contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious Chamber
of the National High Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and
in section 5 of the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13,
regulation of the Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months to
count from the day following the notification of this act, as provided in the
Article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

