1(17)

The directorate of the Rescue Service Östra Skaraborg
Majorsgatan 1
54141 Skövde
By e-mail: raddningstjansten@rtos.se

Diary number:
DI-2018-22697
Your diary number:
2019–000014
Date:
2021-06-09

Decision after supervision according to
data protection regulation –
camera surveillance within
Rescue service Östra Skaraborg
Content
The Privacy Protection Authority's decision................................................... ............................ 2
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ........................................ 2
Justification of the decision................................................... ................................................ .... 4
Personal data controller................................................... ...................................... 4
The time for the trial................................................... ............................................ 4
Rules for the Emergency Service's camera surveillance................................................. 4
The Camera Surveillance Act................................................... .......................... 4
The Data Protection Ordinance................................................... .......................... 5
Is the Rescue Service's camera surveillance permitted according to
data protection regulation?................................................ ..................................... 5
Legal basis for the processing of personal data (Article 6)................... 5
Basic principles for processing personal data (Article 5).... 7
The principles of legality and correctness (Article 5.1 a)............................. 8
The principle of data minimization (Article 5.1 c)...................................... 11
Security in connection with the treatment (Article 32)................................ 12
Choice of intervention................................................... ................................................ 14
Legal regulation................................................ ..................................... 14
Penalty fee................................................... ........................................ 14

Mailing address:
Box 8114
104 20 Stockholm
Website:
www.imy.se
E-mail:
imy@imy.se
Phone:
08-657 61 00

How to appeal............................................... ................................................... ..... 17

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

2(17)

The Privacy Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority notes that the Directorate for Rescue Services Östra
Skaraborg, with organization number 222000-1115, since 25 May 2018 until
on May 6, 2021 by camera surveillance in the carriage hall at eight fire stations has
processed personal data in violation of
-

-

article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation1 by camera surveillance of employees
place of change in case of alarm contrary to the principle of correctness,
Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation by processing more personal data
than has been necessary for the purposes contrary to the principle of
task minimization, as well
article 32.1 and 32.4 of the data protection regulation because instructions from it
personal data controller has been missing for how the personal data has been received
be used and the requirement for appropriate organizational measures, to ensure
a security level that is appropriate in relation to the risk, thus is not
fulfilled.

The Privacy Protection Authority decides with the support of ch. 6. Section 2 of the Data Protection Act2 and
articles 58.2 and 83 of the data protection regulation that the Directorate for the Rescue Service
Östra Skaraborg must pay an administrative sanction fee of 350,000
(three hundred and fifty thousand) kroner, of which 300,000 (three hundred thousand) kroner refers to
the violations of Article 5.1 a or 5.1 c and 50,000 (fifty thousand) kroner refers
the violations of article 32.1 and article 32.4 of the data protection regulation.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Swedish Privacy Agency (IMY) has received complaints that
The management of the Rescue Service Östra Skaraborg (Rescue Service) conducts
camera surveillance in the fire station's carriage hall with a place to change in the event of an alarm and has
initiated supervision of the Rescue Service.
The inspection has been initiated with the aim of reviewing the Rescue Service's
personal data processing in the form of camera surveillance has taken place in accordance with
the principles of legality and correctness in Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation,
the principle of data minimization in Article 5.1 c, the legal basis requirement in Article 6 and
the requirements for organizational security in Article 32.
When reviewing the processing of personal data in the form of camera surveillance of
the wagon halls, the following has essentially emerged.
Camera surveillance has since March–April 2015 until May 6, 2021 been carried out at
the stations in Skövde, Mariestad, Hjo, Tibro, Karlsborg, Hova, Gullspång and Töreboda.
A camera has been installed at each station. All cameras have been placed in
the wagon halls at the fire stations and has guarded a space used as
garage for emergency vehicles. The staff's emergency clothing is also stored in the carriage hall,

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free flow of such data and on
repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
2 Act (2018:218) with supplementary provisions to the EU data protection regulation.
1

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

3(17)

alarm stand, which must be able to be quickly put on before expressing in the event of an alarm. For other types of
changing rooms, there are special changing rooms that are not monitored by cameras.
The camera surveillance of the wagon halls has been carried out around the clock in real time without
image recording. The cameras have been mobile mounted and have shown a number of views according to
a predetermined movement pattern. The cameras have also been able to be controlled manually and have
optics that can zoom.
The film material has been reviewed in real time by internal commanders from the command center in Skövde when
alarm has been activated at a fire station. The command center that the cameras are
connected to be staffed in emergency situations. Review of what was captured by
the camera's coverage area has only occurred in these situations. Sound has been able
is recorded in real time after the inside commander has activated a microphone to be able to converse
with the compelling force. A light has been on in the carriage hall when the microphone has been
activated.
The camera-surveillance fire stations are manned by personnel who are as well
full-time employee (Skövde and Mariestad) as part-time employee (all audited
stations). When part-time staff move in, the firefighters must normally within five
minutes from the alarm going off, change having left the fire station in a vehicle. Then shall
the firefighters have made it to the fire station, often in a private car, have changed and have
placed in the correct vehicle. Full-time staff are usually at the fire station when
alarms go and change from station uniform. The firemen are on it
guarded the scene in the carriage hall for about a minute.
In the complaint, it has been stated that it has happened that moving staff in on alarms in the middle of the night
have arrived at the fire station in a dressing gown with underwear or nothing at all underneath,
which has meant that staff have been camera-surveilled naked or only in
underwear when changing to an alarm stand. The emergency services have received a statement
on 31 May 2021 stated that it does not occur at all that
rescue personnel on standby come to the respective station in the event of an alarm wearing only their clothes
dressing gown with only underwear or no underwear at all. In opinion received on 22
May 2019, it is stated that no employee is to stay on the premises of the Rescue Service
naked, except in changing rooms intended for this, as it can be perceived as bothersome
and offensive to other employees. Furthermore, it has been stated that the alarm center is designed like this
that its function is maintained regardless of whether the employee chooses to dress only in
alarm stand or choose to have a base under the alarm stand. The employees who choose to
do not use e.g. underwear can choose to wear only underwear underneath
the alarm point and will therefore in such cases only wear underwear under one
shorter time when dressing and undressing the alarm station.
Furthermore, it has emerged that the employees at one of the fire stations protested
against the camera surveillance in connection with the introduction in 2015 by covering for a part
of the surface where the alarm points hang with a cardboard disc. The emergency services have in the statement
which came in on 22 May 2019, supplemented on 28 May 2019, stating that
the cardboard was removed after cooperation with local trade union representatives following a break-in. At
collaboration with employee organizations in 2015, views emerged such as
others claimed that camera surveillance should not cover the place where the exchange takes place,
that it would be an advantage to activate the camera only in the event of an alarm, that it was perceived as offensive
to be monitored and that the information about the camera surveillance was broken. Infront of
cooperation in August 2015, the employer's direction was stated to be that measures would
taken so that areas where staff change could not be monitored by cameras. At
the collaborative meeting was decided to ensure that each station would be adapted so that

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

4(17)

camera surveillance of dressing rooms would not take place. The emergency services have stated
that since August 2015 there have been no complaints against the camera surveillance or
that the issue of cooperation is raised again.
As for the information about the camera surveillance that is provided has
The rescue service stated that it is now included in the checklist during introduction that
inform new employees about the camera surveillance, that a written information has been taken
forth to ensure this information and that it is signposted on the premises
camera surveillance.
The rescue service has attached to its final statement in May 2021 a decision made on 6
May 2021, where it is stated that the camera surveillance being reviewed must end with
immediate effect. Furthermore, the need for camera surveillance must be re-assessed
that IMY has made a decision in the current case.

Justification of the decision
Personal data controller
The management of the Rescue Service Östra Skaraborg is said to be
personal data manager for the Rescue Service's personal data processing. IMY parts
this view.

The time of the trial
The audited camera surveillance has been ongoing since March-April 2015 until May 6
2021. As the data protection regulation only began to be applied on 25 May 2018, IMY's
examination, which takes place on the basis of said regulation, limited to circumstances that have
occurred during the time thereafter. Circumstances connected with the introduction of
camera surveillance in 2015 is thus outside IMY's supervision.

Rules for the Rescue Service's camera surveillance
Camera surveillance is a form of personal data processing. How and in which
the extent to which camera surveillance is permitted in the current case is regulated in
the data protection regulation and the camera surveillance act (2018:1200) which supplement
data protection regulation.
The Camera Surveillance Act
Section 4 of the Camera Surveillance Act states that the law applies to camera surveillance according to Section 3
takes place with equipment available in Sweden. From § 3 point 1 of the Camera Surveillance Act
it appears that camera surveillance includes that a television camera, another optical-electronic
instrument or comparable equipment, without being operated on site
used in such a way as to imply lasting or regularly repeated
personal security. The camera surveillance that the Rescue Service has conducted has not
maneuvered on site and has involved permanent monitoring of the employees as well as
other visitors. The Camera Surveillance Act therefore applies to the Emergency Services
coverage.
The Camera Surveillance Act contains provisions on when permission is required to
camera surveillance. It follows from Section 7 of the Camera Surveillance Act that permission is required for surveillance
of a place to which the public has access if the monitoring is carried out by an authority or
anyone other than an authority in the performance of a task of public interest which

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

5(17)

follows from law or other constitution, collective agreement or decision announced with support
by law or other constitution.
The rescue service Östra Skaraborg is a municipal association and thus a
authority, and is, as a starting point, subject to permission for camera surveillance. The question is
then if the public is considered to have access to the place as the Rescue Service
camera monitor. It appears from practice that the concept of "place to which the public has access"
must be interpreted broadly (see the Supreme Administrative Court's ruling RÅ 2000 ref. 52). Many
however, workplaces are considered a place to which the public does not have access (prop.
2017/18:23 p.22).
In the light of what has emerged about the location of the surveillance, IMY assesses that
it is not a question of a place to which the public has access. Any requirement to apply
permit is therefore not available. However, the fact that the camera surveillance is permit-free does not mean that
the surveillance is allowed. In addition to the provision on permits, there are other rules in
the CCTV Act, e.g. on confidentiality regarding the recorded material,
obligation to negotiate with employee organizations and requirements for information, which
may be relevant to follow during camera surveillance. In addition, the rules in
data protection regulation.
The Data Protection Regulation
According to Article 2.1, the Data Protection Regulation shall, among other things, be applied to the processing of
personal data in a completely automatic way. From article 4.1 of the data protection regulation
it appears that any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person
is a personal data. According to Article 4.2, treatment refers to an action concerning
personal data, for example collection, registration, reading and deletion. About one
surveillance camera captures an identifiable person or any other personal data in
image must therefore comply with the rules in the data protection regulation. Since
The emergency services have filmed, and recorded sounds from, identifiable people with their
cameras apply to the data protection regulation.
The Data Protection Regulation contains a large number of rules that must be followed
Processing of personal data. Within the scope of this supervisory matter is the IMY's examination
limited to whether the Rescue Service has a legal basis according to Article 6 i
the data protection regulation to conduct the current camera surveillance, if
The emergency services have lived up to the basic principles for treatment of
personal data in Article 5.1 a on legality and correctness and in Article 5.1 c on
data minimization, as well as whether the Rescue Service has met the requirements for safety i
Article 32 by having taken appropriate organizational measures.

Is the Rescue Service's camera surveillance permitted according to
data protection regulation?
Legal basis for the processing of personal data (Article 6)
In Article 6 of the Data Protection Regulation, it is stated that a treatment is only legal if at least
one of the conditions specified in the article is met, that is, there is a legal basis
for the treatment.
The processing is necessary to perform a task of public interest, 6.1 e
The emergency services have stated that the legal basis for the surveillance is to
the surveillance is necessary to carry out a task of public interest according to article
6.1 e of the data protection regulation.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

6(17)

Of the preparatory work for law (2018:218) with supplementary provisions to the EU's
data protection regulation (hereinafter the data protection act) the following appears in prop. 2017/18:105
(p. 60).
In order for the processing of personal data to be permitted according to article
6.1 e of the data protection regulation requires that the purpose of the processing
is necessary to perform the task. This must according to the government's
assessment should not be interpreted as meaning that the task must be of public interest
bounded so that it can only be performed in one way. The method that it
however, the data controller chooses to perform its task must –
like all public administration – be expedient, efficient and
proportionate and must therefore not lead to an unnecessary intrusion into
individual privacy. The more detailed a certain task has been regulated, the
there should be less room for the person in charge of personal data to
choose different approaches. This in turn leads to a larger
predictability in terms of which personal data processing can
updated. If an assignment has instead been settled on one more
overall and result-oriented level it can probably be carried out on
many different ways, which in relation to each other can be more or
less necessary in the sense of the data protection regulation.
According to Article 6.3, treatment with support in Article 6.1 e must also be determined accordingly
with Union law or the national law of a Member State.
The rescue service's operations are regulated nationally in the law (2003:778) on protection against
accidents. According to chap. 1, rescue service is defined as § 2 the rescue efforts that the state
or the municipalities must be responsible for accidents and imminent danger of accidents, for
to prevent and limit damage to people, property or the environment. From ch. 1 Section 3
it appears that the rescue service must be planned and organized so that the rescue efforts
can be started within an acceptable time and carried out efficiently. Although
more detailed regulations for how the Rescue Service must process personal data
is missing, the regulation needs to be specific enough to be used as a basis for
the assessment of legal basis in Article 6 of the Data Protection Regulation. That the legislation is
overall can provide a greater opportunity for the Rescue Service to choose how their
assignment must be carried out than if the regulation had been more specific.
The emergency services have stated that the purposes that have been determined for the monitoring are
following.
-

To facilitate leadership and efficiency during a rescue operation
To facilitate presence control of the firefighters who move in after an alarm
To facilitate vehicle selection
To make it possible to ensure that the force leader is well and able to handle
the task
To secure the shell protection as well
To assess the correctness of any alarm connected to the key cabinets on
the stations

IMY assesses that the purposes can be divided into two categories. The initial four
the purposes intend to enable work management and efficiency in an alarm situation. The
the latter two purposes relate to physical security at the fire station.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

7(17)

The emergency services have stated that the camera surveillance at all fire stations
except at Tibro station with automatics, the space there has also taken place
the expression clothes are kept. This means that other fire stations have
the surveillance covered the place where the staff change to the alarm station. The reason for
the camera at Tibro station has not guarded the place for change in case of alarm is one
programming errors which have meant that the camera movement pattern has not covered the location
for replacement, if the camera has not been manually controlled to monitor it. According to
However, the rescue service's intention has been to fix this so that even
the camera surveillance at Tibro station would include a place to change. Compared to those
stations where the place for changing has been guarded, the Rescue Service has stated that on
Tibro station has had worse conditions for the management ability and efficiency at
exclamation. It has been more difficult to ensure attendance control and to ensure that
the force leader is fine at the alarm. Through the camera surveillance, the purposes with
the surveillance related to the alarm situation is achieved at the same time as the personnel
ready to go on an alarm, that is, the working method is cost- and
execution efficient.
IMY's assessment – legal basis
IMY states that the camera surveillance carried out by the Rescue Service refers to
surveillance of employees at their workplace where staff must be under
working hours. Those registered are in a dependent position and are monitored in their
everyday environment. The monitoring has meant 24/7 monitoring in real time and
the catchment area has also included a place for changing. There are data
that it has happened that employees have stayed on for reasons of efficiency during the changeover
the changing area completely without clothes, which has however been refuted by the Rescue Service.
Both the scope of the surveillance and what is captured by the cameras have increased
the infringement for the individual.
The camera surveillance, which has included the employees in their underwear, means
that the Rescue Service has camera surveillance of the employees in privacy-sensitive situations.
However, the processing has not included special categories of personal data, so
called sensitive personal data, according to Article 9 of the data protection regulation. The
the national legislation which according to Article 6.3 shall determine the legal basis
does not therefore need to be more precise than in the law on protection against accidents, but can be
generally held.
In light of the above and with regard to the Rescue Service's special
assignments and requirements for efficiency, IMY makes the assessment that the treatment has been
necessary to perform a task of public interest and that the Rescue Service has
had a legal basis according to Article 6.1 e of the data protection regulation for the person in question
the treatment.
The question then becomes whether the current treatment has lived up to some of them
the basic principles for the processing of personal data in Article 5.
Basic principles for processing personal data (Article 5)
In Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation there are a number of basic principles like that
personal data controller must take into account when processing personal data.
From Article 5.1 a it follows, among other things, that all personal data processing, in addition to being
legal, must also be correct (the principles of legality and correctness). Of article
5.1 c follows that personal data processed must be adequate, relevant and not

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

8(17)

too extensive in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (principle of
task minimization).
In conclusion, it follows from Article 5.2 that the person in charge of personal data shall be responsible for and
be able to demonstrate that the principles that follow from Article 5.1 are complied with (the principle of
liability).
The principles of legality and correctness (Article 5.1 a)
That the processing must be legal means there must be a legal basis in Article 6. IMY
has assessed above that the Rescue Service fulfills the requirement on a legal basis in Article 6.1 e,
information of general interest. The treatment is therefore deemed to be compatible with the principle
on legality in Article 5.1 a.
As for the processing to be correct, the following can be seen from the preparatory work
the data protection act (prop. 2017/18:105 p. 47).
As far as the principle of correctness is concerned, a comparison with
other language versions are questioned as to whether the Swedish term is correct
corresponds to the intention of the provision. In the Danish language version
instead, it is stated that the data must be treated fairly. On the equivalent
way is used in the English language version the term fairly, which
means fair, reasonable or reasonable. In the French language version
the term loyale is used, which has the same meaning as
English fairly. In the German language version, the expression Treu is used
und Glauben, which is usually translated as good faith or faith and honor.
All these terms indicate in the opinion of the government, more clearly than that
the Swedish term is correct, that a balancing of interests must be done. In it
in individual cases, it can therefore e.g. be inconsistent with the principle of
correctness to take a certain treatment measure, even if this in and for
itself could be considered legally founded under Article 6, viz
if the processing is unreasonable in relation to the data subject.
The legislature has here stated that even if a legal basis exists, it should in a
assessment of whether the treatment lives up to the principle of correctness is still made
balance of interests to determine whether the treatment is unreasonable in relation to it
registered, in this case the employees.
In the statement received on 22 May 2019, the rescue service stated that it did not
are there any other, less privacy-infringing solutions to do the same thing without
that the rescue effort is negatively affected. However, it has also been stated that it is not
necessary that camera surveillance takes place around the clock to carry out emergency services, without
that it only needs to happen in the event of an alarm to the station in question. Furthermore, the Rescue Service has
stated that the cameras are technically connected to the application they are shown around the clock
around.
To the balancing of interests that the legislator means must be done in an examination of
the principle of correctness lacks further guidance. European Data Protection Board,
EDPB, however, has in EU guidelines on built-in data protection and data protection as standard
specified that, among other things, the following circumstances must be taken into account when examining whether
the principle of correctness is complied with.3 It states, for example, that the processing shall
conform to the data subjects' reasonable expectations. Further that balance of power should
3

EDPB guidelines 4/2019 on Article 25, Built-in data protection and data protection as standard, version 2.0, pp. 18 ff.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

9(17)

be a central goal of the relationship between the personal data controller and it
registered. The personal data controller must also respect the data subject
fundamental rights and take appropriate measures and safeguards. The
personal data controller must also ensure the impact of the processing on the individual
rights and dignity.
IMY's assessment - the principle of correctness
Regarding the balance of interests to be made, IMY makes the following assessment of them
different interests.
IMY states at the outset that the Rescue Service through the law on protection against
accidents have a requirement for their business that it must be conducted efficiently with regard to both time
and execution, in order to prevent and limit damage to, in the event of accidents and danger of accidents
people, property or environment.
The emergency services have stated that, among other things, they have a preparedness for people
who end up in distress at sea and other life-threatening situations, toxic substances that are released into
nature, traffic accidents, fires that occur in buildings and terrain and people
and property threatened by extreme weather. It is not infrequent that lives are in danger at them
events The emergency services are alerted in seconds or minutes
make a difference.
The purpose of the Rescue Service's camera surveillance, which is now being reviewed, is described in detail
above and can be summarized as enabling work management and efficiency in the event of an alarm
respectively to ensure the physical safety of the fire station.
The emergency services have stated that there are no other less privacy-sensitive ways
to achieve the same efficiency. At the Tibro fire station, where guarding the place of change
has not occurred automatically, the prerequisites for the ability to conduct and
the efficiency when called out has been worse compared to other stations. The staff
do not stay at the station more than the time they put on alarm gear, which means
that if communication with them is to take place without the rescue effort being delayed, must
it continues at the same time as the exchange takes place.
Overall, IMY assesses that the Rescue Service's need for camera surveillance on
the place weighs heavily, especially in case of alarm.
One of the purposes of the surveillance is presence control of the firefighters who move in
after alarm. IMY states that camera surveillance to perform presence control on a
workplace is in principle not permitted. In the current case, the security interest has been judged to weigh
heavy, especially in case of alarm. IMY makes the assessment that the Rescue Service's surveillance is one
such case where camera surveillance as an attendance check can be considered permissible. At it
the assessment has particularly taken into account the requirement for effectiveness in the event of an alarm
The emergency services, where seconds and minutes can make a difference to life and health.
With regard to the interests of the data subjects, it can be stated that the places which
camera surveillance are workplaces where the employees, who are dependent on their
employer, must be present during their working hours. The employees stay in the carriage hall
both in the event of an alarm but also during the performance of other tasks. The character of the place
means that the employees are there in their everyday environment and cannot opt out
be monitored by cameras. The interest in privacy therefore weighs heavily as a starting point.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

10(17)

When it comes to eavesdropping and recording sound in connection with camera surveillance is
this is particularly sensitive to privacy and is only exceptionally permitted. As
privacy-enhancing measure, however, a light turns on when the microphone that enables oral
communication between the control center and the wagon hall is activated. IMY states
that the audio interception is thus limited to situations that require communication
and that the microphone has been used in sharp situations during alarms, when the need to monitor
weighs particularly heavily. Furthermore, the audio that is intercepted is mainly a conversation with them
which is monitored. That the staff is part of the conversation in combination with lamp activation does
that they are aware that eavesdropping is taking place. The measure reduces the intrusion somewhat
applies to interception and recording of sound. IMY therefore makes the assessment that
the sound recording in the event of an alarm as it has been conducted is permitted.
Furthermore, it appears that the guarded area also includes a place to change when entering
and stripping of alarm stands, where the camera surveillance in the event of an alarm for a short while has
caught the employees in undergarments or underwear when changing into performance clothes.
Whether the staff in some cases have been monitored completely without clothes has not been able to be clarified
the case. The rescue service believes that the employees are extremely used to handling
integrity-sensitive situations both in the performance of their duties during rescue efforts
towards third parties, but also at the station work and internally in the organization when that
exchanges take place in front of each other in every alarm situation, but also during regular practice
and education. The emergency services consider that the internal commander who has access to
real-time monitoring has management responsibility regardless of whether it takes place in the physical space
or via technical equipment, for the best possible management. According to the Rescue Service
assessment, the change can be accommodated in front of colleagues and commanders well in a proportionality perspective.
IMY assesses that the privacy interest at the place where the exchange takes place is significantly greater
more prominent than in the rest of the carriage hall. However, it must be considered that the solution with exchange
to the alarm stand in the carriage hall and the camera surveillance of this is deemed necessary
for the efficiency of the business, which reduces the intrusion somewhat. IMY does, however
overall, the assessment that the overall interest in privacy at the site weighs
very heavy, as the surveillance has been conducted. This also applies if the staff in
the changing situation is wearing underwear or underwear.
In the assessment of the two sides of the balancing of interests, IMY has thus assessed that
the need for surveillance weighs heavily, especially in the event of an alarm, and that it was recorded, they
employees' interests in terms of camera surveillance of the place of change carry a lot of weight
heavy.
When weighing up the needs of the Rescue Service and the interests of the employees do
IMY further the following assessment. As for whether the registered can expect it
the current camera surveillance, the Rescue Service has stated that it currently has
informed about the surveillance in several ways, including through signs on the premises.
However, it has emerged that there are no guidelines for in which situations the competent
the staff have had the right to access the real-time monitoring, which may mean that they
employees have had difficulty assessing the extent to which the material has been used. In question
about the balance of power between the Rescue Service and the employees, it has been established that
the employees are dependent on their employer, which means that
the balance of power is uneven.
Since the monitoring of exchanges includes privacy-sensitive information, higher demands are made
than otherwise on protective measures to reduce the breach of privacy. IMY thinks it is
necessary with privacy-enhancing measures, for example a partial shielding of
the place of exchange. The emergency services have indicated that as integrity-enhancing measures

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

11(17)

in addition to the fact that a light is lit when the microphone is activated, only the sound can be heard from it
the wagon hall in a headset in the control center and that there are restricted access to
the command center. In terms of, for example, masking or delimiting parts of the site
for exchange to minimize the collection of this data, has any such measure
not revealed during IMY's review.
Regarding masking the place of change, the Rescue Service has in its opinion on 22
May 2019, stated the following (p.7).
In light of the fact that most stations have alarm points hanging in
the carriage hall completely defeated the purpose of the cameras on these surfaces
was screened off, i.e. the carriage hall would not be seen in the cameras.
From images from the camera surveillance that the Rescue Service has submitted in its statement
16 January 2019, however, in IMY's opinion, it seems clear that without major
difficulty should be possible to partially delineate the occupation of the place of exchange from
respective camera, so that no more than, for example, heads are captured by the surveillance.
This can, for example, either happen through a masking of the camera views that show
the place of change or through a physical screen in the respective carriage hall.
Regarding the impact of the camera surveillance on the employees' rights and
dignity, IMY states that it has not emerged that it has been possible to avoid that
be monitored by cameras during the changeover to the alarm stand. Having camera surveillance when changing
occurs in the event of an alarm, could mean that the employees have repeatedly been in their underwear
brief moments in the guarded area. In an objective assessment, it can be considered
go beyond what is proper treatment by an employer.
Overall, IMY states that the purposes of the Rescue Service are justified.
The rescue service's interest in monitoring has been judged to weigh heavily, especially in the event of an alarm.
However, the interests of the data subjects have been deemed to weigh very heavily, especially in the case of
place for changing to an alarm stand, which has been monitored by cameras without masking or
demarcation. Even when account has been taken of the special circumstances and requirements of
efficiency that prevails in the Rescue Service's efforts, IMY states that they
employees' interests weigh more heavily in the question of the place of change in the event of an alarm and that
the surveillance in this situation, as it has been carried out, is unreasonable in relation to
employees. The monitoring of the exchange situation in the event of an alarm without delimitation therefore has
occurred in violation of the principle of correctness in Article 5.1 a of the data protection regulation.
The principle of data minimization (Article 5.1 c)
Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation states that personal data that is processed
must be adequate, relevant and not too extensive in relation to the purposes for
which they are processed, which constitutes the principle of data minimization.
The camera surveillance that is now being reviewed has been carried out around the clock in real time in the carriage hall
at eight fire stations and has included room for changing without any masking or
demarcation. Internal commanders at the command center have reviewed the camera surveillance at
alarm.
The emergency services have stated that it is not necessary to monitor the carriage hall with cameras
around the clock, without it only having to happen in case of an alarm to the station in question. The cameras have
however, have been connected to the technical solution where the camera image is displayed around the clock
around.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

12(17)

As regards the guarding of the place for changing, the Rescue Service has stated that it does not
there are other less privacy-sensitive ways to achieve the same efficiency. The surveillance
of the place of change is necessary as the staff no longer stays at the station
than the time they put on alarm gear. This means that communication with them must
take place at the same time as they change, so that the rescue operation is not delayed.
IMY's assessment – the principle of task minimisation
IMY has stated above that monitoring employees who change means treatment
of privacy-sensitive information that goes beyond what the individual needs
accept. The monitoring of the fire stations has included employees who are in
dependent relationship to their employer. It places special demands on the employer to
take measures to reduce the breach of privacy for the employees. Some adaptation of
the guarding has not been carried out, in addition to access restriction, and place for change
has been camera monitored without masking or delineation. The monitoring has been ongoing
around the clock in real time, despite the fact that it has been stated to be necessary only in the event of an alarm.
Against this background, IMY notes that the Rescue Service's camera surveillance has
entailed an excessively extensive processing of personal data in relation to
the purposes. The processing has therefore taken place in violation of the principle of
data minimization in Article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation.
The purpose of the rescue service, which has intended the physical safety of
the fire stations, that is to ensure shell protection and to assess the correctness of
According to the Rescue Service, alarms connected to the key cabinets at the stations do not
included preventing and investigating crime. IMY states that the purposes are
entitled, but that 24-hour camera surveillance is too far-reaching for those specified
purposes. Said objectives should be achievable with less far-reaching measures, to
for example through a different solution for entry or an activated surveillance in the event of an alarm
from the key cabinet.
Even this processing has therefore taken place in violation of the principle of data minimization i
article 5.1 c of the data protection regulation.
Security in connection with the processing (Article 32)
With regard to the security of the Rescue Service in connection with the camera surveillance, IMY has
reviewed the organizational security in terms of authorization management and guidelines
for handling the surveillance material.
Article 32 of the data protection regulation regulates security in connection with processing.
According to point 1, the personal data controller and the personal data assistant must, among
other taking into account the latest developments, implementation costs and
the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing and the risks, of
varying degree of probability and seriousness, for the rights and freedoms of natural persons
take appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a
security level that is appropriate in relation to the risk.
According to point 2, when assessing the appropriate level of security, special consideration must be given to them
risks that the processing entails, in particular for accidental or illegal destruction,
loss or alteration or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to them
personal data transferred, stored or otherwise processed.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

13(17)

Paragraph 4 states that the personal data controller and the personal data assistant must
take measures to ensure that every natural person who performs work under it
the supervision of the personal data controller or the personal data assistant, and who may
access to personal data, only processes these on instructions from it
personal data controller.
Reason 39 of the data protection regulation states, among other things, that personal data should
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security and confidentiality for
the personal data and prevents unauthorized access to and unauthorized use of
personal data and the equipment used for processing.
The rescue service has stated that 29 people have had access to the command center
where the camera surveillance in the event of an alarm has been brought up to full screen view, of which 6 internal commanders as
has his workplace in the command center, 16 other officers and managers who have tasks in
the command center in case of alarms or staff work and 7 operating technicians for maintenance of premises
and technology. All employees do not stay there at the same time, but the employee who has
took part in the camera material is the duty interior commander in the event of an alarm. Every
however, employees who have access to the command center have had the opportunity to see
the camera image and what is going on at a fire station in real time. In cases where the stake is
complicated or several parallel operations in progress may several internal commanders or others
control functions are in the control center at the same time and have then been able to see
the camera image.
The emergency services have stated that there have been no guidelines for when an authorized
person has been allowed to view the camera image. However, the working method has been that the camera image
manually taken up in full-screen view in the event of an alarm on the current station.
IMY's assessment – safety of the treatment
As for who has access to the footage from the camera surveillance
IMY notes that the Rescue Service has stated that a number of people have access to
the room where the camera surveillance is shown in real time, the command center. Even if it is not
it is clear how the full screen view showing the camera surveillance is delimited,
IMY states that at different times and situations there may be a need for several
people have access to the real-time monitoring in the event of an alarm, as the Rescue Service has
described the handling. The business also runs around the clock, which means that more than
otherwise need to have access to the material. IMY therefore finds that it may be justified to
a greater number of employees are authorized to access information from
the camera surveillance. However, it is central that the person in charge of personal data then has
organizational measures in place to ensure the security of the data. Among
otherwise, clear guidelines are needed for who should have access to the material, under which conditions
prerequisites and if the authorization is surrounded by special restrictions for
the handling of the image material.
IMY notes that a personal data controller according to Article 32.1 must take appropriate measures
technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security that is
appropriate in relation to the risk. When assessing the appropriate security level, special
account is taken of the risks that the processing entails, including for unauthorized access to
the personal data processed. The person in charge of personal data must according to article
32.4 of the data protection regulation also take measures to ensure that a physical
person only processes personal data according to instructions from it
personal data controller.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

14(17)

The more sensitive information that is processed, the higher the demands placed on security in order to
it must be considered appropriate in relation to the treatment being carried out. That guidelines
has been missing for when and how the camera surveillance may be used can mean that those who
has handled the camera surveillance has gone beyond what is necessary and thus
allowed. It also means that there can be uncertainty for those who have
camera surveillance, concerning in which situations the camera surveillance has been used and
whether it has been limited to situations where the surveillance has been necessary.
As the monitoring has been conducted, it has included systematic monitoring of
employees and privacy-sensitive processing of personal data regarding the monitoring
of employees who change. The requirements for security are thus raised for it to be considered
have an appropriate level. Since guidelines are said to have been completely missing, IMY notes that
The emergency services have breached the requirement to ensure that personal data only
handled according to instructions from the personal data controller and that the requirement for appropriate
organizational measures to ensure a level of security that is appropriate i
relation to the risk is therefore not met. IMY therefore notes that
The rescue service has processed personal data in violation of article 32.1 and 32.4 i
data protection regulation.

Choice of intervention
Legal regulation
If there has been a breach of the data protection regulation, IMY has a number
corrective powers to be available according to Article 58.2 of the Data Protection Regulation.
The supervisory authority can, among other things, instruct the person in charge of personal data to ensure
that the processing takes place in accordance with the regulation and if required in a specific way
and within a specific period.
It follows from Article 58.2 of the data protection regulation that IMY in accordance with Article 83 shall
impose penalty charges in addition to or in lieu of other corrective measures which
referred to in Article 58(2), depending on the circumstances of each individual case.
For authorities, according to Article 83.7 of the Data Protection Ordinance, national rules may be specified
that authorities can impose administrative penalty fees. According to ch. 6 Section 2
the data protection act, penalty fees can be decided for authorities, but up to a maximum
SEK 5,000,000 alternatively SEK 10,000,000 depending on whether the violation concerns
articles covered by article 83.4 or 83.5 of the data protection regulation.
In Article 83.2, the factors to be taken into account in deciding whether an administrative
penalty fee must be imposed, but also what will affect the penalty fee
size. Of central importance to the assessment of the seriousness of the violation is its
nature, severity and duration. If it is a minor violation
may the supervisory authority, according to recital 148 of the data protection regulation, issue a reprimand
instead of imposing a penalty fee.
Penalty fee
The supervision IMY has carried out has shown that the Rescue Service has processed personal data
in violation of article 5.1 a and 5.1 c as well as article 32.1 and 4 of the data protection regulation.
When assessing whether the violations are so serious that an administrative
penalty fee is to be imposed if IMY has taken into account that the processing of personal data has intended
camera surveillance of dependent employees, in their everyday environment who have
including privacy-sensitive situations. The surveillance has taken place systematically during

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

15(17)

long time. The monitoring has meant that more information than necessary has been processed at the time
the part has taken place around the clock in real time, despite the fact that needs only exist in the event of an alarm, and
partly without any masking or demarcation having taken place of the surface where the employees
changes. The extent of the surveillance has been relatively large as it has been carried out around the clock
around in real time in the carriage hall at eight fire stations, which means that a not insignificant
number of registrants has been affected. Furthermore, it has not emerged that the Rescue Service,
during the time the camera surveillance has been in progress, in addition to a light indicating activated
microphone as well as some access restrictions, have taken some steps to reduce
the breach for the employees. IMY's assessment is that the treatment has not involved a
minor infraction. The violations must therefore lead to an administrative
penalty fee.
The provisions of the data protection regulation that the Rescue Service has violated
is covered by both Article 83.4 of the Data Protection Regulation and Article 83.5. The
the maximum amount for the penalty fee is according to article 83.4 and 83.5 and ch. 6 Section 2
second paragraph of the Data Protection Act SEK 5 million regarding the violations of article
32 and 10 million kroner regarding the violations of article 5.
The administrative penalty fee must be effective, proportionate and
deterrent. This means that the amount must be determined so that the administrative
the penalty fee leads to correction, that it provides a preventive effect and that it
in addition, is proportionate in relation to current violations as well as to
the supervised entity's ability to pay.
In determining an amount that is effective, proportionate and dissuasive may
IMY states that the Rescue Service has camera surveillance of employees who are in
dependent relationship to their employer, in a privacy-sensitive situation when changing to
alarm stand, which has meant that they have been systematically filmed in underwear or
subordinate at their workplace. The monitoring has been going on around the clock in real time even though
need has only been present in the event of an alarm. In these respects, the emergency services have not
have taken the necessary measures to limit the collection of data. The surveillance
has taken place systematically for a long time and included eight fire stations. It has been
the question of a relatively large number of people in the command center who have been able to take
part of the surveillance. Even if these have been authorized to take part in the surveillance have
there was a complete lack of guidelines and instructions for in which situations authorized persons have
had the right to access the camera surveillance. These circumstances are seen as
aggravating.
In the assessment, IMY has taken into account the Emergency Services' weighty need for
the camera surveillance and the requirement for efficiency that is incumbent on the Rescue Service, as well
the socially important task of preventing and limiting accidents and danger of accidents
damage to people, property or the environment where seconds and minutes can be
crucial. Consideration has also been given to the fact that the current rules only began to be applied in
May 2018. The examination has thus been limited to time thereafter. It has also emerged
that the camera surveillance has now ceased. The fact that the decision in the matter has dragged on for a long time lies
not the Rescue Service as a burden when assessing the violations.
After an overall assessment, IMY finds that the Directorate for Rescue Services Östra
Skaraborg must pay an administrative sanction fee of SEK 350,000, of which
SEK 300,000 refers to the violations of Article 5.1 a and 5.1 c respectively and SEK 50,000 refers to
the violations of article 32.1 and article 32.4 of the data protection regulation.

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

16(17)

This decision has been taken by the general manager Lena Lindgren Schelin after a presentation
by the lawyer Jenny Bård. In the final processing, the unit manager also has
Charlotte Waller Dahlberg and the lawyer Jeanette Bladh Gustafson participated. During
the proceedings have also been attended by the Chief Justice David Törngren.
Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2021-06-09 (This is an electronic signature)
Appendix
Information on payment of penalty fee
Copy to
The management of the Rescue Service Östra Skaraborg's data protection officer:
dataskyddsombud@skovde.se

The Swedish Privacy Protection Authority

Diary number: DI-2018-22697
Date: 2021-06-09

17(17)

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Privacy Agency. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting. The appeal shall
have been received by the Privacy Protection Authority no later than three weeks from the date of the decision
was announced. If the appeal has been received in time, send
The Privacy Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Privacy Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

