1/9

 File No.: PS/00008/2022

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On February 3, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against DOOR2DOOR
SPAIN, S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: PS/00008/2022

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Dated September 9, 2021, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, a resolution was issued in the sanctioning procedure
number PS/00196/2021, filed against DOOR2DOOR SPAIN, S.L. (hereinafter, the
claimed party). In said resolution, in addition to directing a warning, the
adoption of the following measures:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

“SECOND: REQUEST DOOR2DOOR SPAIN, S.L., with NIF B01782739, to
under the provisions of article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, so that within ten
working days from this act of notification proves before this body the adoption
of measures to provide information to the people whose personal data it collects,
in accordance with the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.”

SECOND: The resolution of the sanctioning procedure was notified
irrefutably on September 10, 2021 to the claimed party,
granting a period of ten working days for the adoption of the measures
imposed, as evidenced in the file.

THIRD: After the expiration of the indicated term without this Agency having
received any written on the measures implemented by the claimed party, it is
proceeded to request them again so that, within ten working days,
prove to this Agency that they have adopted the appropriate corrective measures, in
attention to what was agreed in the aforementioned Resolution.

This requirement was collected by the person in charge on October 5, 2021,
as stated in the Notific@ certificate in the file.

FOURTH: The respondent has not sent any response to this Agency that
certifies compliance with the imposed measures.

FIFTH: Against the aforementioned resolution requiring the adoption of measures not
There is no ordinary administrative appeal, due to the expiration of the deadlines
established for it. Likewise, the interested party has not stated his intention to
file a contentious-administrative appeal, nor is this Agency aware that
the same has been filed and a precautionary suspension of the
resolution.

SIXTH: According to the report collected from the AXESOR tool, the entity
DOOR2DOOR SPAIN, S.L. is a limited company incorporated in the year 2020, not
having information on their turnover.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD) recognizes each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

unfulfilled mandate

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the party claimed has failed to comply with the resolution of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in relation to the measures that are
they imposed.

Therefore, the events described in the "Events" section are deemed to constitute
an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 58.2.d) of the
GDPR, which provides the following:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

(…)

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”

III

Typification and qualification of the infraction

This infringement is typified in article 83.6 of the RGPD, which stipulates the following:

“Failure to comply with the resolutions of the control authority pursuant to article
58, paragraph 2, will be sanctioned in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article with
administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount.”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following conduct:

“m) Failure to comply with the resolutions issued by the authority for the protection of
competent data in exercise of the powers conferred by article 58.2 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

sanction proposal

According to the exposed facts, without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the
procedure, it is considered that it corresponds to impute a sanction to the party

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

claimed for the violation of article 58.2 of the RGPD typified in article 83.6
of the GDPR. The sanction that should be imposed is an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD. In
Consequently, the sanction to be imposed must be graduated according to the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 of the RGPD.

In the initial assessment, it can be seen that no extenuating circumstances or
aggravating.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, IT IS AGREED:

FIRST: START A SANCTION PROCEDURE AGAINST DOOR2DOOR SPAIN,
S.L., with NIF B01782739, for the infringement of article 58.2 of the RGPD, typified in the
art. 83.6 of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT A.A.A. and, as secretary, to B.B.B.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
sanctioning resolution by which the corrective measures are imposed and the subsequent
additional requirement to prove compliance with said resolution, as well as
as the certification of having practiced its notification.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

sanction that could correspond would be 1,000.00 euros, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to DOOR2DOOR SPAIN, S.L., with NIF
B01782739, granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
this initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 800.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 800.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 600.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (800.00 euros or 600.00 euros), you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

1232-120122

>>

SECOND: On February 16, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 600 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00008/2022, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to DOOR2DOOR SPAIN, S.L..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-240122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

