                                       

 
 
1 / 5 

 

TECHNICAL SURVEY 

 Preview of " An Analysis of Pre-installed Android 

Software and Risks for Users' Privacy", an  study by 

IMDEA NETWORKS and UC3M 

Authors: Julien Gamba (IMDEA Networks Institute), Mohammed Rashed (UC3M), 

Abbas Razaghpanah (Stony Brook University, USA), Juan Tapiador (UC3M) 

Narseo Vallina Rodriguez (IMDEA Networks Institute) 

 

be 

can 

and 

Privacy, 

In  this  technical  survey  an  insight  is  made  to  the  paper  An  Analysis  of 
Pre-installed  Android  Software  written  down  by  the  IAG  groups  of  the 
IMDEA  Networks  Institute  and  COSEC  of  the  Carlos  III  University  of 
Madrid  on  the  analysis  of  pre-installed  applications  (apps)  in  devices 
that use the Android operating system.  
The  study  will  be  published  in  the  next  41th  IEEE  Symposium  on 
Security 
found 
https://haystack.mobi/papers/preinstalledAndroidSW_preprint.pdf  Due 
to its implications in relation to personal data protection and privacy, it 
is  of  great  interest  to  the  Spanish  Data  Protection  Authority  (AEPD) 
and to all possible agents involved in the processing of personal data 
performed in mobile devices with Android operating system; both from 
the conception of digital products and services and throughout the life 
cycle of such products and services, with regard to the application of 
data  protection  principles  data  protection  by  design  and  data 
protection by default.  
AEPD  contributes  to  the  dissemination  of 
the  paper  which  is 
considered of general interest for the entire community involved in the 
development  and  distribution  of  such  devices,  services  and  products 
of the digital economy. In the end, this paper is expected to contribute 
to the establishment of guarantees for the effective application of the 
right to data protection of those whose data and personal information 
may be subject to processing. 
Moreover,  AEPD  expects 
the 
dissemination  of  scientific  work  related  to  the  processing  of  personal 
data  on  which  the  digital  economy  is  based  in  order  to  facilitate  the 
application  of  the  general  principles  of  the  RGPD  and  facilitate  the 
necessary prevention to guarantee the rights and freedoms of people, 
collaborating  with  technology  managers  and  professionals  to  the 
implementation of such principles, and at the same time promoting the 
scientific research in of data protection and privacy field.   
The  conclusions  set  out  in  the  paper  correspond  only  to  the  authors 

to  contribute  on 

the  whole 

to 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

                                       

 
 
2 / 5 

 

and are of a scientific nature without entering into legal considerations 
and  without  prejudice  to  possible  actions  that  may  arise  from  the 
powers and coherence framework established by the GDPR in relation 
to  possible  personal  data  processing  activities  that  may  exist  in  this 
environment. 

 

ANDROID 

The  open-source version of Android maintained by Google, known as Android 
Open Source Project (AOSP), is adapted by Android smart device manufacturers 
and  operators  in  the  telecommunications  industry  in  order  to  improve  the 
performance of their products and add functionality that provides added value and 
thus differentiate them in the market.  

Google  has  developed  a  program  that  defines  the  requirements  that  the 
modified operating system must meet to remain compatible with Google services 
[1] and maintain a public list of certified vendors [2].. 

As a result, currently all sellers of Android devices distribute their own modified 
versions  of  Android  in  which  they  also  include  software  (apps)  developed  by 
themselves or by third parties, among which are mobile operators, social networks 
or 
the  well-known  pre-installed 
applications on which the average user does not have the knowledge to uninstall 
or remove from the device and he is not able to technically verify the application of 
the data protection principles by default and by design. 

Internet  advertising  services.  These  are 

In  principle,  Android  implements  a  system  of  permissions  to  allow  the  user  to 
directly  control  the  access  of  the  apps  to  system  resources  (e.g.,  GPS)  and 
personal data (e.g., contact list) [7,8]. Android allows the user to control access to 
these  resources  during  the  installation  of  the  apps from Google  Play  (or  through 
the  configuration  of  the  system  once  installed).  However,  pre-installed  apps  run 
with privileged system permissions and without possibility, in most cases, of being 
uninstalled  from  the  system  in  a  simple  way.  This  gives  them  great  access 
privileges  to  protected  resources  for  pre-installed  software,  as  well  as  many 
limitations  for  users  to  exercise  its  control  over  it.  These  privileges  extend  to 
embedded  third-party  libraries  in  pre-installed  apps  for  advertising  and  user 
monitoring purposes.  

A priori, it shows a lack of transparency in the process by which an app is pre-
installed on a specific Android device. The general press has questioned several 
sellers  of  Android  devices 
introducing 
vulnerabilities, as well as the existence of non-transparent agreements with large 
Internet  advertising  companies  [3,4,5],  with  manufacturers  and  distributors  of 
these devices, such issue could be now ratified by this analysis. 

for  exhibiting  abusive  behaviour, 

The  absence  of  an  academic  and  systematic  analysis  on  the  risks  of  the 
software  pre-installed  on  Android  devices  has  motivated  the  execution  of  this 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

                                       

 
 
3 / 5 

 

study that comes to lay down the foundations for the improvement of the quality of 
these products and services that will ultimately result in the trust of the end user in 
them  thanks  to  the  guarantees  for  their  right  to  data  protection,  that  is,  data 
protection as a matter of trust in the services and products of the digital economy 
for citizens. 

RESEARCH AIMS AND METHODOLOGY 

The  efforts  of  the  research  team  represented  by  the  authors  have  focused 

mainly on shedding light on three axes of work:  

1.  To  identify  and  investigate  the  agents  present  in  pre-installed  software  on 
Android and that take advantage of privileged access to system resources 
to obtain users personal data at scale;  

2.  To reveal possible commercial agreements between  Android device sellers 
and  third  parties,  including  organizations  specialized  in  monitoring  and 
tracking users, and providing advertising resources in Internet; 

3.  To  detect  and  analyse  vulnerabilities  and  other  opaque  or  questionable 

practices. 

The  study  covers  more  than  82,000  pre-installed  apps  on  more  than  1,700 
Android devices manufactured by 214 brands. The samples have been obtained, 
with  the  informed  consent  of  the  interested  parties,  thanks  to  the  voluntary  and 
unselfish  collaboration  of  Android  users  distributed  all  over  the  world.  Next,  the 
obtained apps have been analysed by the research team with advanced software 
analysis  techniques.  More  than  91%  of  the  analysed  apps  are  not  publicly 
available on Google Play, including software developed by large companies.  

In addition, a fourth aspect has been analysed: 
4.  Transparency in the information provided to a user at the time of starting his 

mobile device in relation to the installation of apps and data collection. 

For this last aspect, six brand new Android devices from popular suppliers were 
purchased directly from a wholesaler and the information provided was analysed, 
as well as consent forms and terms of use shown to the user from the moment the 
device was initially powered on and, therefore, starting of the manufacturer's base 
configuration. 

RESEARCH RESULTS 

The main findings of the analysis are summarized in the following points: 
•  Apart  from  the  standard  permissions  defined  in  Android  and  under  user 
control,  more  than  4,845  permissions  owned  or  customized  by  vendors 
("custom  permissions")  and  exposed  by  pre-installed  apps  have  been 
identified. This type of permissions allows  apps published on Google Play 
to  bypass  the  Android  permission  model  to  access  user  data  without 
requiring its consent when installing a new app.  

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

                                       

 
 
4 / 5 

 

•  This permissions scheme is used by device developers, mobile operators, 
user  monitoring  and  advertising  services,  content  providers,  social 
networks, communication services, or industrial consortiums, among many 
other actors. 

•  About  the  types  of  organizations  responsible  for  the  development  of  pre-
installed apps, more than 1,200 companies have been identified, as well as 
the  presence  of  more  than  11,000  third-party  libraries  (SDKs)  included  in 
them  [6].  Most  of  the  libraries  are  related  to  online  advertising  and 
monitoring  services  for  commercial  purposes.  This  analysis  reveals  the 
existence  of  a  complex  ecosystem  of  developers  and  commercial 
agreements between firms for the monetization of mobile services.  

•  A  thorough  analysis  of  the  behaviour  of  the  50%  of  the  identified  apps 
reveals  that  a  significant  fraction  of  them  has  a  potentially  malicious  or 
unwanted  behaviour.  For  example,  some  user  monitoring  and  analytics 
services  combine  device  telemetry  with  other  information  such  as  user's 
geolocation, contacts, identities, emails and call history. It has been found, 
among others: 

•  Malware  samples  known  as  Xynyin,  SnowFox,  Rootkit,  Triada  y 

Ztorg;  

•  Generic  Trojans  that  allow  silent  installation  of  software  or  remote 

control of the device (rooted) 

•  Pre-installed  software  that  would  facilitate  potentially  fraudulent 
practices  through  the  sending  of  SMS  messages  to  premium 
numbers,  the  promotion  of  apps  to  attract  new  users  and  online 
advertising. 

•  About the  information provided  during  the  initialization  of  a new  device,  of 
the  six  Android  devices  studied,  in  three  of  them  no  privacy  policy  was 
found  except  for  the  Android  standard  terms  of  use.  The  remaining  three 
showed  a  privacy  policy  in  which  the  collection  of  data  for  analysis  is 
mentioned, but no information was found on whether this data is collected 
by third parties and on the specific purposes.   

PRELIMINARY CONCLUSIONS 

This  research  shows  that  the  open-source  Android  model  and  the  current 
monetization  model  of  mobile  devices  and  applications  enable  many  actors  to 
monitor and obtain personal information from users at the operating system level 
through pre-installed software.  

End user is not aware of the presence of such actors in their Android terminals 

and the implications that these practices have on their personal data protection.  

The mere presence  of  this  software  with  operating  system  privileges  makes  it 
difficult to remove it without being an expert user. On the other hand, the amount 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

                                       

 
 
5 / 5 

 

of existing permissions is far from what could be managed humanely and reveals 
a  deficit  of  transparency  in  the  applications  and  the  Android  operating  system 
itself, by only showing the user a partial permissions list which is far from the real 
one, thus limiting user decision-making ability to manage its personal information 
and exercise its right to data protection. 

From  this  study,  also  complex  commercial  relationships  between  actors  are 
deduced,  which  make  up  the  Android  monetization  ecosystem  and  the  online 
advertising industry. 

Finally, and in relation to the application of the principles of Data Protection by  
Design and by Default prescribed in the General Data Protection Regulation, it is 
essential  that  developers  and  mobile  device  sellers  know  this  circumstance  and 
apply said principles in order to offer the maximum guarantees of protection to its 
users. 

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES 

 
[1] Android Compatibility Program.  
https://source.android.com/compatibility/overview 
[2] Android Certificate Partners.  
https://www.android.com/certified/ 
[3] "Facebook Gave Device Makers Deep Access to Data on Users and 
Friends". New York Times, 2018.  
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/06/03/technology/facebookdevice- 
partners-users-friends-data.html. 
[4] "Oneplus device root exploit: Backdoor in engineermode app for 
diagnostics mode". Now Secure. 2017.  
https://www.nowsecure.com/blog/2017/11/14/oneplus-device-rootexploit- 
backdoor-engineermode-app-diagnostics-mode/ 
[5] "App Traps: How Cheap Smartphones Siphon User Data in 
Developing Countries". Wall Street Journal. 2018.  
https://www.wsj.com/articles/app-traps-how-cheap-smartphones-

helpthemselves- 

(2018). 

Communications  

to-user-data-1530788404. 
[6] Abbas Razagpanah, et. al. ,"Apps, trackers, privacy, and regulators:  
A  global  study  of  the  mobile  tracking  ecosystem".  In  Proceedings  of  NDSS 

[7] K.W. Au, et. al "Pscout: analyzing the android permission specification".  
In  Proceedings  of 

the  2012  ACM  Conference  on  Computer  and 

Security (2012), ACM, pp. 217–228. 
[8] Adrienne Porter-Felt, et al. "Android permissions demystified". In  
Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications  
Security (2011), ACM, pp. 627–638 
 

C/ Jorge Juan 6 
28001 - Madrid 

 
 

http://www.agpd.es 
https://sedeagpd.gob.es 

