1/6

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00131/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

In sanctioning procedure PS/00131/2019, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, to D. A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter "the person
claimed"), for alleged infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of Parliament
European and Council, of 04/27/2016, regarding the Protection of Natural Persons
regarding the Processing of Personal Data and the Free Circulation of
this Data (RGPD), and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 10/05/18, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection is urged to
carry out actions ex officio to the company that owns the website www.datalex.es,
in order to determine whether the processing of personal data carried out complies with
with the provisions of current regulations in relation to the processing of data
of a personal nature.
SECOND: On 10/08/18, the entity that manages the domain of the
website indicated, CORPORATE SOLUTIONS IP, S.L. (SCIP), to inform
this Agency on the owner of the datalex.es domain.
THIRD: On 10/20/18, the SCIP entity sends in writing to this AEPD,
indicating that the domain data datalex.es, which they have are: ID: AMM-280849”
is: A.A.A.; ***NIF.1 ***EMAIL.1; with address: ***ADDRESS.1. Discharge date:
12/05/16 and Expiration Date: 12/05/19. Registrar Agent: SCIP.
FOURTH: On 10/31/18, the requested person is required, so that, in the
within ten business days, inform the AEPD about: "the treatment that is carried out
with the data obtained from the existing form on the website
www.datalex.es, of which it is the owner; the channels you use to advertise the services
offered on said page, indicating in each of the cases, the origin of the
data of the recipients of the information; specification of the procedure by the
that is provided to the people who provide their data in the aforementioned form the
information referred to in art. 13 of the RGPD and specification of the use of
Cookies on the aforementioned page, indicating the procedure by which it is provided
information about them”.
FIFTH: According to the Certificate issued by the State Post and Telegraph Company,
 ***ADDRESS 1; with
S.A., said request was sent to the address:
recipient: D. A.A.A., being delivered on 11/20/18 at 18:39, by the employee
221108, and having Ms. B.B.B. as recipient. ***NIF.2.
SIXTH: Dated 04/02/19, not having received any type of information from
of the claimed person, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the defendant, by virtue of the powers
established in art. 58.2 of the RGPD and in articles 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD), for the infringement of article 83.5.e) of the RGPD and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

considered very serious in 72.1.m and ñ) of the LOPDGDD for prescription purposes,
setting an initial penalty of 3,000 euros (three thousand euros).
SEVENTH: Once the agreement to initiate sanctioning proceedings has been notified, the defendant,
In a document dated 04/17/19, it made, in summary, the following allegations:

“I.- Because the website www.datalex.es, being owned by me, has never
has offered any type of service, nor collected data from third parties or its own,
it has not been necessary to notify the AEPD, as no treatment has been carried out
of data.
II.- It is a non-operative page, being used as tests for the creation
new icons, contact form tests, network adhesion
social etc
III.- Datalex, is not an existing company, nor registered in any registry
public, since as I reiterate, it is a future society, currently non-existent.
IV.- At no time have data been collected or services offered to
third parties, because it is an offline page, being the contact form
non-collection of third-party data, withdrawn and not available on the web.
V.- Cookies are not used, neither their own nor those of third parties, because access to the
itself, is not operational, except on an occasional basis and for periods of time
minimum, to visualize how a certain plugin would look.
VI.- The Legal Notice used is a template written by me, in the form as
they say generic, not for the use of this website, adapted to the new RGPD and
modified in accordance with the new stipulations made by your
AGPD.
VII.- Reiterate that the nature of the website is not economic, not
having collected any third party data, and not having informed the
AEPD, due to the fact that it is solely for personal learning, it does not
having a profit motive, nor having been indexed, nor having any type of
information.
IX.- The notification made on 10/31/18 has not been received by me.
person, totally ignoring that information, being my character as
apprentice in this matter, collect everything necessary, for in the future when
the company described exists, provide them with all the information necessary to
comply with the provisions of the RGPD, as well as in the current LOPDDGG.

EIGHTH: On 05/13/19, the test practice period began,
remembering: a).- to consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the complaint filed
by the complainant and her documentation, the documents obtained and generated that
are part of file E/6948/2019 and b).- consider reproduced for purposes
evidence, the allegations to the initiation agreement of PS/131/2019, presented.

NINTH: On 06/11/19, the proposed resolution is notified, consisting of
that, by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, proceed
sanction the defendant with a warning, arguing essentially that:
“In the month of October 2018 it is observed that on the website www.datalex.es,
They offer adaptation services to the LOPD and the RGPD after registering the data
and includes an informative legend in the "Legal Notice" option, but does not

3/6

offers no further information on this. Website owner required
to inform this Agency, it ignores the request and is not
until he receives the initiation of the sanctioning file, with a sanction of 3,000
euros, when you send this Agency information clarifying the facts.
It has also been verified that, on 05/16/19, the investigated web page no longer
exists, appearing in its place the message, “This domain has been registered by
through the registrar agent MrDomain.com”.
All of the above may suppose an inflation to the RGPD, by not having provided this
Agency, in the period granted for it, the documents and information that is
they required. Information that was sent to this Agency when the
owner of the website the initiation of the sanctioning file. Failure to
this obligation involves the commission of the offense typified in art. 83.5.e) of
GDPR. However, noting that the owner of the aforementioned website is a person
physical, it meets the provisions of recital 148 of the RGPD for this
proposal".

TENTH: Once notified of the resolution proposal, the person claimed DOES NOT present
any type of allegations to it, within the period granted for this purpose.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure, of the information and
documentation presented, the following points have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

1º On 10/05/18, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection of the AEPD,
notes that the website www.datalex.es offers adaptation services to
the LOPD and the RGPD, and includes an informative legend in the “Legal Notice” option, but
it does not offer any additional information. It is a generic legend, where no
the owner's identification data is filled in, so they start
ex officio actions in this AEPD to determine if the processing of data
personal information that the company that owns the website makes when collecting them in
the form that appears, whether or not it complies with the provisions of current regulations.

2nd On 10/08/18, the entity that manages the domain of the page is required
website indicated, CORPORATE SOLUTIONS IP, S.L. (SCIP); to report to
this Agency on the owner of the datalex.es domain.

3º On 10/20/18, the SCIP entity informs that the owner of the domain datalex.es
correspond to D.A.A.A. ***NIF.1 (individual).

4º On 10/31/18, the owner of the page is required to, within ten
days, inform this Agency of the treatment that is carried out with the personal data that
obtains from the existing form on the web page and that specifies the use made
of Cookies.

5º The aforementioned requirement was notified on 11/20/18, at the Address:
***ADDRESS 1; address provided by the SCIP entity, signing the acknowledgment of receipt
Ms. B.B.B.. ***NIF.2, according to the Post Office certificate.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6º As this Agency does not receive any type of information, within the period granted
To this end, on 04/02/19, a sanctioning procedure was initiated against the owner of the
website indicated by inflation of art. 83.5.e) of the GDPR

7th When the claimed party is notified, at the address indicated above, of the
initiation of disciplinary proceedings, the latter, dated 02/17/19, sends a letter to this
Agency alleging, in essence, that: “datalex” is not a commercial company; No
is registered anywhere; that said web page is a test page
where no personal data or of any kind is collected, not using cookies.

8º On 05/16/18 it is verified that the website www.datalex.es no longer exists
and that instead a message appears, “This domain has been registered through
of the registrar agent MrDomain.com”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case.".

The joint assessment of the documentary evidence in the procedure brings to
knowledge of the AEPD a vision of the actions of the requested person, who has
reflected in the facts declared proven.

In the present case, although the owner of the website, datalex.es, was required to
to inform this Agency about the treatment that was carried out with the data
information that he allegedly obtained from the existing form on said page and that
specified the use made of cookies, it ignored said
requirement, for which a sanctioning procedure was initiated for inflation of art.
83.5.e) of the GDPR.

However, upon being notified of the initiation of sanction proceedings, the person
claimed sent a letter to this Agency informing of the characteristics of the
page, alleging in essence that said web page did not belong to any company
trade; was not registered anywhere and that it was a test page to
name of a natural person.

In addition, during the sanctioning procedure it has been verified on several occasions
that the website in question, www.datalex.es, no longer exists and that instead

5/6

The message appears: "This domain has been registered through the agent
registrar MrDomain.com”.

III

All of the above could entail a violation of the RGPD, by not having provided this
Agency, in the period granted for it, the documents and information that is
they required. Information that was sent to this Agency when the
owner of the website the initiation of the sanctioning file. Failure to
this obligation involves the commission of the offense typified in art. 83.5.e) of
GDPR.

However, noting that the owner of the aforementioned website is a natural person and
that the website in question no longer exists as of today, it complies with the provisions
in recital 148 of the RGPD, where it indicates that: “In order to reinforce the application of
the rules of this Regulation, any infraction of this must be punished
with sanctions, including administrative fines, in addition to measures
measures imposed by the supervisory authority under this Regulation, or
in place of these. In the case of a minor offence, or if the fine that is likely to be
imposed would constitute a disproportionate burden on a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance. The imposition of
sanctions, including administrative fines, must be subject to guarantees
sufficient procedural requirements in accordance with the general principles of Union Law and
of the Charter, including the right to effective judicial protection and to a process with all
the guarantees”, the following is issued

In view of the aforementioned precepts and others of general application, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

HE REMEMBERS:

NOTICE: to D. A.A.A. for the infringement of art. 83.5.e) RGPD, by not having provided
to this Agency, in the period granted for it, the documents and information
that were required, being punishable in accordance with art. 58.2 GDPR.

NOTIFY: this Agreement to D.A.A.A..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

