

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Processing of personal data of published owners of industrial rights (UOOU-04099/19)
Company


The subject of the inspection was compliance with the obligations set for the inspected person by the General Regulation and Act No. 110/2019 Coll., on the processing of personal data, in connection with the processing of personal data of owners of industrial rights - natural persons, listed in the registers of industrial rights. The inspection was initiated on the basis of an initiative from the Industrial Property Office. The inspected person unauthorizedly submits invoices to persons published by the patent office for the publication of their patents on an unspecified list of patents. The inspected person did not cooperate with the inspectors, nor did he respond to the emergency calls, and therefore an "order" was issued on August 26, 2020 ordering him to pay a fine of CZK 80,000 in accordance with Section 35 letter b) of Act No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for offenses and their proceedings, in accordance with ยง 15 paragraph 2 of Act No. 255/2012 Coll., inspection regulations, for violation of the obligation set out in ยง 10 paragraph 2 of Act No. 255/2012 Coll., i.e. the obligation to create the conditions for the performance of the inspection, to enable the inspector to exercise his powers established by law and to provide the necessary cooperation for this. therefore, the matter was handed over to the customs office for enforcement. The inspection was concluded with the inspection protocol dated October 14, 2020 stating that the inspected person did not respond to the Office's repeated calls for cooperation, neither in the pre-inspection nor in the inspection itself, for which a sanction was imposed on him and therefore failed check to prove whether the controlled person has a legitimate legal title that would authorize him to send unsolicited business offers to addressees (data subjects). Due to the non-cooperation of the controlled person, the assessment of compliance with other obligations set for the controlled person by general regulation was pointless. The controlled person did not file any objections to the control findings .

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2020 > Inspection activities in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Other > Processing of personal data of published owners of industrial rights (UOOU-04099/ 19) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



