 

 

1/9

Litigation Chamber

Decision on the merits 177/2022 of 2 December 2022

File number: DOS-2021-04789

Subject: Complaint for communication of personal data to a third party

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, composed of Mr Hielke

Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Dirk Van Der Kelen and Jelle Stassijns, members;

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and

to the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the

data protection), hereinafter "GDPR";

Considering the law of December 3, 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter

"LCA";

Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on

December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

Considering the documents in the file;

Made the following decision regarding:

The complainant :

Mr. X, hereinafter "the plaintiff";

The defendant: Y, hereinafter "the defendant"

 

 

Decision on the merits 177/2022 - 2/9

I. Facts and procedure

1.

On June 20, 2021, the complainant filed a complaint with the Data Protection Authority

against the defendant.

The subject of the complaint concerns the processing of personal data by

Mr Z, an employee of the De Veldmuis vaccination center in (...) (hereinafter referred to as

the "vaccination center"). During an incident in the parking lot of the vaccination center

between the complainant as a visitor to the center and the parking attendant as

employee of the center, the parking attendant requested the complainant's data from

of reception. Subsequently, the parking attendant transmitted this personal data to

the complainant's employer to inform them of the incident. This communication gave

led to the complainant's dismissal from his position as a volunteer firefighter with the city of

(...). Following this, the plaintiff lodged a complaint with the city of (...). This complaint was

declared inadmissible and returned to the defendant. Given that the complainant did not receive

no response from the defendant, he lodged the present complaint with

the Data Protection Authority (DPA).

2.

On August 13, 2021, the complaint was declared admissible by the Front Line Service on the

basis of Articles 58 and 60 of the LCA and the complaint is forwarded to the Litigation Chamber

under article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

3.

On September 2, 2021, in accordance with Article 96, § 1 of the LCA, the Chamber's request

Litigation to proceed with an investigation is forwarded to the Inspection Service, as well

as the complaint and the inventory of parts.

4.

On January 6, 2022, the investigation by the Inspection Service is closed, the report is attached to the

file and it is transmitted by the Inspector General to the President of the Chamber

Litigation (art. 91, § 1 and § 2 of the LCA).

The report contains findings regarding the subject matter of the complaint and concludes that it is

question of a violation of Article 5, paragraphs 1 and 2, of Article 6, paragraph 1, of

Article 24(1) and Article 25(1) GDPR.

The report also contains findings that go beyond the scope of the complaint.

The Inspection Service generally notes that it is a question of a breach of

Article 38 and Article 24(1) GDPR.

5.

On January 14, 2022, the Litigation Chamber decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and

article 98 of the LCA, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

6.

On January 14, 2022, the parties concerned are informed by e-mail of the provisions such

as set out in article 95, § 2 as well as in article 98 of the LCA. The parties concerned are

Decision on the merits 177/2022 - 3/9

also informed, pursuant to Article 99 of the LCA, of the deadlines for transmitting their

conclusions.

For findings relating to the subject of the complaint, the deadline for receipt of

conclusions in response of the defendant was set for February 25, 2022, that for the

conclusions in reply of the complainant on March 18, 2022 and finally that for the conclusions in

respondent's reply dated April 8, 2022.

For findings going beyond the subject matter of the complaint, the deadline for

receipt of the defendant's submissions in response was set for February 25, 2022.

7.

On January 14, 2022, the defendant accepts all communications relating to the case by

electronic way.

8.

On January 15, 2022, the plaintiff accepts all communications relating to the case by way of

electronic.

9.

On January 17, 2022, the defendant requests a copy of the file (art. 95, § 2, 3° of the LCA),

which was transmitted to him on January 18, 2022.

10. On February 25, 2022, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in response from the

defendant regarding the findings relating to the subject-matter of the complaint. These findings

also include the defendant's reaction to the findings

carried out by the Inspection Service outside the framework of the complaint. First of all, the

defendant objects that it does not act as data controller for the

treatment that is the subject of the complaint. Next, the defendant argues that on the basis of the

inspection report, it cannot be said that personal data has been

processed. Finally, the defendant argues that the employees of the vaccination center

been informed of the GDPR obligations. Regarding findings outside

of the context of the complaint, the defendant points out that there is indeed a settlement

administrative between the defendant and the data protection officer who defines the

function of the delegate. The Data Protection Officer is part of a team of

data protection officers in which each acts as an assistant to the

the other in case of absence to ensure continuity. The defendant asserts that the

plaintiff first approached the city of (...) and not the defendant itself. The complaint

was declared inadmissible by the city of (...) but the complainant would not have been informed.

The complaint was then transmitted to the defendant but the latter did not deal with it further.

because she considered that the complaint did not fall within her competence and that she had already been

processed.

11. On April 7, 2022, the Litigation Chamber receives the complainant's submissions in reply, in

with regard to the findings relating to the subject matter of the complaint. First, the plaintiff

objects that the defendant's submissions were not sent to it in time

Decision on the merits 177/2022 - 4/9

timely. The deadline for the simultaneous transmission of the conclusions was set for

February 25, 2022. The Complainant did not receive them until March 2, 2022. Then the Complainant claims

that personal data has indeed been processed. The complainant considers

also that the defendant shifts its responsibilities to other parties by asserting

that it does not act as controller. Concerning the

assertions of the defendant relating to the complaint lodged with the city of (...), the

complainant maintains that these are inaccurate. He was indeed informed of the

non-admissibility of the complaint by the city of (...). The complaint to the city of (...) then

was forwarded to the defendant. On May 8, 2021, the complainant received a letter from the

defendant indicating that he would be informed of the follow-up to the complaint, but this did not take place.

12. On April 8, 2022, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in response from the

defendant. First, the defendant would like to apologize for the

complainant since the latter was not informed of the outcome of the investigation by

aforementioned admissibility. Finally, the defendant again wishes to point out that for

the operation of the vaccination center, the city (…) intervenes jointly with the

defendant as "subcontractor". The Flemish Health and Care Agency of the Authority

flamande intervenes here as "responsible for processing" according to the defendant.

II. Motivation

II.1. Identity of the controller

13. The treatment complained of in this case by the complainant is the communication of his

personal data by the guard of the parking lot of the vaccination center in the city

of (…), where the complainant worked as a volunteer firefighter.

This communication took place during an alleged incident in the parking lot.

14. The Litigation Chamber refers to Article 4(2) of the GDPR which defines ‘processing’ as

follows: "any operation or set of operations whether or not carried out using processes

automated and applied to personal data or sets of data

personnel, such as collecting, recording, organizing, structuring,

storage, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use,

communication by transmission, broadcast or any other form of making available, the

reconciliation or

interconnection,

there

limitation,

deletion or

the destruction".

The communication of personal data by the parking attendant must therefore

qualify as processing within the meaning of Article 4(2) of the GDPR.

15. The question then arises as to who should be identified as responsible for the

treatment for this treatment.

16. In accordance with Article 4.7) of the GDPR, it is to be considered responsible for the

processing: "the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other

Decision on the merits 177/2022 - 5/9

body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the

treatment." In his complaint, the complainant indicates that he does not know who is responsible for the

treatment and that he could not find his identity in the communication of the

defendant. The complainant states that he presumes that the data controller is the

coordinator of the vaccination center and therefore mentions in his complaint the data of

the defendant. The Litigation Chamber is aware of the fact that it is not always

obvious for the complainant to determine precisely who is acting as

controller. It is therefore up to the Litigation Chamber to determine, by

through an investigation by the Inspection Service or not, who must be qualified as responsible

treatment

17. The Court of Justice has on several occasions interpreted the concept of "controller"

broadly in its case law in order to ensure effective and comprehensive protection

of the persons concerned1.

18. In accordance with Guidelines 07/2020 concerning the notions of responsible for the

processor and processor in the GDPR of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB or

European Data Protection Board), the quality of the controller(s) of the

treatment concerned must be the subject of a concrete assessment2. According to the Court of Justice,

when assessing the level of responsibility, consideration should be given to all

relevant circumstances of the case3.

19. During the inspection investigation, the defendant maintained that it was not responsible

treatment for this disputed treatment. As part of the organization of the center

vaccination, the defendant refers to the subcontract which was concluded between

the Flemish Care and Health Agency on the one hand and the defendant and the city of (…) on the other hand.

This subcontracting agreement applies to subcontractors who, in the context of the execution

of the mission of the Flemish Care and Health Agency, will process personal data

staff in the context of the operation of the vaccination centre. In this contract of

subcontracting, the Flemish Care and Health Agency is designated as responsible for the

treatment and the defendant and the city of (…) both as subcontractors

(within the meaning of Article 4.8) of the GDPR) with regard to the organization and functioning of the

vaccination center.

 

1 See in particular CJEU, 5 June 2018, C-210/16 - Wirtschaftsakademie Schleswig-Holstein, ECLI:EU:C:2018:388,
recitals 27-29.
2 See EDPB, Guidelines 07/2020 concerning the notions of controller and processor in the
GDPR, July 7, 2021, as specified by the DPA in a note "Update on the notions of data controller /
subcontractor with regard to Regulation (EU) n°2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of personal data (GDPR) and some applications specific to the liberal professions such as
than lawyers".
3 CJEU, judgment of 29 July 2019, Fashion ID, C-40/17, ECLI:EU:C:2019:629, par. 70.

Decision on the merits 177/2022 - 6/9

20. First of all, and referring to the subcontract mentioned above,

the Flemish Care and Health Agency must be identified as the controller

for activities falling within the scope of this subcontract, namely

the processing of personal data in the context of the operation of the center

vaccination.

21. The question therefore arises whether the disputed processing, that is to say the communication

personal data of the complainant by the parking attendant to the employer of the

complainant in connection with the notification of an alleged incident that occurred in the car park of the

vaccination center, falls within the scope of the subcontract.

The Inspection Service concludes in its inspection report that this is not the case.

22.

It does not appear from the file that the disputed processing was part of the good

operation of the vaccination center. The Litigation Chamber points out that the

defendant asserts in its submissions that the parking warden wanted to find out

with the reception to find out if other incidents involving the complainant had not been

place. According to the defendant, this would be part of the guarantee of the security of

visitors to the vaccination center. The Litigation Division considers, however, that if there were

had a concrete threat to the safety of visitors - which does not appear from the file -,

more effective actions existed, such as questioning the security guard present

or the vaccination center coordinator.

23.

It appears from the file that the complainant went to the vaccination center on April 16, 2021;

date the alleged incident occurred in the parking lot. The e-mail of the parking attendant

sent on this subject to the complainant’s employer dated 19 April 2021. The Chamber

Litigation points out that sending an email regarding a security incident

alleged 3 days after the alleged incident cannot be considered an act

guaranteeing the safety of visitors, especially since the complainant is a visitor to the

vaccination center and therefore, that after this alleged incident, he would no longer have been present, the

if necessary, only sporadically at or near the vaccination center, for

example for possible complementary vaccines. If the safety of visitors to the center of

vaccination was compromised in a less urgent manner, the parking attendant could

simply ask a collaborator within the vaccination center to monitor,

without the complainant's personal data having to be requested or

transmitted to the city of (…).

24. Nor do the conclusions or the other documents in the file allow us to assert that

the complainant was present for his vaccination for the firefighters (for example during a

priority period because of the essential job as a volunteer firefighter), nor that the

plaintiff could be associated at any time with the city of (…). This emerges

also from the email in question from April 19, 2021 in which the parking attendant indicates

Decision on the merits 177/2022 - 7/9

himself that he did not recognize the complainant and therefore did not know that the complainant was

volunteer firefighter only after having requested his personal data from a

receptionist.

25. In view of the foregoing and in accordance with the findings of the Inspection Service, the Chamber

Litigation comes to the conclusion that the disputed processing does not fall within the scope

the general operation of the vaccination center and therefore took place outside the field

application of the subcontract. Therefore, the Flemish Care and Health Agency does not

cannot be qualified as a data controller in this case.

26. Next, the Litigation Division will examine whether the defendant should be considered

as the data controller for the disputed processing. In this context, the Chamber

Litigation refers to the aforementioned subcontract in which both the city of

(…) that the defendant intervenes as subcontractors within the framework of

the organization of the vaccination center. In its pleadings, the defendant asserts at this

subject that it is responsible for the planning and organization of the medical staff and that the

city of (…) the east for non-medical personnel, such as the guards of the parking lot of the center of

vaccination.

27. The Litigation Chamber notes that Mr. Z is an employee of the city of (…) and

that in this capacity, he was present as guard of the parking lot of the vaccination center,

and is therefore part of the non-medical staff. Under the aforementioned subcontracting agreement,

the city of (…) must ensure that personal data is exclusively

treated in

within the scope of the subcontract.

Subcontractors also guarantee that their employees are informed of the

applicable data protection obligations, as stipulated in the contract

of subcontracting. In this case, it is Mr. Z, as parking attendant, who is

responsible for the various assessments and the various choices he has made, including the treatments

related data. The Litigation Chamber points out that Mr Z decided to

notify this alleged incident in the parking lot to the complainant's employer. Besides,

Mr. Z also notifies

the alleged incident using his email address

professional of the city of (…). Therefore, the defendant cannot be

considered to be the data controller for the disputed processing. Bedroom

Litigation draws attention to the fact that neither the inspection report nor the exhibits of the

record does not make it possible to determine who, in the context of this complaint, should be

designated as data controller given that neither the city of (…), nor Mr. Z

were involved in this procedure with a view to identifying the person responsible for the

treatment.

28. In short: the Litigation Division concludes that the defendant has determined neither de jure nor

de facto the purposes and means of the processing of personal data concerned.

Decision on the merits 177/2022 - 8/9

The Litigation Division therefore considers that in the context of this complaint, the

respondent cannot be qualified as a controller within the meaning of Article 4(7)

of the GDPR. However, this does not exclude that a complaint relating to these facts may be filed with

against another controller.

29. Consequently, the Litigation Chamber does not accept the complaint and the findings of the

Inspection service that followed, established within and outside the complaint.

The Litigation Chamber therefore decides to proceed with a classification without further action on the grounds

technical in accordance with its discontinued policy4.

 

III. Publication of the decision

30. Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber

Litigation, this decision is published on the website of the Protection Authority

Datas. However, it is not necessary for this purpose that the identification data

of the parties are communicated directly.

FOR THESE REASONS,

the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation

to close the complaint without further action, pursuant to Article 100, § 1, 1° of the LCA.

 

 

Pursuant to Article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed to the

Court of Markets (Brussels Court of Appeal) within thirty days of its

notification, with the Data Protection Authority as defendant.

 

This recourse can be introduced by means of a contradictory request which must repeat the

particulars listed in article 1034ter of the Judicial Code5. The contradictory request must be

 

of

4 See also Decision 117/2021 of October 22, 2021 and the Chamber's Dismissal Policy
Litigation
:
https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publications/politique-de-classement-sans-suite-de-la-chambre-
litigation.pdf.
5 "The request contains on pain of nullity:

available

the address

next

heading

2021,

3.1.A,

June

18

To

the indication of the day, month and year;

1°
2° the surname, first name, domicile of the applicant, as well as, where applicable, his qualities and his national register number or

Business Number ;

3° the surname, first name, domicile and, where applicable, the capacity of the person to be summoned;
4° the object and the summary statement of the means of the request;
5° the indication of the judge who is seized of the application;
6° the signature of the applicant or his lawyer."

filed with the registry of the Markets Court in accordance with article 1034quinquies of the Code

court6, or via the e-Deposit computer system of Justice (article 32ter of the Judicial Code).

Decision on the merits 177/2022 - 9/9

 

 

 

(Sr.) Hielke HIJMANS

President of the Litigation Chamber

6 "The request, accompanied by its appendix, is sent, in as many copies as there are parties involved, by letter
recommended to the clerk of the court or filed with the registry."

 

