
State commissioner promotes safe handling of digital media in schools
Campaign for Safer Internet Day




The Lower Saxony State Commissioner for Data Protection (LfD) is supporting the “Data Protection Goes to School” initiative on this year’s “Safer Internet Day” on February 5th. LfD employees will visit schools throughout Lower Saxony in the coming week. The aim is to sensitize the around 800 young people taking part to the safe and conscious use of the internet and social media.

Data protection authorities work together nationwide
The campaign is part of a cooperation between four data protection supervisory authorities and the professional association of data protection officers in Germany (BvD) e.V., which launched the initiative in 2009. In addition to the LfD, the supervisory authorities of Baden-Württemberg, Bavaria and Rhineland-Palatinate offer teaching units at the schools in their respective federal states.
"Children and young people in particular spend a lot of time on the Internet and social media every day," says Lower Saxony's state data protection officer, Barbara Thiel. "It is therefore extremely important to educate them about the associated risks and to sensitize them to the topic of data protection."

Lectures from Osnabrück to Helmstedt
The employees of the LfD Niedersachsen will visit nine schools between February 4th and 8th - including in Lüneburg, Osnabrück, Helmstedt, Göttingen and the Hanover region. They will reach around 800 pupils in the seventh and eighth grades. "I am very pleased that the schools have accepted our offer so well," says Barbara Thiel. "We are thus making a substantial contribution to data protection for young people."
In their presentations, the employees use the BvD material from "Data protection goes to school". Its further development was supported in terms of content by the EU initiative klicksafe and financially by the DATEV Foundation Future.

Safe surfing enables independent decisions
"The cooperation with the four supervisory authorities helps us to reach many more adolescents on the subject of data protection," says the spokesman for the BvD initiative, Rudi Kramer. Surfing the web safely is a basic requirement for being able to make your own decisions online independently and consciously.
For teachers who want to deal with aspects of data protection in class themselves, the third edition of the teacher handbook "Data protection goes to school" has been available since November 2018. The materials can be downloaded free of charge from http://www.bvdnet.de/datenschutz-geht-zur-schule.
The EU initiative klicksafe is organizing Safer Internet Day this year on February 5th. This time it has the motto "Together for a better internet" and uses the hashtag #lauteralshass to combat hate online. The Safer Internet Day has been held annually since 2004 on the initiative of the European Commission.





Press release as PDF download







The State Commissioner for Data Protection Lower Saxony
Prinzenstrasse 5
30159 Hanover


phone
0511 120-4500


fax
0511 120-4599


Write an e-mail to the contact person




