
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    09/25/2019
                                Event "Artificial Intelligence and the Consequences for Economy, Research, Work and Society" on September 17, 2019 - a complete success! "Artificial Intelligence and the Consequences for Economy, Research, Work and Society" at the Ernst Bloch Center in Ludwigshafen. Invited to the podium were representatives of the Enquête Commission "Artificial Intelligence - Social Responsibility and Economic, Social and Ecological Potential" of the German Bundestag Lena-Sophie Müller, Dr. Petra Sitte (The Left), Dr. Anna Christmann (Bündnis 90/Die Grünen) and Professor Doris Aschenbrenner from the Technical University of Delft (NL).
                
                        
                                                               ;
                                ©
                                LfDIAfter an initial presentation by the LfDI Baden-Württemberg Dr. Brink and the LfDI Rhineland-Palatinate Prof. Dr. Kugelmann, there was an extremely constructive discussion by the podium participants about the change of AI on society. First, a distinction was made between "weak AI" and "strong AI": while "weak AI" is limited to less complex functions and is found, for example, in speech computers, "strong AI", which can decide on complex problem solutions, is not yet at all part of our society. The importance of ethics in the discussion about AI was emphasized and stressed that privacy was finally a cultural achievement of the Enlightenment to be respected. Therefore, one should inter alia take early action against the dangers of strong AI. On the one hand, the benefits of AI to society were highlighted, such as that one could increasingly use AI for rule-based processes, such as sorting documents; on the other hand, it was criticized that society was not sufficiently educated about the dangers, background and possible interventions in digitization and AI. The introduction of courses on AI in schools and educational leave for digitization were presented as sensible solutions. The audience was recently involved in the discussion and provided valuable impulses, such as the development of a European initiative in the field of AI. AI is a journey into the unknown and therefore the explainability in AI is of particular importance.Prof. dr Kugelmann states: “Applications of AI are inevitably advantageous for an increasingly globalized society and are already firmly established there. However, achievements such as data protection should not be neglected in times of globalization and digitization and AI systems should be equipped accordingly in accordance with data protection. Ultimately, AI systems are becoming increasingly accessible to an ever younger audience. That's why I see it as my task to give young people in particular an awareness of data protection."
                                return
                            



