 
 
 

GREEK EMPIRE
 

 

PRINCIPLE OF PROTECTION OF E OMEN
 

 

 

OF A PERSONAL CHARACTER
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Athens, 09-11-2018
 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/8841/09-11-2018
 

 

 

A P O F A S I NO. 66/2018
 

    

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met in composition
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Department at its headquarters on Wednesday 7 November 2018 following an invitation from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Its President, in order to examine the case mentioned in its history
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

present. Georgios Batzalexis, Deputy President, was present
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the President of the Authority, Constantos Menoudakos, the regular member of the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Constant Lamprinoudakis and the alternate members Panagiotis Rontogiannis as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and Grigorios Tsolias to replace regular members Antonios Symvonis
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Charalambou Anthopoulos, who, although only summoned in writing, did not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

attended due to obstruction. The meeting was attended, by order of the President, o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Georgios Rousopoulos, specialist scientist - auditor as assistant rapporteur. Also,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

also attended, by order of the President, Irini Papageorgopoulou, an employee of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Administrative Department of the Authority, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Submitted to the Authority no. prot. G/EIS/4232/29-05-2018 his complaint
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. According to it, the complainant received on 24/5/2018 a message from "Pitsoulakis -
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Robogiannakis O.E." (hereinafter our controller), through the Viber application, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

who stated that the company thanked him for his consent and that he would continue to do so
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informs him about special offers, technological news, events and competitions. THE
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-3 Kifis St., 11523 Athens, Tel.: 210-6475600, Fax: 210-6475628, contact@dpa.gr, www.dpa.gr
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainant states that there was no consent for the collection of his number either
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to continue sending messages. The Authority with the no. prot. G/EX/4232-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1/25-06-2018 she sent a copy of her complaint to the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

let's process, the one who submitted his views with the no. prot. C/EIS/20-07-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his document.
  

 

With this document, the data controller asserts, in summary, that
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainant incorrectly states that there was no consent to the collection of the number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of him, as he provided his phone number to the company, in the box
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

previous transactions and that he received his consent for the shipment
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

advertising messages through the 4-step process of the application "Viber
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Business", which procedure ensures the conditions of legality. The one in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

edit let's say that for sending messages through the Viber application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the provision of no. 11 par. 3 of Law 3471/2006, which gives him the possibility,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

under conditions, to send advertising messages to its customers.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file, after listening to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rapporteur and the clarifications of the assistant rapporteur, who left after the debate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and before conference and decision making, and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

1. Article 2 of Law 2472/1997 defines that "personal data" yes
 

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"any information referred to the data subject". "Subject to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of data" and yes "the natural person to whom the data refers, and to whom
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the identity is known or can be ascertained, i.e. can be determined
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

directly or indirectly, ie based on an identity number or based on one or more
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of specific elements that characterize its condition from a physical point of view,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

biological, mental, economic, cultural, political or social". In this context, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A natural person's telephone number is personal data, since it can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

function as a means of indirect identification of its owner, allowing the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contact him. It is also pointed out that, in accordance with Opinion 4/2007 of the group
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

work of article 29 of the E.U. about the concept of personal data, especially
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

during the operation of electronic services, as an indirect identification element, they can
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sufficiently in some cases to distinguish one person from others in the context of one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a specific set, even if its name has not been pronounced.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2

According to article 2 par. g) Law 2472/1997, as "responsible for processing", any
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

natural or legal person who determines the purpose and manner of their processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

personal data. Corresponding definition for both personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character as well as for the person in charge of processing are also provided for in article 4 par. 1 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- GDPR) which has been in force since 25/5/2018.
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. Article 5 of Law 2472/1997 provides that the processing of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character is allowed only when the data subject has given the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his consent (par. 1) and by exception without consent, when "it is absolutely
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

necessary for the sufficient pressure of the interests that he pursues responsibly
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing or third party or third parties where the data are processed and under
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

provided that this clearly overrides the rights and interests of the persons in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the data are mentioned and their fundamental freedoms are not affected" (par. 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

section e'). Accordingly, in article 6 par. 1 of the GDPR are provided as conditions for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent of a processing is the consent of the data subject for a or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more specific purposes (sec. a') and its superior legal interest
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data controller (section f).
  

 

 

 

3. In article 2 paragraph k' of Law 2472/1997 it is defined as the subject's consent
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the data "every free, express and specific declaration of will, expressed in a way
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

clear, and in full knowledge, and with the pia, of the text of the data, from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

previously informed, agrees to process the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of a personal nature...'. A similar definition is found in article 4
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

par. 11 of the GDPR, while article 7 of the Regulation in question defines additional
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligations for consent, such as for example that when "the consent of y
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject to the data provided in the context of a written statement the above and other
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subjects, the request for consent shall be submitted in such a way as to be clearly distinguishable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the other issues" (par. 2).
 

 

 

 

 

 

4. Article 3 of Law 3471/2006 stipulates that the scope of application of the law in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

includes "the processing of personal data and the safeguarding of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

privacy of information, in the context of the provision of available services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of electronic communications on public electronic communications networks'. On the side
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this, when the processing consists of direct commercial promotion of products and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services for advertising purposes by sending electronic messages
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mail (including SMS) through electronic services
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
3

of communications in public electronic communications networks, is applicable
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

more specific article 11 of Law 3471/2006 on the protection of personal data in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic communications In particular, according to par. 1 of the above article, "h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

use of automatic dialing systems, in particular using teleprinters
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(fax) or e-mail, and in general the processing of unsolicited
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of communication by means of electronic communication without human intervention,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for direct practical promotion of products or services and for any kind
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

advertising materials, permitted only if the contributor consents in advance
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

expressly". The Authority with Guide a 2/2011 on electronic consent describes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in detail the conditions and ways of legally obtaining consent with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

electronic means for the purposes of the above provision. Unique experience in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

obligation to obtain prior consent was, in accordance with par. 3 of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

article, the case when the contact details by e-mail
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

legally acquired, in connection with the sale of products or services or otherwise
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

transaction and are used for the direct promotion of similar products or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services of the supplier or to serve similar purposes and so on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conditions set by the specific paragraph.
 

 

 

 

 

 

5. To send an advertising message through the Viber application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The phone number is being processed. Sending such messages,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at the time of sending the complained message it was regulated by law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997 while after 25/5/2018 it falls within the scope of the Regulation (EU)
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR) and not on the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

implementation of Law 3471/2006. And this because the "Viber" application was its "service
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information sharing"1 and not a public electronic communications service
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d chain of electronic communications. Therefore, the examination of the legality of his mission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

said message must be made based on the provisions of Law 2472/1997, while the following
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25/5/2018 observance and use of the telephone number for advertising purposes and the validity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

any consent of the data subject is held based on its provisions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR. In particular, the legality of said processing can be relied upon
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

consent of the subject of our processing in the best legal interest of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data controller. Especially for the last case, in order to judge that the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing is necessary for the purposes of the legal interests pursued by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                 
1 See also article 4 par. 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
 

responsible for our processing and to ensure the rights of their subjects
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, taking into account that the sending of these messages resembles the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

send SMS messages to public telephone networks, yes they must be met
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at least the two conditions with those described in no. 11 par. 3 of n.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3471/2006.
  

6. In this case, it follows from the evidence of the case file that o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainant has in the past dealt with our data controller, on its side
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

so he gave him his cell phone number. However, its subject
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our processor (and controller's client) was not informed during the granting stage
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his telephone number for the further uses of this number and also for the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the fact that the number would be used to promote products and services.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, the acceptance within the "viber" application of receiving messages from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our data controller, through the use of our "viber business" service, cannot
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

was considered as consent, as it did not meet the criteria of consent as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are described in article 2 paragraph k' of Law 2472/1997 (but not in article 4 paragraph 11 of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GDPR). And this is because it appears that the subject of the data, during the collection of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data, he has not been properly informed about the purpose of our processing, i.e
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

promotion of the company's products and services, while not during his mission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

message, the purpose of this mission is sufficiently specified, if for example yes
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to serve the customer relationship or to send advertisements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

messages. Therefore, the use of the four-step process, as described in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

note from our processor, does not guarantee the legality of the original use
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(collection) of the telephone number, when it was not properly updated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data subject for the purposes of our processing.
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7. Consequently, a violation of Law 2472/1997 is established due to the processing of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

customer phone number to send a message through the online application
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"viber", without proper notification of the recipient, infringement which occurred in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

time during which the GDPR does not apply. Further, as the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing appears to have implemented the said message sending procedure
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in order to obtain consent which would be in force after 5/25/2018, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to telephone number was unlawfully kept for the purpose of promoting products and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

services not only before but also after 25/5/2018. Considering its gravity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violation and the fact that there was no other complaint against the person responsible
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

processing, the Authority considers that it should address a relevant reprimand to the person in charge
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
5

process, based on article 58 paragraph 2 paragraph a' of the GDPR.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

 

The Personal Data Protection Authority:
 

 

 

 

 

 

Directs a reprimand to our processor for illegal processing
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone number, as it is described in the reasoning of this present.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Deputy President
 

 

 

The secretary
 

 

 

 

George Batzalexis
 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

 
6

