
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    11/16/2021
                                Forum "Liberties and transparency in times of Corona"
                
                        
                                Hannah Vos, Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, Prof. Dr. Jan Ziekow, StS Randolf Stich;
                                ©
                                LfDI RLPIn the past two years, citizens have sent numerous mediation and advice requests to the LfDI in relation to the corona pandemic. Against this background, this year's discussion forum of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information of Rhineland-Palatinate on freedom of information dealt with the topic "Liberties and transparency in times of Corona". Among other things, it discussed what contribution transparency and openness can make and have already made to combating the pandemic. The state representative Professor Kugelmann emphasizes: “In an open democracy, the transparency of state action plays a central role. It counteracts the appearance of alleged or actual secrecy by government agencies. Especially when the state is mistrusted by some, freedom of information supports and promotes the trust of the citizenry and the openness of processes. Leading the discussion about how transparency can be strengthened is and will remain an ongoing task.” Other topics of the event were the recently published evaluation report on the State Transparency Act of Rhineland-Palatinate and the 10th anniversary of the Office of the State Commissioner for Information Freedom Rhineland- Palatinate. The event took place on November 16, 2021 as a video conference. The event was opened with a greeting from the Prime Minister, which can be accessed at https://s.rlp.de/10jif. Following the welcome address and a keynote speech by Prof. Dr. Jan Ziekow (German Research Institute for Public Administration), State Secretary Randolf Stich (Ministry of the Interior and Sport Rhineland-Palatinate), Hannah Vos (Open Knowledge Foundation) and the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Rhineland-Palatinate discussed the evaluation of the State Transparency Act Rhineland-Palatinate Palatinate, Professor Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, the role and effectiveness of transparency and freedom of information in order to compensate for state intervention and protect civil liberties in times of a pandemic.
The Prof. Dr. The report on the evaluation of the State Transparency Act of Rhineland-Palatinate, on which Ziekow’s lecture is based, can be accessed under the following link: https://dopus.uni-speyer.de/frontdoor/index/index/docId/5087
                                return
                            



