1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00276/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. and D.B.B.B. (hereinafter, the claimants) on the 27th of
February 2020 they filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data. The claim is directed against D. C.C.C. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed).

The complainants state that they have been published on the website
eltaquigrafo.com by the claimed a news in which they are mentioned and made
public data of a totally personal nature of the claimants, without their
consent or prior authorization.

They add, that it is made public and included in the news without any type of
censors the name and both surnames of the claimants and the D.N.I. full of
both, associated with a piece of news and that it is an Internet web page open to everyone.
public without any restrictions.

They provide different screenshots of the published news.

SECOND: In view of the facts stated, the claim was transferred to
that the respondent reported:

1.

“The decision adopted regarding this claim.

In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to 22
of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.

two.

3.

Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.

Report on the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring
similar, dates of implementation and controls carried out to verify their
effectiveness

4. Any other that you consider relevant.”

   

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

The claim was admitted for processing on August 26, 2020.

There is no answer by the respondent, being notified by the

Correos service, on June 11, 2020, as it appears in the acknowledgment of receipt.

THIRD: On September 25, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR. Said agreement was notified through the public postal operator on 8
October 2020 to the claimed.

FOURTH: Formal notification of the initiation agreement, the one claimed at the time of the
This resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On February 27, 2020, the claimants state that they have
published on the web page eltaquigrafo.com by the respondent a piece of news in which
mention and make public data of a totally personal nature of the
claimants, without their consent or prior authorization.

SECOND: It is stated that the two surnames of the
claimants and the D.N.I. complete set of both, associated with a piece of news and which is a
Internet web page open to the public without any type of restriction.

THIRD: On September 25, 2020, this sanctioning procedure was initiated for
the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, being notified on October 8,
2020. Not having made allegations, the respondent, to the initial agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

II

It is considered that the facts denounced, that is to say that the
personal data of the claimants without legitimacy for it and excessively,
assumes that they are treating the data of the complainants in an excessive way, not
pertinent to the purpose for which they are collected, violating their right to
confidentiality of your data, is disproportionate because it is not appropriate or pertinent
exposure to third parties of the complete data of the claimants, since it is not in
Absolutely necessary the publication of the D.N.I.

The way to proceed can be carried out, although affecting personal data
extreme caution must be exercised because it is being made known to anyone
the data of the claimants through name and surnames.

III

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of the

Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, which states that:

"1. The personal data will be:

“c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for those who are treated;”

The infringement is typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD and is qualified as very

serious in article 72 1 a) of the LOPDGDD.
IV

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
costs for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article.
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of €20,000,000 maximum.
mo or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.”

Article 58.2 of the RGPD indicates: "Each control authority will have all

the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation.
glament;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.”

Points out in Considering 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

There are no previous sanctions against the defendant, the activity of the defendant does not

It is the usual data processing, nor was it intended to obtain benefits.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the
RGPD, the claimed party, as data controller, may be ordered to adopt
of the necessary measures to remove the DNI of the claimants from publication,
which is the excessive data, in accordance with the provisions of article 5.1 c) of the
RGPD, as well as the provision of means of evidence accrediting compliance with
what is required.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE D.C.C.C., with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of Article
5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of
warning.

SECOND: TO REQUEST D. C.C.C., with NIF ***NIF.1, so that within a period of
month accredits to this body the compliance that it proceeds to:

 the adoption of the necessary measures to remove the DNI from publication
of the claimants, which is the excessive data, in accordance with what
established in article 5.1 c) of the RGPD, as well as the provision of means
proof of compliance with the requirements.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to D.C.C.C..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-300320

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

