

Bonn/Berlin, November 18, 2019


Press Release 28/2019


  Bundestag strengthens data protection supervisory authority
The Budget Committee of the German Bundestag has awarded the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI) a further 67 positions for the coming year. Among other things, the Federal Commissioner should be able to strengthen the supervision of the security authorities, take on new tasks relating to digitization in the healthcare system and work more closely in international committees.

The Budget Committee of the German Bundestag is once again strengthening the data protection supervisory authority of the federal government. In 2018 and 2019, my house was given a number of additional posts in order to be able to better carry out existing and new tasks, says Federal Commissioner Ulrich Kelber, who is pleased about the parliamentary decisions.
Due to the increase planned in the budget, his authority, which currently has 250 jobs, will have significantly more employees in the future. Among other things, the Federal Commissioner wants to use this to expand the advice given to the government, parliament and companies and to strengthen information for the public. We prefer to advise on legislation, the introduction of new systems and business models right from the start, so that there are no conflicts with data protection in the end, explains Kelber.
At the European level, the BfDI wants to push ahead with the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation in binding and detailed regulations that all companies can and must use as a guide when processing personal data. Among other things, the tracking of users across devices and platforms as well as the inadequate technical protection of data should be pushed back.
The Federal Commissioner is appealing to the state parliaments to provide the state data protection authorities with better staff: the German Bundestag has shown that it wants to and will enforce civil rights in practice. Many state data protection authorities, on the other hand, are still massively understaffed. This has to change at last.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











