 

Anu Talus 
Chair of the European Data Protection Board 
 

Mr. Miguel de Serpa Soares  
Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs and United Nations Legal Counsel United Nations N.Y. 10017  
United States 
 
Brussels, 23 May 2024 
 

 

Ref: OUT2024-0047 
 
Dear Mr. Serpa Soares, 

Thank you for your kind words on my election as new Chair of the European Data Protection Board 
(“the Board” or the “EDPB”) and for your letter of 6 February 2024, by which you refer to the ongoing 
dialogue between the EDPB and the United Nations System Organisations on data protection related 
matters. This letter is a follow-up to your previous letters of 26 February 2020, 14 May 2020, and of 
15 July 2021, on a similar subject-matter to which the former EDPB Chair replied on 7 October 20201 
and on 18 November 20212.  
 
As part of the international community, both the United Nations and the European Union (‘EU’) are 
grounded in the principle of the rule of law and a commitment to uphold human rights  and values 
which are enshrined in their foundational treaties and which determine their operational frameworks.  
 
Within the EU framework, the Board and its members need to ensure that entities that are subject to 
EU  law  respect  and  adhere  to  the  fundamental  right  of  protection  of  personal  data,  including  as 
reflected in secondary legislation. Entities that transfer personal data to entities in third countries or 
international organisations (‘IOs’) need to comply with EU data protection law, including their rules 
on international transfers under Chapter V of Regulation 2016/679 and Chapter V of Regulation (EU) 
2018/1725.  
 
In  that  respect,  the  Board  expresses  its  gratitude  for  the  valuable  comments  you  have  submitted 
concerning  the  Guidelines  2/2020  on  Articles  46  (2)  (a)  and  46  (3)  (b)  of  Regulation  2016/679  for 
transfers of personal data between EEA and non-EEA public authorities and bodies3. The Board is of 
the opinion that this document as well as additional guidance4 already provide clarifications having 
regard to transfers to IOs, which are also relevant for United Nations System Organisations. This for 

 

1 https://www.edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb letter out2020-0109 un.pdf   
2 https://www.edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2021-11/edpb letter out2021-00156 un en.pdf  
3 https://www.edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-22020-articles-46-2-and-
46-3-b-regulation en  
4 See in particular Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, as adopted by 
the European Data Protection Board on 25 May 2018 ;  or the Guidelines 3/2018 on the territorial scope of the 
GDPR (Article 3) 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

instance  includes  clarifications  on  privileges  and  immunities  under  international  law  as  well  as 
developing  safeguards  that  take  into  account  the  status  and  features  of  IOs  (e.g.  recognising  that 
independent  oversight  and  redress  can  be  ensured  by  other  bodies  than  national  data  protection 
authorities and courts). 
 
With regard to the references made in your letter on initiatives  undertaken by the  European Data 
Protection Supervisor (EDPS) under Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 and by the European Commission (EC), 
the Board notes that it is not the role of the EDPB to reply on behalf of these two institutions. Having 
mentioned this, the Board welcomes the active participation of representatives of many IOs, including 
the UN System Organisations, in the Task Force on transfers to international organisations established 
by the EDPS (the ‘Task Force’), which involves also national data protection authorities and the EC.  
 
The Board observes that the work of the Task Force is useful to allow its participants to share views 
on  different  aspects  relating  to  data  transfers  to  international  organisations  and  explore  practical 
solutions to enable controllers and processors that are based in the EEA to transfer personal data to 
IOs that are compliant with the EU data protection laws. The Board takes note that the Task Force’s 
focus on practical transfer tools and solutions is the result of the preferences expressed by a large 
majority of participants in the Task Force.  
 
It is worth mentioning that the participation in these discussions is not considered an acceptance or 
endorsement of specific documents or instruments by the Task Force, as the Task Force is meant to 
be  an  informal  forum  for  discussions  among  stakeholders  and  to  collect  input  from  international 
organisations.  This  input has  for  instance contributed to the development by the EDPS of a model 
administrative arrangement for transfers of personal data under Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 from EU 
Institutions,  bodies,  offices  and  agencies  to  international  organisations.  The  Board  encourages  the 
representatives of the United Nations Organisations to keep constructively participating in this Task 
Force. 
 
In  your  letter  you  refer  to  a  specific  document  which  is  a  first  working  draft  of  possible  model 
contractual clauses that has been shared by the EC on a purely informal basis with representatives of 
IOs  in  the  framework  of  the  Taskforce.  I  understand  that  this  work  has  been  initiated  –  and  the 
informal consultation has been conducted – at the request of IOs with a view to address, through a 
practical instrument, a concrete scenario which many IOs are confronted with, namely transfers of 
personal data from Processors in the EU to IOs. The aim of the consultations is to explore the possibility 
of developing standard contractual clauses specifically covering the aforementioned scenario and to 
facilitate compliance by EU processors with their obligations under EU data protection law, while duly 
taking into account the status, nature and legal framework applicable to IOs. To the knowledge of the 
Board,  the  document  which  you  refer  to  is  still  under  development  and  could  offer  an  additional 
available compliance tool if the work is successfully concluded. The Board recalls that there would be 
no obligation for IOs to use such clauses. I understand that several organisations have expressed an 
interest in continuing this work.  
 

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

As  recalled  prior,  the  EDPB  members  have  published  useful  guidance  that  covers,  among  others, 
aspects of transfers to  IOs, which is also relevant to the  United Nations System Organisations. The 
Task Force established by the EDPS is developing practical tools that support this guidance. The Board 
and  its  members  support  these  endeavours  and  welcome  the  participation  of  the  United  Nations 
System Organisations in this forum. As indicated by my predecessor in her previous letters, the work 
carried out in this Task Force cannot, in any way, replace formal procedures set out in the GDPR.   
 
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  renew  the  Board’s  commitment  to  engage  further  with  the  United  Nations 
System Organisations on the shared mission to protect human rights including the right to privacy. 
 
 
 
Yours sincerely 

 
Anu Talus 
 

 

 

European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

