 

Process No. 9421/2018

AUTHORIZATION No. 7032/ 2018

CONSERVAS PORTUGAL NORTE, LDA. notified a processing of personal data with the
preventive medicine in the context of controlling the consumption of psychoactive substances.
It was declared:

 Controlling the consumption of alcohol/other psychoactive substances;
 Adopting internal regulations on substance use control
psychoactive substances, which is in accordance with the Deliberation of the National Commission for
Data Protection (CNPD) no. 890/20101;
 That there is no workers' commission.

The CNPD, in Deliberation no. 890/2010, of 15 November, stated
guidelines and rules to which the processing of personal data must comply with the purpose
referred to above. They derive from these principles and from the legal norms set forth, in particular from the Law
67/98, of October 26, amended by Law No. 103/2015, of August 24 (Law for the Protection of
Data - LPD), the following general limits apply:

 Control procedures must always be carried out by the medical services in the
work, by health professionals subject to secrecy (cf. article 107 of Law No. 102/2009, of
September 10th);

 Health information, which includes test results, in any case
may be communicated to the employer, and only the state of the
of aptitude of the worker through a form with the mention of “fit” or “not fit” (cf. no. 3
of article 19 of the Labor Code);

 Aptitude sheets – and only these, not test results – can be used
for the purposes of evidence in a disciplinary procedure whose reasoning is based on the causes
typified, as the case may be, in the General Labor Law in Public Functions or in the Code
of Work; consumption itself does not constitute a disciplinary infraction but only and only the
behavior that may arise from it;

 It is not the finding of any blood alcohol level that can determine whether the
worker is fit or unfit for work; Such a statement can only be made by the
occupational physician on the basis of worker observation and based on criteria
clinicians;

 The legitimacy ground is the important public interest underlying the treatment of
data, embodied in the prevention of danger to the physical integrity of the person or of
the 3rd. Thus, the scope of application must be restricted to workers of categories
professionals whose activity may endanger their physical integrity or that of third parties and,
at any time, to workers who request it;

 No financial burden can be incurred by the worker as a result of the execution of
measures to control psychoactive substances in the workplace or any possible
counter-proof (cf. no. 12 of article 15 of Law no. 102/2009, of 10 September);

 The entity responsible for processing has the duty to notify the CNPD of any

future changes in terms of subcontracting entities in terms of occupational medicine;

 Medical tests and examinations carried out as part of alcohol checks constitute
workers' health data and the respective safekeeping and conservation are subject to the
special security measures provided for in article 15 of the LPD.

                                                            
1 Available at http://www.cnpd.pt/bin/orientacoes/20_890_2010.pdf



Thus, with the limits set and the grounds contained in Deliberation no.
890/2010, the notified processing is authorized under the provisions of articles 7, paragraph 2, 28.
1, point a), 29 and 30, no. 1 of the LPD, in the following terms:

Responsible

CONSERVAS PORTUGAL NORTE, LDA.

Goal

Preventive medicine in the control of:
Alcohol/narcotics and psychotropic substances

Personal data category
treaties

Form of exercising the right
of access

Data communication

interconnections

cross-border flow to
third countries

data conservation

- User identification data;
- Data related to consumption control (results of
exams plan
therapeutics, control target substances,
circumstances of test application, identification data
of the health professionals involved in the detection, frequency of
control and its justification, date of completion of the
control and possible retest results by body
accredited);
- Procedures adopted in case of disability;
 
The right of access is exercised with the doctor of the
medicine at work, through a doctor chosen by the
data subject and upon request to the person responsible in the
following address/contact: Rua Sousa Aroso, 620, Matosinhos
4450-297 Matosinhos
There is not

There is not

There is not

One year after the tests and eventual retest. At
pending case
information can be
preserved until the decision becomes final.

judicial to

The obligation to inform workers in advance must be fulfilled, in accordance with the
article 10 of the Data Protection Law, and they are also made aware of the regulation
internal company on carrying out the control of the consumption of psychoactive substances, being
clear the purpose of the medical examinations and the possibility of carrying out a retest at no cost
for the worker.

The security measures provided for in article 15 of the LPD, and those indicated in the
Resolution No. 890/2010.

Lisbon, 24-05-2018

The president

 

Filipa Calvão

 

