 
 
 
 
 
 
Ref. no.: 11.17.001.010.121 
 

Decision 

 

Demonstration of data subject’s consent and provision of information 

relating to processing 

 
 
1. A complaint was lodged with the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman in 
Finland  (Finland  SA)  against  Naxex 
Invest  Ltd  (the  Controller),  whose 
establishment  is  in  Cyprus.  The  complaint  was  subsequently  transmitted  to  the 
Office of the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection (Cyprus SA) on the 22nd 
of June 2022, in line with Article 56 of the General Data Protection Regulation. 
 
2.  On  the  basis  of  the  above,  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection 
(the Commissioner) is acting as the lead authority in this matter. In the course of 
the  investigation,  other  EU  countries,  such  as  Finland  SA,  were  identified  as 
being concerned by this case. 
 
Description of the case 
 
3.1.  According  to  the  complaint,  on  the  15th  of  May  2020  the  Complainant 
received  a  phone  call  from  FXGM  “about  investing”.  During  the  call,  the 
Complainant  requested  to  be  informed  about  the  collection  and  use  of  his  data 
(his  contact  details)  by  FXGM.  As  he  stated,  he  was  informed  that  his  contact 
details were collected via a Facebook-ad.  
 
3.2. Following the call, on the same day, the  Complainant submitted an access 
request via e-mail to FXGM, requesting, among others, the below: 

1.  information  about  the  source  used  to  collect  his  personal  data  (“where 

and how, (…) when”); 

2.  the categories of his personal data processed; 
3.  the purposes of the processing and the legal basis for the processing;  
4.  the recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed, 

in particular recipients in third countries;  

5.  a copy of his personal data undergoing processing. 

his 

 
3.3. On August 13, 2020 FXGM informed the Complainant that his personal data 
including 
Swarmiz 
(https://www.swarmiz.com/)  on  the  26th  of  April  2018.  FXGM  assured  the 
Complainant,  that  his  data  has  never  been  disclosed  to  third  parties  and 
provided to the Complainant with a copy of his personal data which were under 
processing  (Name,  Telephone  Number,  Email  address,  I.P.  address).  The 

provided 

contact 

details, 

were 

by 

Complainant  was  informed  that  FXGM  would  proceed  with  the  deletion  of  his 
personal data from its database. 

 

3.4.  On  the  same  day,  the  Complainant  stated  inter  alia  that  there  was  an 
inconsistency  to  FXGM’s  reply,  that  his  clear  consent  was  not  shown  and  he 
requested  a  proof  of  it.  FXGM  declared  in  its  response  that  “Furthermore,  we 
would  like  to  hereby  inform  you  that  the  Company  is  not  responsible  for  the 
security or privacy of any information that you may have submitted on your own 
accord  with  any 
third  parties.  Therefore,  you  can  contact  Swarmiz 
(https://www.swarmiz.com/) directly for any further enquiries that you may have.” 
 
3.5. The Complainant doubted that he ever  consented for the  processing of his 
personal data. 
 
3.6.  The  above-mentioned  exchanged  e-mails  of  the  Complainant  with  the 
Controller were submitted to the Finland SA as an attachment to the complaint. 
 
3.7.  Upon  receiving  the  complaint, on  the  9th  of  March  2022,  Finland  SA asked 
the  Controller  for  specific  clarifications  concerning  the  above-mentioned  lodged 
complaint. The Controller has informed Finland SA, among others, the below: 

1.  the Complainant registered to a marketing campaign operated by Swarmiz 

SL; 

2.  the  Complainant’s  data  were  provided  to  the  Controller  on  the  26th  April, 

2018 as a result of his registration to Swarmiz SL’s marketing campaign; 

3.  the Controller has satisfied Complainant’s access request and his right to 

be forgotten; 

4.  the  Controller  has  directed  the  Complainant  to  Swarmiz  SL,  in  order  to 

assist him with any further inquiries he may had. 

 
Investigation by Cyprus SA 
 
4.1. FXGM was at the time of the incident, a registered EU trademark exclusively 
used  as  a  brand  name  of  Depaho  Ltd,  a  registered  Cyprus  Investment  Firm 
regulated  by  the  Cyprus  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission.  Depaho  Ltd  is 
the  previous  name  of  the  Controller.  The  Controller  duly  incorporated  under 
Cyprus Law, with registration no. HE292004, is authorized and regulated by the 
Cyprus  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  as  a  Cyprus  Investment  Firm. 
Therefore,  the  Controller  is  authorized  to  offer  certain  online  investment  and 
ancillary  services  and  activities  on  the  basis  of  Law  87(I)/2017,  under  license 
number 161/11.  

 

4.2. Cyprus SA contacted the Controller and requested  its views on the matters 
raised by the Complainant. According to the Controller’s responses (dated 31st of 
August 2022, 20th of October 2022 and 20th of February 2023): 

1.  The Controller was authorized to passport its services on a cross-border 

basis including Finland. 

2.  The  Controller  no  longer  provides  services  to  retail  clients,  since 

November 3, 2021. 

3.  On  the  basis  of  a  signed  agreement  dated  17th  of  December  2013, 

Internovus Ltd was providing marketing services to the Controller.  

2 

 
 

4.  A  GDPR  agreement  regarding  the  provision  of  the  said  services,  was 

signed on 25th of May 2018 between the Controller and Internovus Ltd.  

5.  On  the  basis  of  the  said  agreement,  marketing  services  would  be 
provided only to potential clients who gave their consent to receive further 
information  about  the  Controller.  Individuals  would  give  their  consent  to 
their  personal  data  being  shared  with  the  Controller  by  registering  to  a 
marketing campaign. 

6.  Swarmiz  SL  was  acting  as  a  sub-affiliate  of  Internovus  and  it  was 
providing  online  services  to  Finland.  Therefore,  Swarmiz  SL  was 
operating  at  the  time,  the  marketing  campaign  which  allowed  interested 
individuals to register their details and express their interest and consent 
for their data to be shared with the  Controller and to receive information 
about its services. 

7.  The  Complainant’s  data  were  provided  to  the  Controller  on  the  26th  of 
April  2018  by  Swarmiz  SL,  after  he  completed  his  registration  on  the 
marketing campaign run. As a result of the Complainant’s registration, the 
Controller  collected  and  stored  his  name,  telephone  number,  email 
address and I.P. address. 

8.  There  was  only  one  telephone  communication  with  the  Complainant  by 
the  Controller on the 15th of May 2020. During the call, the  Complainant 
exercised  his  right  of  access.  On  the  same  day,  the  Complainant 
submitted an access request via e-mail to the Controller’s DPO. 

the  requested 

9.  On the 13th of August 2020, the Controller provided the Complainant with 
all 
the 
Complainant  had  never  registered  to  a  trading  account,  the  Controller 
proactively  proceeded  with  the  deletion  of  all  his  data. The  Complainant 
was  informed  about  his  data  deletion  via  e-mail,  on  the  13th  of  August 
2020. 

information.  Taking 

into  consideration 

that 

10. As  the  Controller  stated,  due  to  the  Complainant  data  deletion,  all  the 

records indicating his consent were anonymized.  

11. The  Controller  processed  Complainant’s  data  on 

the  grounds  of 

legitimate interest. 

12. The  purpose  of  the  processing  was  limited  to  the  Complainant’s 

communication and information provision about its services. 

As  proofs  of  the  above-mentioned,  the  Controller  attached  to  its  responses  the 
below:  

 

 

 

the service Agreement between Depaho Ltd and Internovus Ltd signed on 
the 17th of December 2013;  
the  GDPR  data  Processing  Agreement  between  Depaho  Ltd  and 
Internovus Ltd signed on the 25th of May 2018;  
the “BON DE COMMANDE NoOI201821022018” between Internovus Ltd 
and Swarmiz SL, dated 21/02/2018; 

  a screenshot of the Complainant’s profile; 
 

the  exchanged  emails  between  the  Controller  and  the  Complainant 
regarding his access request. 

 
Preliminary Decision 
 
5.1.  Taking  into  consideration  all  the  explanations  and  information  provided  on 
behalf of the Controller, as mentioned above, on the 6th of October 2023, I issued 
3 

 
 

a  Preliminary  Decision  regarding  the  Controller’s  failure  to  demonstrate  the 
Complainant’s consent and the lawfulness of the data collection. 
 
5.2.  Before  the  submission  of  its  views  and  positions  regarding  the  preliminary 
decision,  the  Controller  requested  the  opportunity  to  orally  represent  the  case. 
On the 8th of October 2023, a hearing was held at the Cyprus SA’s offices in the 
presence  of  the  Managing  Director,  the  Data  Protection  Officer  and  the  Legal 
Consultant of the Controller.  
 
5.3. On the 17th of November 2023, the Controller responded to the Preliminary 
Decision, and stated, inter alia, that: 

1.  Interested  individuals  would  register  on  their  own  will  and  volition,  in 
different online campaigns, operated by Internovus Ltd or its sub-affiliates, 
expressing their interest and providing their consent and instruction to be 
contacted and receive further information about the Controller, its services 
and  registration  to  its  platform.  These  individuals  were  identified  and 
categorized internally by the Controller as potential clients. The Controller 
would  not  engage  in  any  direct  communication  or  process  personal 
information  prior  to  the  potential  clients  registering  their  interest  in  the 
services and consenting to be contacted to receive further information. 

2.  The  Controller  only  contacted  potential  clients  who  had  successfully 

registered their interest and provided their consent to be contacted. 

in 

interest 

to  be  contacted.  As 

This statement includes the Complainant’s case. The Complainant 
the  Controller’s  services  and 
had  demonstrated 
consented 
the 
Complainant’s  consent  can  be  demonstrated  by  comparing  the 
data maintained in the Controller’s system (which  was provided to 
the  Cyprus  SA  before  in  the  Screenshot)  with  the  exchanged  e-
mails  between  the  Controller  and  Internovus  Ltd  concerning  his 
access  request  (emails  dated  May  19th,  2020  and  August  4th, 
2020).  

the  Controller  states, 

3.  The  Complainant’s  successful  registration  to  the  online  campaign  in  turn 
created a potential client profile in the Controller’s systems as depicted in 
the  provided  Screenshot,  confirming  the  information  submitted  by  the 
Complainant being his name, surname, telephone number, email address. 
In  addition  to  that  information,  the  Controller  retained  the  Complainants 
registration  time  stamp,  IP  and  online  campaign  to  which  he  had 
registered  to  as  depicted  in  the  provided  Screenshot  as  "Attempt  Time" 
and  "Campaign"  respectively.  Read  in  conjunction  with  the  IP  address, 
confirms  and  provides  proof  of  Complainant's  consent  and  instruction  to 
be contacted by the Controller. 

4.  Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission has stringent regulations on 
the  promotion  of  investment  firms'  services.  In  adherence  to  these 
Applicable  Laws1,  the  Controller  would  only  contact  individuals  who  had 

                                                           
1  L.  87(I)/2017  regarding  the  provision  of  investment  services,  the  exercise  of  investment  activities  and 
the  operation  of  regulated  markets,  Directive  2014/65/EU  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and 
amending Directive  2002/92/EC and Directive  2011/61/EU, Regulation  (EU) No  600/2014 on markets in 
financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 
2017/565 of 25 April 2016 supplementing Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament  and of the 
4 

 
 

successfully  registered  and  have  explicitly  consented  to  the  sharing  of 
their personal information showing an interest in the services provided by 
the Controller. 

5.  There was a telephone conversation with the Complainant on the 15th of 
May,  2020,  during  which  the  Controller  provided  him  with  the  relevant 
information  regarding  the  Controller  and  its  services,  as  legally  obligated 
under  Applicable  Laws  (to  provide  potential  clients  with  the  information 
and  relevant  risk  disclosures  during  the  pre-contractual  phase)  and 
directed  the  Complainant  to  its  website,  where  all  pertinent  details  and 
information,  including  the  Privacy  Policy,  were  readily  accessible  in  a 
durable  medium.  The  Complainant  exercised  his  right 
to  access 
information during the call, which was subsequently followed up in writing. 
The Complainant never proceeded further to finalize his registration. 

6.  The  Controller  promptly  acknowledged  receipt  of  the  Complainant's 
request  to  access  his  information.  On  the  13th  of  August,  2020,  the 
Controller  provided  the  Complainant  with  its  official  response;  furnishing 
all  information  available  in  its  records.  Within  the  same  response,  the 
Controller  informed  the  Complainant  that  “it  would  at  that  time  proceed 
with  the  "deletion  of  your  personal  data  from  our  database"”.  The 
Complainant  did  not,  at  any  time,  raise  any  objection  or  express 
discomfort  regarding  the  Controller’s  notification  to  delete  the  specific 
collected information. 

7.  The  Controller  adheres  to  specific  obligations  governed  by  Applicable 
Laws  (Law  87(I)/2017,  Directive  2014/65/EU,  Regulation  (EU)  No 
600/2014,  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  2017/565)  regarding 
the collection, processing, and retention of personal data. It is  noted that 
these requirements pertain specifically to the Controller’s clients. 

8.  The  Complainant's  information  submitted  and  shared  with  the  Controller 
were  limited  only  to  his  full  name,  email,  telephone  number  and 
IPaddress.  For  the  avoidance  of  any  doubt,  the  Controller  disclosed  all 
information to the Complainant at the time of his request, as shown on the 
relevant correspondence. 

9.  It is the Controller’s position that the legal basis and legal purpose for the 
collection and process of the Complainant's  data was in accordance with 
the Applicable Laws and Articles 6 and 7 of the GDPR. 

10. On  the  13th  of  August,  2020,  the  Controller  did  respond  to  the 
Complainant's  access  request,  providing  him  with  all  the  available  and 
relevant information it hid in its systems (as shown in the Screenshot).  

11. The Controller has clarified in its response dated 17 November 2023, that 
despite  proceeding  with  notifying  the  Complainant  for  the  intention  to 
delete his data, the Controller’s DPO has retained the exchanged e-mails 
between  the  Controller  and  Internovus  Ltd  concerning  the  Complainant’s 
access request (emails dated May 19th, 2020 and August 4th, 2020) within 
his internal records as part of the procedure of handling the request. 

12. In relation to Article 6 of the GDPR, which sets out the legal basis under it 
is  allowed  personal  data  can  be  processed,  the  Controller  is  of  the 
opinion that it was acting in compliance with the provisions therein. 

                                                                                                                                                                            
Council  as  regards  organisational  requirements  and  operating  conditions  for  investment  firms  and 
defined terms for the purposes of that Directive 

5 

 
 

o  As  per  the  Controller,  the  collection  and  processing  of  the 
Complainant's  personal  information  was  based  on  Article  6(1)(a), 
(b) and (f). The conditions of Article 7 in relation to consent are duly 
satisfied  by 
the 
Controller's system as provided in the relevant Screenshot. 

registration  attempt  on 

the  Complainant's 

o  Following the comment of the Cyprus SA that the information in the 
Screenshot  does  not  link  to  the  Complainant  due  to  being 
anonymised,  the  Controller's  DPO  was  able  to  find  relevant 
correspondence regarding the Complainants request in its internal 
records (emails dated May 19th, 2020 and August 4th, 2020). 

  As evident in the said correspondence, the email subjects of 
both e-mails, labelled "CRM Lead 13071131," aligns with the 
Load ID specified in the provided Screenshot.  

  Additionally,  both  emails  encompass 

the  personal 
the 
information  held  by 
Complainant,  which  was  also  disclosed  to  the  Complainant 
in  the  Controller’s  response  to  his  request  on  the  13th  of 
August, 2020. 

the  Controller 

in  relation 

to 

  Further,  email  dated  4th  of  August  2020  provides  a  report 
extracted  from  the  Controller’s  system  at  the  relevant  time, 
presenting  an  overview  of  the  Complainant's  information 
within  the  Controller’s  system  records.  The  "Serial  ID" 
corresponds to the identifier presented in the Screenshot. 

  Both  e-mails  also  evidence  that  the  Controller  maintained 
and  maintains  necessary  records  in  place  relating  to 
Complainant's access request. 

13.  The  Controller  noted  that  the  decision  to  proceed  with  the  deletion  was 

based on the following considerations: 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

that  the  Complainant,  on  his  own  will  and  volition  proceeded  with 
the  registration  on  the  promotional  campaign,  expressing  his 
interest  to  receive  further  information  thus  was  categorised  as  a 
potential client; 
that  the  Complainant  never  finalised  his  registration  to  become  a 
client indicating that his interest ceased to exist; 
that  the  Controller  fully  satisfied  the  Complainants  request  for 
access to his information; 
the  Controller’s  decision  to  proceed  with  anonymisation  was  done 
after proper notification to the Complainant was made and without 
receiving his opposition to the notification from his side; and 
in any event, the Controller is of the opinion that the deletion would 
not  and  has  not  adversely  affected  in  any  way  the  Complainant's 
legal rights, specifically in this case, his right to privacy. 

14. The Controller considered that since there was no lex specialis obligation 
to  further  retain  the  Complainant's  information,  the  deletion  of  the 
Complainant's  information  was  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
Preamble 39 of the GDPR. 

15. The  Controller,  having  considered  that  the  Complainant  was  only  a 
potential client that did not show further interest in its services after being 
contacted  and  has  not  finalised  his  registration  further,  considered  that 
deletion  of  Complainant's  information  was  justified  under  Article  5(1)(e) 

6 

 
 

since  the  legal  purpose  for  the  collection  and  processing  of  the 
information ceased to exist. 

that 

the  deletion  of 

16. In addition to the above and for the avoidance of any doubt, the Controller 
also  considered 
the  Complainant's  personal 
information  is  also  in  compliance  with  Preamble  64  of  the  GDPR  which 
states  that  "...  A  controller  should  not  retain  personal  data  for  the  sole 
purpose  of  being  able  to  react  to  potential  requests."  As  provided  in  the 
Applicable Laws, the  Controller's specific record keeping obligations is in 
relation  to  individuals  that  are  categorised  as  clients  of  the  Controller. 
Considering that there is no specific reference to the retention of potential 
clients'  records,  the  Controller  treats  such  additionally  in  line  with  the 
GDPR provisions.  

17. Therefore, in conclusion of all the above, it is the Controller’s opinion that 
all the actions taken by the Controller in relation to the collection, process 
and  anonymization  of  Complainant's  specific  data  submitted  at  the  time 
were  made  in  absence  of  any  bad  faith  or  effort  to  elude  from  any  of  its 
legal  obligations  and  the  Controller  genuinely  believes  to  have  been 
acting in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR. 

 
As  proofs  of  the  above-mentioned,  the  Controller  attached  to  its  response  the 
below: 

 

 

 

the service Agreement between Depaho Ltd and Internovus Ltd signed on 
the 17th of December 2013;  
the  GDPR  data  Processing  Agreement  between  Depaho  Ltd  and 
Internovus Ltd signed on the 25th of May 2018;  
the “BON DE COMMANDE NoOI201821022018” between Internovus Ltd 
and Swarmiz SL, dated 21/02/2018; 

  a screenshot of the Complainant’s profile; 
 

the  exchanged  e-mails  between  the  Controller  and  Internovus  Ltd 
concerning  the  Complainant’s  access  request  (emails  dated  May  19th, 
2020 and August 4th, 2020);  
the  exchanged  emails  between  the  Controller  and  the  Complainant 
regarding his access request. 
 

 

Legal framework 
 
6.1. Recital 39 of the Preamble: 
“Any  processing  of  personal  data  should  be  lawful  and  fair.  It  should  be 
transparent to natural persons that personal data concerning them are collected, 
used, consulted or otherwise processed and to what extent the personal data are 
or will be processed. The principle of transparency requires that any information 
and  communication  relating  to  the  processing  of  those  personal  data  be  easily 
accessible and easy to understand, and that clear and plain language be used. 
That  principle  concerns,  in  particular,  information  to  the  data  subjects  on  the 
identity  of  the  controller  and  the  purposes  of  the  processing  and  further 
information  to  ensure  fair  and  transparent  processing  in  respect  of  the  natural 
persons  concerned  and  their  right  to  obtain  confirmation  and  communication  of 
personal  data  concerning  them  which  are  being  processed.  Natural  persons 
should  be  made  aware  of  risks,  rules,  safeguards  and  rights  in  relation  to  the 

7 

 
 

processing  of  personal  data  and  how  to  exercise  their  rights  in  relation  to  such 
processing.  In  particular,  the  specific  purposes  for  which  personal  data  are 
processed  should  be  explicit  and  legitimate  and  determined  at  the  time  of  the 
collection of the personal data. The personal data should be adequate, relevant 
and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. 
This requires, in particular, ensuring that the period for which the personal data 
are stored is limited to a strict minimum. Personal data should be processed only 
if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be fulfilled by other means. 
In  order  to  ensure  that  the  personal  data  are  not  kept  longer  than  necessary, 
time  limits  should  be  established  by  the  controller  for  erasure  or  for  a  periodic 
review.  Every  reasonable  step  should  be  taken  to  ensure  that  personal  data 
which are inaccurate are rectified or deleted. Personal data should be processed 
in a manner that ensures appropriate security and confidentiality of the personal 
data, including for preventing unauthorised access to or use of personal data and 
the equipment used for the processing.” 
 
6.2. Recital 42 of the Preamble:  
“Where processing is based on the data subject's consent, the controller should 
be able to demonstrate that the data subject has given consent to the processing 
operation. In particular in the context of a written declaration on another matter, 
safeguards should ensure that the data subject is aware of the fact that and the 
extent to which consent is given. In accordance with Council Directive 93/13/EEC 
( 1 ) a declaration of consent preformulated by the controller should be provided 
in an intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language and it 
should  not  contain  unfair  terms.  For  consent  to  be  informed,  the  data  subject 
should be aware at least of the identity of the controller and the purposes of the 
processing  for  which  the  personal  data  are  intended.  Consent  should  not  be 
regarded as freely given if the data subject has no genuine or free choice or is 
unable to refuse or withdraw consent without detriment” 
 
6.3. Recital 47 of the Preamble:  
“(47)  The  legitimate  interests  of  a  controller,  including  those  of  a  controller  to 
which the personal data may be disclosed, or of a third party, may provide a legal 
basis  for  processing,  provided  that  the  interests  or  the  fundamental  rights  and 
freedoms  of  the  data  subject  are  not  overriding,  taking  into  consideration  the 
reasonable  expectations  of  data  subjects  based  on  their  relationship  with  the 
controller.  (…)  At  any  rate  the  existence  of  a  legitimate  interest  would  need 
careful  assessment  including  whether  a  data  subject  can  reasonably  expect  at 
the time and in the context of the collection of the personal data that processing 
for that purpose may take place. The interests and fundamental rights of the data 
subject  could  in  particular  override  the  interest  of  the  data  controller  where 
personal  data  are  processed  in  circumstances  where  data  subjects  do  not 
reasonably  expect  further  processing.  (…)  The  processing  of  personal  data  for 
direct  marketing  purposes  may  be  regarded  as  carried  out  for  a  legitimate 
interest.”  

 

6.4. Recital 61 of the Preamble:  
“(61) The information in relation to the processing of personal data relating to the 
data subject should be given to him or her at the time of collection from the data 
subject, or, where the personal data are  obtained from another source, within a 

8 

 
 

reasonable period, depending on the circumstances of the case. Where personal 
data  can  be  legitimately  disclosed  to  another  recipient,  the  data  subject  should 
be  informed  when  the  personal  data  are  first  disclosed  to  the  recipient.  Where 
the controller intends to process the personal data for a purpose other than that 
for which they were collected, the controller should provide the data subject prior 
to  that  further  processing  with  information  on  that  other  purpose  and  other 
necessary information. Where the origin of the personal data cannot be provided 
to  the  data  subject  because  various  sources  have  been  used,  general 
information should be provided.”  
 
6.5. Recital 64 of the Preamble:  
“The controller should use all reasonable measures to verify the identity of a data 
subject who  requests access,  in particular  in  the  context  of online services  and 
online  identifiers.  A  controller  should  not  retain  personal  data  for  the  sole 
purpose of being able to react to potential requests.” 

 

6.6. Article 6: Lawfulness of processing 
Pursuant to Article 6(1) of the GDPR,  
“1.  Processing  shall  be  lawful  only  if  and  to  the  extent  that  at  least  one  of  the 
following applies:  
(a)  the  data  subject  has  given  consent  to  the  processing  of  his  or  her  personal 
data for one or more specific purposes;  
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data 
subject is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to 
entering into a contract;  
(c)  processing  is  necessary  for  compliance  with  a  legal  obligation  to  which  the 
controller is subject;  
(d)  processing  is  necessary  in  order  to  protect  the  vital  interests  of  the  data 
subject or of another natural person;  
(e) processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public 
interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller; 
(f)  processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the  legitimate  interests  pursued 
by the controller or by a third party, except where such interests are overridden 
by  the  interests  or  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data  subject  which 
require protection of personal data, in particular where the data subject is a child. 
Point  (f)  of  the  first  subparagraph  shall  not  apply  to  processing  carried  out  by 
public authorities in the performance of their tasks.” 
 
6.7. Article 7: Conditions for consent 
According to Article 7(1) of the GDPR, “Where processing is based on consent, 
the controller shall be able to demonstrate that the data subject has consented to 
processing of his or her personal data.” 
 
6.8. Article 12: Transparent information, communication and modalities for 
the exercise of the rights of the data subject 
According  to  Article  12(1)  of  the  GDPR,  “The  controller  shall  take  appropriate 
measures  to  provide  any  information  referred  to  in  Articles  13  and  14  and  any 
communication under Articles 15 to 22 and 34 relating to processing to the data 
subject  in  a  concise,  transparent,  intelligible  and  easily  accessible  form,  using 
clear and plain language, in particular for any information addressed specifically 

9 

 
 

to  a  child.  The  information  shall  be  provided  in  writing,  or  by  other  means, 
including, where appropriate, by electronic means.” 

 

6.9.  Article  13:  Information  to  be  provided  where  personal  data  are 
collected from the data subject  
“1.  Where  personal  data  relating  to  a  data  subject  are  collected  from  the  data 
subject, the controller shall, at the time when personal data are obtained, provide 
the data subject with all of the following information: 
(a) the identity and the contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of 
the controller's representative;  
(b) the contact details of the data protection officer, where applicable;  
(c)  the  purposes  of the  processing  for which  the personal  data  are  intended  as 
well as the legal basis for the processing;  
(d)  where  the  processing  is  based  on  point  (f)  of  Article  6(1),  the  legitimate 
interests pursued by the controller or by a third party;  
(e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;  
(f) where applicable, the fact that the controller intends to transfer personal data 
to  a  third  country  or  international  organisation  and  the  existence  or  absence  of 
an adequacy decision by the Commission, or in the case of transfers referred to 
in Article 46 or 47, or the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), reference to the 
appropriate or suitable safeguards and the means by which to obtain a copy of 
them or where they have been made available.  
2. In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall, at 
the  time  when  personal  data  are  obtained,  provide  the  data  subject  with  the 
following further information necessary to ensure fair and transparent processing:  
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, 
the criteria used to determine that period;  
(b)  the  existence  of  the  right  to  request  from  the  controller  access  to  and 
rectification  or  erasure  of  personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  concerning 
the data subject or to object to processing as well as the right to data portability;  
(c) where the processing is based on point (a) of Article 6(1) or point (a) of Article 
9(2), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting 
the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal;  
(d) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;  
(e)  whether  the  provision  of  personal  data  is  a  statutory  or  contractual 
requirement,  or  a  requirement  necessary  to  enter  into  a  contract,  as  well  as 
whether  the  data  subject  is  obliged  to  provide  the  personal  data  and  of  the 
possible consequences of failure to provide such data;  
(f) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in 
Article  22(1)  and  (4)  and,  at  least  in  those  cases,  meaningful  information  about 
the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences 
of such processing for the data subject.  
3. Where the controller intends to further process the personal data for a purpose 
other  than  that  for  which  the  personal  data  were  collected,  the  controller  shall 
provide the data subject prior to that further processing with information on that 
other  purpose  and  with  any  relevant  further  information  as  referred  to  in 
paragraph 2.  
4. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply where and insofar as the data subject 
already has the information.” 
 

10 

 
 

6.10.  Article  14:  Information  to  be  provided  where  personal  data  have  not 
been obtained from the data subject 
“1.  Where  personal  data  have  not  been  obtained  from  the  data  subject,  the 
controller shall provide the data subject with the following information:  
(a) the identity and the contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of 
the controller's representative;  
(b) the contact details of the data protection officer, where applicable;  
(c)  the  purposes  of the  processing  for which  the personal  data  are  intended  as 
well as the legal basis for the processing;  
(d) the categories of personal data concerned;  
(e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;  
(f)  where  applicable,  that  the  controller  intends  to  transfer  personal  data  to  a 
recipient  in  a  third  country  or  international  organisation  and  the  existence  or 
absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or in the case of transfers 
referred  to  in  Article  46  or  47,  or  the  second  subparagraph  of  Article  49(1), 
reference  to  the  appropriate  or  suitable  safeguards  and  the  means  to  obtain  a 
copy of them or where they have been made available.  
2.  In  addition  to  the  information  referred  to  in  paragraph  1,  the  controller  shall 
provide  the  data  subject  with  the  following  information  necessary  to  ensure  fair 
and transparent processing in respect of the data subject:  
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not possible, 
the criteria used to determine that period;  
(b)  where  the  processing  is  based  on  point  (f)  of  Article  6(1),  the  legitimate 
interests pursued by the controller or by a third party;  
(c)  the  existence  of  the  right  to  request  from  the  controller  access  to  and 
rectification  or  erasure  of  personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  concerning 
the  data  subject  and  to  object  to  processing  as  well  as  the  right  to  data 
portability;  
(d)  where  processing  is  based  on  point  (a)  of Article  6(1)  or  point  (a)  of Article 
9(2), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting 
the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal;  
(e) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;  
(f)  from  which  source  the  personal  data  originate,  and  if  applicable,  whether  it 
came from publicly accessible sources;  
(g) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in 
Article  22(1)  and  (4)  and,  at  least  in  those  cases,  meaningful  information  about 
the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences 
of such processing for the data subject.  
3. The controller shall provide the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2:  
(a) within a reasonable period after obtaining the personal data, but at the latest 
within  one  month,  having  regard  to  the  specific  circumstances  in  which  the 
personal data are processed;  
(b) if the personal data are to be used for communication with the data subject, 
at the latest at the time of the first communication to that data subject; or  
(c)  if  a  disclosure  to  another  recipient  is  envisaged,  at  the  latest  when  the 
personal data are first disclosed.  
4. Where the controller intends to further process the personal data for a purpose 
other  than  that  for  which  the  personal  data  were  obtained,  the  controller  shall 
provide the data subject prior to that further processing with information on that 

11 

 
 

other  purpose  and  with  any  relevant  further  information  as  referred  to  in 
paragraph 2.”  
 
6.11. Article 15: Right of access by the data subject 
“1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation 
as to whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being processed, 
and,  where  that  is  the  case,  access  to  the  personal  data  and  the  following 
information:  
(a) the purposes of the processing;  
(b) the categories of personal data concerned;  
(c) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been 
or  will  be  disclosed,  in  particular  recipients  in  third  countries  or  international 
organisations;  
(d)  where  possible,  the  envisaged  period  for  which  the  personal  data  will  be 
stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period;  
(e) the existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or erasure 
of personal data or restriction of processing of personal data concerning the data 
subject or to object to such processing;  
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;  
(g) where the personal data are not collected from the data subject, any available 
information as to their source;  
(h) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in 
Article  22(1)  and  (4)  and,  at  least  in  those  cases,  meaningful  information  about 
the logic involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences 
of such processing for the data subject.  
2.  Where  personal  data  are  transferred  to  a  third  country  or  to  an  international 
organisation,  the  data  subject  shall  have  the  right  to  be  informed  of  the 
appropriate safeguards pursuant to Article 46 relating to the transfer.  
3.  The  controller  shall  provide  a  copy  of  the  personal  data  undergoing 
processing. For any further copies requested by the data subject, the controller 
may  charge  a  reasonable  fee  based  on  administrative  costs.  Where  the  data 
subject makes the request by electronic means, and unless otherwise requested 
by  the  data  subject,  the  information  shall  be  provided  in  a  commonly  used 
electronic form.  
4. The right to obtain a copy referred to in paragraph 3 shall not adversely affect 
the rights and freedoms of others” 
 
6.12. Pursuant to Article 58(2) GDPR, “each supervisory authority shall have all 
of the following corrective powers: 
(…)  (b)to  issue  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  a  processor  where  processing 
operations have infringed provisions of this Regulation” 
 
6.13.  L.  87(I)/2017  regarding  the  provision  of  investment  services,  the 
exercise of investment activities and the operation of regulated markets 
 

“client means any natural or legal person to whom an IF provides investment 
or ancillary services;” 

  Article 17 of the L. 87(I)/2017:  

“(7)(a)  -  "The  records  provided  for  in  subsection  (6)  shall  include  the 
recording  of  telephone  conversations  or  electronic  communications  relating 
to,  at  least,  transactions  concluded  when  dealing  on  own  account  and  the 
12 

 
 

provision of client order services that relate to the reception, transmission and 
execution of client orders." 
“(7)(h)  -  "The  records  kept  in  accordance  with  this  subsection  shall  be 
provided to the client involved upon request and shall be kept for a period of 
five  years  and,  where  requested  by  the  Commission,  for  a  period  of  up  to 
seven years." 

  Article 25 of the L. 87(I)/2017: 

“25.-(1)  A  CIF  must,  act  honestly,  fairly  and  professionally  when  providing 
investment  services,  or,  where  appropriate,  ancillary  services,  to  clients,  in 
accordance with the best interests of its clients, and comply, in particular, with 
the principles set out in section 26. 
(…) 
(3) CIFs must ensure that:  
(a) all information, including marketing communications, addressed to clients 
or potential clients are fair, clear and not misleading, and  
(b) marketing communications are clearly identifiable as such.” 
(4)(a) A CIF ensures that appropriate information is provided in good time to 
clients or potential clients with regard to the CIF and its services, the financial 
instruments  and  proposed  investment  strategies,  execution  venues  and  all 
costs and related charges, and that, such information includes the following:  
(i)  when  investment  advice  is  provided,  the CIF  must,  in  good time  before  it 
provides investment advice, inform the client:  
(A) whether or not the advice is provided on an independent basis; and  
(B) whether the advice is based on a broad or on a more restricted analysis of 
different types of financial instruments and, in particular, whether the range is 
limited  to  financial  instruments  issued  or  provided  by  entities  having  close 
links  with  the  CIF  or  any  other  legal  or  economic  relationships,  such  as 
contractual  relationships,  so  close  as  to  pose  a  risk  of  impairing  the 
independent basis of the advice provided;  
(C) whether the CIF will provide the client with a periodic assessment of the 
suitability of the financial instruments recommended to that client;  
(ii)  the  information  on  financial  instruments  and  proposed  investment 
strategies  must  include  appropriate  guidance  on  and  warnings  of  the  risks 
associated  with  investments  in  those  instruments  or  in  respect  of  particular 
investment  strategies  and  must  state  whether  the  financial  instrument  is 
intended  for  retail  or  professional  clients,  taking  account  of  the  identified 
target market in accordance with subsection (2);  
(iii)  the  information  on  all  costs  and  associated  charges  must  include 
information  relating  to  both  investment  services  and  ancillary  services, 
including  the  cost  of  advice,  where  relevant,  the  cost  of  the  financial 
instrument  recommended  or  marketed  to  the  client  and  how  the  client  may 
pay for it, also encompassing any third-party payments.  
(b)  The  CIF  ensures  that  the  information  about  all  costs  and  charges, 
including  costs  and  charges  in  connection  with  the  investment  service  and 
the  financial  instrument,  which  are  not  caused  by  the  occurrence  of 
underlying market risk, shall be aggregated to allow the client to understand 
the overall cost as well as the cumulative effect on return of the investment, 
and  if  the  client  so  requests,  an  itemised  breakdown  of  the  costs  shall  be 
provided.  Where  applicable,  such  information  shall  be  provided  to  the  client 
on a regular basis, at least annually, during the life of the investment.” 

13 

 
 

 
6.14.  DIRECTIVE  2014/65/EU  on  markets  in  financial  instruments  and 
amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU 
  Article 16 of the Directive 2014/65/EU: 
“(6)  An  investment  firm  shall  arrange  for  records  to  be  kept  of  all  services, 
activities and transactions undertaken by it which shall be sufficient to enable the 
competent authority to fulfil its supervisory tasks and to perform the enforcement 
actions under this Directive, Regulation (EU) No 600/2014, Directive 2014/57/EU 
and  Regulation  (EU)  No  596/2014,  and  in  particular  to  ascertain  that  the 
investment firm has complied with all obligations including those with respect to 
clients or potential clients and to the integrity of the market. 
(7)  Records  shall  include  the  recording  of  telephone  conversations  or  electronic 
communications  relating  to,  at  least,  transactions  concluded  when  dealing  on 
own account and the provision of client order services that relate to the reception, 
transmission and execution of client orders (...) 
(...) The records kept in accordance with this paragraph shall be provided to the 
client  involved  upon  request  and  shall  be  kept  for  a  period  of  five  years  and, 
where requested by the competent authority, for a period of up to seven years" 

6.15.  REGULATION  (EU)  No  600/2014  on  markets  in  financial  instruments 
and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012: 
  Article 25(1) of the Regulation (EU) No 600/2014:  
"Investment  firms  shall  keep  at  the  disposal  of  the  competent  authority,  for  five 
years,  the  relevant  data  relating  to  all  orders  and  all  transactions  in  financial 
instruments which they have carried out, whether on own account or on behalf of 
a client. In the case of transactions carried out on behalf of clients, the records 
shall  contain  all  the  information  and  details  of  the  identity  of  the  client,  and  the 
information required under Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and 
of the Council (1). ESMA may request access to that information in accordance 
with  the  procedure  and  under  the  conditions  set  out  in  Article  35  of  Regulation 
(EU) No 1095/2010." 
 
6.16.  Commission  Delegated  Regulation  (EU)  2017/565  supplementing 
Directive  2014/65/EU  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  as 
requirements  and  operating  conditions 
regards  organisational 
for 
investment firms and defined terms for the purposes of that Directive: 
  Article 72 (2): 
 "Investment  firms  shall  keep  at  least  the  records  identified  in  Annex  I  to  this 
Regulation depending upon the nature of their activities. 
The list of records identified in Annex I to this Regulation is without prejudice to 
any other recordkeeping obligations arising from other legislation.” 
 
Views of the Commissioner 
 
7.1. After examining  the facts  and  the  information  provided by  the  Complainant 
and  the  Controller,  and  taking  into  consideration  the  comments  from  the 
concerned Supervisory Authorities, I would like to mention the below.  
 

14 

 
 

7.2.  Naxex  Invest  Ltd  as  the  legal  entity,  who  determined  the  purposes  and 
means of the processing is considered as the Controller. The Complainant as the 
natural person whose personal data were being processed is considered as the 
data subject. 
 
7.3.  According  to  the  Controller,  the  Complainant  registered  his  details  and 
express  his  interest  and  consent  to  receive  information  about  the  Controller’s 
services.  During  the  data  collection  the  Complainant  was  provided  with  some 
initial  information  about  the  purpose  of  the  processing.  Furthermore,  during  the 
call on the 15th of May 2020, the Controller provided some additional information 
regarding  the  data  processing  to  the  Complainant.  It  was  explained  to  the 
Complainant  that  his  data  were  provided  to  the  Controller  as  a  result  of  his 
registration  to  a  marketing  campaign  regarding  the  Controller.  It  was  moreover 
explained  that  the  Complainant  consented  for  his  details  sharing  in  order  to 
receive  information  about  the  Controller  and  its  services.  According  to  the 
Controller,  during  the  call  the  Complainant  was  provided  with  the  relevant 
information  regarding  the  company  and  its  services,  and  was  directed  to  its 
website, where all pertinent details and information, including the Privacy Policy, 
were readily accessible in a durable medium. 
 
7.4.  Following  the  call  and  upon  the  receival  of  the  Complainant’s  request  of 
access (dd May 15th, 2020), the Controller has provided the relevant information 
concerning  the  data  processing  on  the  13th  of  August  2020.  With  the  said  e-
mails: 

  The  Controller  informed  the  Complainant  about  the  collection,  the 
recipients  of  his  data  and  provided  him  with  a  copy  of  his  personal  data 
undergoing processing.  

  The  Controller  informed  the  Complainant  that  it  would  proceed  with  the 

deletion of his personal data from its database. 

  The Controller referred the Complainant to Swarmiz SL’s for further details 

concerning the ad. 

the  Controller’s  services  with 

 
7.5.  Based  on  the  facts,  the  collected  personal  data  were  used  only  for 
communication  of 
the  Complainant.  The 
Complainant was informed about the processing of his personal data at the time 
of  the  collection  and  at  the  time  of  the  Controller’s  first  communication.  The 
Controller  provided  the  Complainant  with  additional  information  about  his  data 
processing by its reply to the submitted access request. 
 
7.6.  Taking  into  consideration  the  above,  the  Controller  provided  to  the 
Complainant  information  about  his  data  processing  at  the  time  of  the  collection 
and at the first communication (in accordance with Articles 12, 13 and 14 of the 
GDPR).  Moreover,  it  responded  to  his  access  request  within  the  specified  time 
frame  (as  defined  in  Article  12  of  the  GDPR)  and  provided  the  information  the 
Complainant has requested in his access request.  
 
7.7. As the Controller stated, the Complainant’s data were collected and further 
processed (storage and use) based on consent and on the grounds of legitimate 
interest.  It  was  also  stated  that  the  processing  was  necessary  in  order  the 

15 

 
 

Controller to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a 
contract. 
 
7.8.  The  Complainant  has  disputed  that  he  previously  consented  to  receive 
information  about  the  Controller.  In  order  to  investigate  the  validity  of  the 
Complainant’s  consent,  the  Controller  was  instructed  to  send  to  my  Office  any 
relevant  documentation  has  in  its  possession.  As  a  proof  of  the  data  subject’s 
consent,  the  Controller  initially  sent  to  my  Office  a  Screenshot  of  the 
Complainant’s profile. The Screenshot shows a Table which contains the below 
information: 

  Lead ID: 13071131 
  Label: FXGM_FIN 
  Attempt time: 26-Apr-18 7:25:51 AM 
  Campaign: Swarmiz_Trainees_Finland [26FEB2018] [14622] 
  Serial Id: 1156290 
 
  Pseudonymized first name, last name, phone, e-mail of the Complainant.  

IP address: C2C55A8850O347AA10D47OD55D97DBEE 

the  available 

 
7.9. The Controller stated that the above-mentioned information was anonymized 
due to the deletion of the Complainant’s data. As it was clarified to the Controller, 
anonymous  registration  doesn’t  prove  the  Complainant’s  consent.  Therefore, 
before the issuance of the Preliminary Decision, the Controller was requested to 
provide  further  documentation  in  order  to  prove  the  Complainant’s  consent.  On 
the  20th  of  February  2023,  the  Controller  stated  that  has  already  provided  my 
Office  with  all 
information  and  supporting  documents. 
Consequently,  taking  into  consideration  that  the  Complainant  has  never 
requested  his  data  deletion  and  repeatedly  asked  for  a  proof  of  his  consent,  in 
my  preliminary  decision  I  found  that  the  Controller  did  not  have  a  plausible 
reason  to  proceed  with  the  deletion  of  his  data  and  I  concluded  that  the 
Controller  had  failed  to  demonstrate  the  Complainant’s  consent  and  the 
lawfulness of the data collection. 
 
7.10.  According  to  the  Controller’s  response  to  my  Preliminary  Decision,  the 
Complainant’s  registration  and  consent  provision  can  be  demonstrated  by  the 
information  mentioned  in  the  previous  paragraphs.  In  order  to  prove  that,  the 
Controller sent to my Office two additional emails. Those emails were exchanged 
in  2020  (May  19th,  2020  and  August  4th,  2020)  between  the  Controllers  and 
Internovus  Ltd  employees  regarding  the  Complainant’s  access  request.  The  e-
mail  dated  August  4th,  2020  includes  a  report  extracted  from  the  Controllers 
system  at  the  relevant  time,  presenting  an  overview  of  the  Complainant's 
information. The report includes among others the below: 

 
7.11.  Reading  the  above-mentioned  details  in  comparison  with  the  information 
given  in  the  Screenshot  of  the  Complainant’s  profile,  the  Controller  is  of  the 

 

16 

 
 

opinion  that  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  information  which  categorized  as 
anonymous relates to the Complainant and indicates his registration.  
 
7.12. It is important to highlight that, according to Recital 26 of the Preamble of 
the  GDPR,  anonymous  information  is  information  which  does  not  relate  to  an 
identified  or  identifiable  natural  person.  Consequently,  the  data  regarding  the 
Complainant  cannot  be  considered  and  characterized  as  anonymous  (as  the 
Controller initially stated), since the Complainant can be indirectly identified. 
 
7.13.  Moreover,  according  to  Guidelines  05/2020  on  consent  under  Regulation 
2016/679,  Article  7(1)  of  the  GDPR  clearly  determines  the  explicit  obligation  of 
the controller to demonstrate  the data subject's consent. According to the same 
Article, the burden of proof of the consent validity is on the controller. Recital 42 
of  the  Preamble  of  the  GDPR  states:  “Where  processing  is  based  on  the  data 
subject's  consent,  the  controller  should  be  able  to  demonstrate  that  the  data 
subject  has  given  consent  to  the  processing  operation.”  As  per  the  Guidelines 
05/2020, Controllers are free to develop methods to comply with this provision in 
a way that is fitting in their daily operations. The controllers should have enough 
data  to  show  a  link  to  the  processing  (to  show  consent  was  obtained)  but  they 
shouldn’t be collecting any more information than necessary.  
 
7.14.  The  GDPR  does  not  prescribe  exactly  how  the  Controller  must  prove  its 
compliance  with  the  GDPR.  In  any  case,  the  Controller  must  be  able  to  prove 
that 
the data subject has given consent to the processing operation.  
 
7.15.  Taking  into  consideration  all  the  above,  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  the 
provided  information  and  the  documentation  indicates  up  to  a  point  the 
Complainant’s  registration  to  the  marketing  campaign.  However,  the  provided 
information  (including  all  the  additional  documentation)  doesn’t  demonstrate 
compliance  with  the  main  elements  of  the  consent  requirement  as  stipulated  in 
Articles 4(11) and 7 of GDPR (freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous 
indication of the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a 
clear  affirmative  action,  signifies  agreement  to  the  processing  of  personal  data 
relating to him or her). 
 
7.16.  Concerning  the  processing  of  the  Complainant’s  personal  data  for  direct 
marketing  purposes,  I  consider  that  processing  for  direct  marketing  purposes 
may be regarded as carried out for the Controller’s legitimate interest. 
 
7.17. Regarding the deletion of the Complainant’s data, I am of the opinion that 
the Controller did not act in a way that negatively affect the Complainant’s rights 
and freedoms. In any case, I find important to  highlight that  controllers have an 
obligation to stop the processing actions concerned and  to delete data that was 
processed on the basis of consent once that consent is withdrawn, in the event 
that no other purpose exists justifying the continued retention. The completion of 
the  examination  of  pending  requests  before  any  deletion  and  the  provision  of 
accurate and comprehensive information are deemed necessary.  
 
Conclusion 

17 

 
 

 
8. Having regard to all the above information, and based on the powers vested in 
me  by  Articles  58  and  83  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  and  article  24(b)  of 
National Law 125(I)/2018, I conclude that there is an infringement of Articles 6 
and 7 GDPR on behalf of Naxex Invest Ltd for the reasons mentioned above. 
 
9.  Under  the  provisions  of  Article  83  of  the  GDPR,  I  take  into  account  the 
following mitigating (1-6) and aggravating (7) factors: 

1.  The Controller no longer provides services to retail clients. 
2.  There is no previous violation of the GDPR by the Controller. 
3.  The categories of personal data affected by the infringement. 
4.  The cooperation of the Controller with the supervisory authority. 
5.  The negligent character of the infringement. 
6.  The level of the damage the Complainant suffered. 
7.  The  inability  of  the  Controller  to  prove  that  all  conditions for  valid  explicit 

consent were met. 

 
10. In view of the above and on the basis of the powers conferred on me by the 
provisions of subparagraph (b) of paragraph (2) of Article 58 of the GDPR, I have 
decided  to  issue  a  Reprimand  to  Naxex  Invest  Ltd  for  the  infringement 
mentioned in paragraph 8 above.  
 
 
 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou   
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 
Cyprus 

28th of March 2024 

 

 

 

 

 
 

18 

