  Wednesday, October 17, 2018 2: Press releases Freedom of Information Officer Schleswig-Holstein: Transparency in the administration even when using algorithms and artificial intelligence The administration is currently examining the extent to which algorithms and artificial intelligence processes can simplify the processing of tasks or even make them possible in the first place. In many cases, this does not involve personal data, but factual data, for example weather forecasts, tests of the stability of bridges or planning of traffic routes and power lines. What does this development mean for the right to free information? What does this mean for the underlying principle of controllability of administrative action? As the State Commissioner for Data Protection in Schleswig-Holstein, Marit Hansen is not only responsible for data protection, but also for access to information in the state. She deals with algorithms and artificial intelligence and sees some challenges here: “Administrative decisions must be comprehensible – this rule of law principle does not change when technology is used. We need suitable guarantees for the trustworthiness and quality of every technology used - even today's technology does not sufficiently implement this requirement, and with self-learning and constantly changing systems it becomes even more difficult". from the federal and state governments present a position paper that describes the requirements that arise in a world with the use of algorithms and artificial intelligence. In it, the freedom of information officers describe the duties of the public authorities to check carefully whether this is at all possible in accordance with fundamental rights, even before deciding to use such procedures, because not every data processing is permitted. They also emphasize the task of the administration to ensure sufficient transparency. This can be much easier if the developers of such systems already incorporate transparency requirements in the design process - in the sense of "transparency by design". The legislators at the federal and state levels are also called upon to follow up on the transparency regulations, for example in the right to access information or in specialist laws. Marit Hansen is looking forward to the upcoming discussion: “The position paper makes the comprehensive need for action clear. We would be happy to discuss specifically how these requirements can be implemented. Research results on methods of artificial intelligence, which should be explainable and understandable ("explainable artificial intelligence"), can play an important role here. And of course I don't just see the issues of freedom of information, but also challenges for data protection when algorithms and artificial intelligence process personal data." algorithms is indispensable for the protection of basic human and civil rights" If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstr. 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
Email: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de
Information on freedom of information: The freedom of information officers are responsible for the right of citizens to freely access information held by public authorities. This is not unlimited. How far the law goes and how it is implemented is regulated by law in many European countries, at the federal level and in most federal states. In Schleswig-Holstein, the Information Access Act forms the legal basis. Tags for this article: freedom of information, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 – responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks – further develop the right to freedom of information No circumvention of freedom of information by establishing foundations under civil law! Agenda of the 42nd session of the Conference of Freedom of Information Commissioners (IFK)