Bavarian State Office for
data protection supervision

 

 

Ansbach, June 03, 2020

 

press release

 

Prevent cyberattacks on medical facilities:

Bavarian data protection supervisory authorities

Best practice checklist ready

 

 
The current corona pandemic is making it very clear to many people how important a functional

functioning healthcare system. Hospitals, medical practices and medical laboratories are

called upon to ensure the medical care of the population. Already a successful one

However, a cyber attack can disrupt the functionality of a medical facility for days or weeks.

massively impair them - and in the worst case even paralyze them completely. This have a

individual cases have been shown again and again in recent years. To review your cybersecurity

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection (BayLfD) and the

Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) therefore the medical facilities in

Bavaria has a best-practice checklist available. Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri and Michael Will

delete: “Cybersecurity in our medical facilities is not only about the

special protection of patient data, but also about the functionality of hospitals

sern, medical practices and laboratories in the overall structure of our healthcare system. Each repelled attack

griff is therefore a contribution to guaranteeing and strengthening health care in Bavaria.”

Internet attacks on the healthcare system

The time when in medical institutions patient data is entered on the clipboard and offline in

were filed in a paper file is long gone. From registration to treatment to discharge

sungsbrief is now almost every step of care at the doctor and in the hospital just like that

Analysis digitized in a laboratory. But what if patient data suddenly cannot be called up,

actions can only be initiated with difficulty or the modern CT device only shows a black screen

indicates? In this case, a cyber attack on the medical facility may have taken place, at which a

Attackers used the Internet to gradually move from patient registration to the internal network of a facility

hacked and all files by a so-called ransomware, in which access to the patient data only

promised again after paying an immensely high ransom, made it unusable.

Raise barriers to successful attacks

The statement that there is no 100% protection against cyber attacks may be correct. This

does not mean, however, that there is no protection at all here or that every attempted attack is always crowned with success

got to. On the contrary: With cheap protective measures, an effective and often decisive one can often be achieved

address
Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision
boardwalk 18
91522 Ansbach

 

Telephone +49 (0) 981 180093-0
Fax +49 (0) 981 180093-800
e-mail
Website www.lda.bayern.de

presse@lda.bayern.de

Public transportation
Schlossplatz bus stops
or train station of the city and
regional lines



 

- 2 -

 

hurdle can be created if the medical facility is aware of which attack vectors are currently

be det and how doors can be locked tightly for quick criminal success.

Concrete help through a checklist

In order for medical institutions - from doctors to laboratories to hospitals - to increase the effectiveness of their
Cyber security measures can be checked easily, the Bavarian State Commissioner for Data
tenschutz (BayLfD) and the Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision (BayLDA) conducted a best practice check
list worked out. In the form of one that can be used by those responsible and their data protection officers
questionnaire, the checklist enables medical facilities to take stock of measures
ments and processes to ensure the availability of personal data with a view to possible
cyber attacks. The checklist thus represents an important building block in the joint Bavarian preventive
work against attacks from the Internet on the Bavarian healthcare system. The checklist is free
tenlos for download at www.lda.bayern.de/best_practice_medizin and at www.datenschutz-
bayern.de/best_practice_medizin.

The two Bavarian data protection supervisory authorities have been using the

continued along the path taken in the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, above all by providing early advice

to offer Bavarian public and non-public bodies specific assistance.

 

 

Michael Will

 

 

 

 

President of the Bavarian State Office

for data protection supervision

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

The Bavarian State Commissioner

for data protection

 

