1/18

936-031219

 Procedure No.: PS/00134/2020

RESOLUTION R/00300/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00134/2020, instructed by the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency to REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN, S.A.D., in view of the
Complaint filed by the MINISTRY OF FINANCE - D. G. DE ORDINATION
OF THE GAME, and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 16, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against REAL SPORTING DE
GIJÓN, S.A.D. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<
Procedure No.: E/00134/2020

935-240719

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency before
the entity, Club Deportivo REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN, S.A.D. with CIF.: A33608233,
(hereinafter, "the entity claimed"), by virtue of a complaint filed by the
MINISTRY OF FINANCE, (D.G. OF GAMBLING ORDINATION), and having
based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: On 10/01/19, this Agency receives a letter from the MINISTRY OF
TREASURY, (D. G. OF GAMBLING REGULATION), communicating a possible
infringement of the RGPD, committed by the REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN Sports Club,
S.A.D. Said letter indicates, among others, the following:

“Dated 09/13/18, the General Director of Gambling Regulation receives a letter of
the Director General of the Interior of the Government of the Principality of Asturias in relation
with certain advertising of EUROAPUESTAS ONLINE, SAU and requesting
information about the terms of the authorizations granted to the aforementioned
operator “to carry out advertising and promotional activities in the territory of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

Principality and whether these would cover the installation of fixed physical media in
said territory or the realization of a mailing with a gift of money”.

 

The publicity referred to by the aforementioned Director General consists of the appearance of
Paston.es, as official sponsor of the kit and on the field of Real Sporting
of Gijón and in sending emails to members offering 10 euros free and
providing a promotional code for it.

 

In response to a previous communication from the Directorate General for Gaming (DGOJ), the
Real Sporting de Gijón submitted the sponsorship contract entered into with that operator,
the invoices related to said sponsorship, the report of the campaign carried out, the
e-mail user registration model in the club and the list of recipients
to which the emails with the bonus and the promotional code were sent.

 

The DGOJ examined the legal regime applicable to advertising activities,
sponsorship and promotion of state-licensed gaming operators (articles 7.1 and l
10.3 of Law 13/2011, of May 27, on gambling regulation (LRJ), provision
first transitory of Royal Decree 1614/2011, of November 14, which is issued in
development of the LRJ in relation to gaming licences, authorizations and registrations,
Resolution of June 2, 2015 by which a general license is granted for the
development and operation of the EUROAPUESTAS betting game modality
ONLINE, SAU).

 

In light of the regulations cited above and the undoubted connection that this
regulations maintains with the competence titles attributed to the State in the rules
6th, 13th and 14th of article 149 of the Spanish Constitution, it was considered that the Law of the
Principality of Asturias 6/2014 of Games and Bets, whose scope of application is
refers to the territorial game of Asturias, it is not applicable and that the
legal regime applicable to any type of advertising carried out by an operator of
gaming in connection with its statewide license is governed by state rules
cited. Consequently, it was agreed to file the file with reference
CO/2018/025/1065.

 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following has been taken into account:

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

1. Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the information society and
electronic commerce establishes in its article 21:

“Article 21. Prohibition of commercial communications made through
email or equivalent electronic means of communication.

1. Sending advertising or promotional communications is prohibited.
by email or other equivalent means of electronic communication
that had not previously been requested or expressly authorized by
their recipients.

2. The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply when there is a
prior contractual relationship, provided that the provider had obtained
lawful contact details of the recipient and will use them to send
commercial communications regarding products or services of your own
company that are similar to those that were initially subject to
contracting with the client.

2. Art. 38.3 c) of Law 34/2002 considers a serious infringement the massive sending of
commercial communications by email or other means of communication
equivalent electronic mail, or its persistent or systematic sending to the same addressee of the
service when the requirements of art 21 are not met in said shipments.

 

3. For its part, section 4 of the same article qualifies as a minor infraction “d) Sending
commercial communications by email or other means of communication
electronic equivalent when said shipments do not meet the requirements
established in article 21 and does not constitute a serious infraction.

 

4. Finally, article 43.1 of the aforementioned Law 34/2002, relating to competition
penalty for non-compliance with its provisions, establishes that "the imposition
of sanctions for non-compliance with the resolutions issued by the
competent depending on the matter or entity in question referred to in the
paragraphs a) and b) of article 38.2 of this Law shall correspond to the body that issued the
unfulfilled resolution. Likewise, it will correspond to the Data Protection Agency
the imposition of sanctions for the commission of the infractions typified in the
articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and 38.4 d), g) and h) of this Law”.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

 

In accordance with the foregoing, it has been considered appropriate to refer it to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection of the documentation related to this matter:

 

1. Letter from the Director General of the Interior of the Principality of Asturias to
General Director of Gambling Regulation stating his doubts
jurisdiction over advertising activities related to the
sponsorship of Real Sporting de Gijón by the gaming operator with
state license Euroapuestas Online, SAU.

2. Illustrative documentation of the cited writing.

3. Request for information from the Directorate General for the Planning of
Game (DGOJ) against Real Sporting de Gijón.

4. Response from Real Sporting de Gijón providing requested documentation.

5. List of email advertising referrals.

SECOND: In view of the facts set forth in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out actions for its clarification, under the powers of
investigation granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Thus, on 11/27/19, an informative request is addressed to
the claimed entity and EUROAPUESTAS ONLINE SAU.

THIRD
 
Agency written informing, among others, of the following:

 : On 12/17/19, EUROAPUESTAS ONLINE SAU, refers to this

“On August 14, 2018 EUROAPUESTAS ONLINE, SAU (PASTÓN) adopted an agreement
advertising sponsorship with REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN, SAD, by signing
of a contract. The collaborative relationship between the CLUB and PASTÓN had as

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

object of the advertising promotion and use of the image of PASTÓN, in the terms
agreed in it. (Document 1)

 

Of the actions and initiatives contained in the advertising sponsorship contract
agreed between the two parties, we must highlight the point "3.3.7 Digital Community",
specifically the agreement referring to the "sending of 4 emails to your database of
users” since it is the subject of this complaint.

  

Regarding the sending of these 4 emails to the CLUB members, transfer what
Next;

 

1. PASTON, has never had access to the database owned by REAL
SPORTING DE GIJÓN, SAD, that is why the email addresses are unknown
email of the members of the CLUB, and consequently said ignorance,
makes it impossible to carry out any processing operation of the personal data of
the affected.

 

2. Derived from the foregoing, PASTÓN has not carried out advertising communications or
promotional emails to members of REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN.

 

3. REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN, SAD is the sole owner and responsible for the
treatment of the database, where the personal information of the users works
partners or users impacted at the advertising level.

 

4. REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN, SAD is the one who makes the decision by itself
relative to the final recipients to whom to send commercial communications
agreed.

 

5. REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN, SAD was the one who carried out the referral of said
commercial or promotional communications, which, despite having agreed
four shipments, finally only two shipments were sent.

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

6. PASTON only decides on the model of the advertising content, relative to
creativity and text, so that, as we have explained, it does not make a decision
any on who are the final recipients of commercial communications.

 

In short, according to everything that has been indicated, PASTÓN is not the one who
entrusts or is responsible for the processing of personal data, thus, it does not define the
segmentation of the recipients that appear in the database owned by the REAL
SPORTING DE GIJÓN, SAD and does not decide to whom the advertising is directed. So,
PASTÓN does not decide on the purpose, content and use of data processing, as
it only decides on the model of the advertising content, regarding creativity and text.

 

FOURTH: On 12/27/19, the claimed entity sends to this Agency, a letter of
response to the request where, among others, it indicates that:

“When the consent of the partners is collected, it is passed to our database,
where depending on whether you have given your consent or not in the field of our
ERP —MAIL—), is marked as likely to receive advertising (using Y and N).
It is also filtered by age, not sending advertising to minors or
people older than 65 years. We attach ERP capture (document 1.3) that
Hopefully it serves as a sample on this explanation.

When we learned of the entry into force of the RGPD we began to take
the pertinent measures so that our treatments were in accordance with the law. In
May 2019 we contracted with an external company the adaptation to the Regulation of
Data Protection that analyzed our treatments, carried out an Evaluation of
Impact on Data Protection and provided us with a plan with the actions to take to
comply with GDPR.

The information that was provided both to partners and to other
users of our services and a Record of Treatment activities was prepared.
In order to prove what was stated above, the following are attached:
Documents: 1: Evidence of the collection of consent from partners and relationship with
the mailing list where the advertising is sent. Age segmentation tests.
Root list personal data. 1.2. Shipment record list. 1.3. ERP screenshot.
Document; 2: External data protection policy; 3: High model document
as a partner. 3.1. Conditions of purchase subscribers. 3.2. Shipping consent
commercial.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

The document that is made available to partners to give consent to
the processing of personal data for commercial or promotional purposes, are indicated
the options for which consent can be given or not:

"NAME AND SURNAME______

Check the following boxes if you do not want Real Sporting de Gijón S.A.D to carry out
indicated treatments:

_ I do not want my data to be processed for sending newsletters and information about
club activities and services.

_ I do not want my data to be processed for the organization of raffles, contests and other
promotional events.

_ I do not want my data to be processed to carry out satisfaction surveys
clients or potential clients.

_ I do not want my data to be processed for the personalization of commercial offers and
promotional.

_ I do not want my data to be processed for sending commercial offers and
promotional”.

FIFTH: In view of the facts denounced, in accordance with the evidence of
that is available, the Data Inspection of this Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data considers the above, does not comply with current regulations, therefore
that the opening of this sanctioning procedure proceeds.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
resolve these actions, by virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 04/27/16, regarding the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

Protection of Natural Persons with regard to Data Processing
Personal and the Free Circulation of these Data (RGPD) recognizes each Authority
of Control and, as established in arts. 47, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD).

Sections 1) and 2), of article 58 of the RGPD, list, respectively, the
investigative and corrective powers that the supervisory authority may provide to the
effect, mentioning in point 1.d), that of: "notifying the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment of alleged infringements of these Regulations” and in 2.i), that of:
“impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
case".

II

In the present case, the document that is made available to the partners asking them to
consent to the processing of your personal data for commercial purposes or
promotional, does not consist of affirmative actions, but of an inaction that does not
ensures that the interested party unequivocally grants consent. So, taking
as an example the first question: "Check the following boxes if you do not want El
Real Sporting de Gijón S.A.D carries out the indicated treatments: 1.- _ I do not want
treat my data to send newsletters and information about activities and services
of the club (...)”, we see how consent is requested through an act of inaction,
in which if the member wishes to be sent newsletters about club activities, he must
leave the box unchecked. But this act of "not checking the box" gives rise to
ask yourself if the interested party really wants to be sent the newsletters or by the
On the contrary, he did not check the box due to an oversight or any other reason and really what
wanted is NOT to receive the newsletters, leading to a situation
doubtful This same example can be used for the other four questions in the
questionnaire.

In this sense, articles 6 and 7 of the same RGPD refer, respectively, to the
“Legality of treatment” and the “Conditions for consent”:

Article 6 of the RGPD, indicates that the treatment will only be lawful if it complies with at least
one of the following conditions:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

“a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when it is
child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.

2. Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions
in order to adapt the application of the rules of this Regulation with regard to the
treatment in compliance with section 1, letters c) and e), setting more
specifies specific treatment requirements and other measures that guarantee a
lawful and equitable treatment, including other specific situations of
treatment under Chapter IX.

3. The basis of the treatment indicated in section 1, letters c) and e), must be
established by:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

a) Union law, or b) the law of the Member States that applies to the
responsible for the treatment.

The purpose of the treatment must be determined in said legal basis or, in what
regarding the treatment referred to in section 1, letter e), will be necessary for the
fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of powers
data conferred on the data controller. Said legal basis may contain
specific provisions to adapt the application of rules of this
Regulation, among others: the general conditions that govern the legality of the treatment
by the controller; the types of data object of treatment; the interested
affected; the entities to which personal data can be communicated and the purposes
of such communication; purpose limitation; the retention periods of the
data, as well as the operations and procedures of the treatment, including the
measures to ensure lawful and fair treatment, such as those relating to other
specific treatment situations under chapter IX. Union Law
or of the Member States will fulfill a public interest objective and will be proportional
to the legitimate end pursued.

4. When the treatment for another purpose other than that for which the data was collected
personal data is not based on the consent of the interested party or on the Law
of the Union or of the Member States which constitutes a necessary and
proportionate in a democratic society to safeguard the stated objectives
in article 23, paragraph 1, the data controller, in order to determine
if processing for another purpose is compatible with the purpose for which they were collected
initially the personal data, will take into account, among other things:

a) any relationship between the purposes for which the data was collected
data and the purposes of the intended further processing;

b) the context in which the personal data have been collected, in particular by what
regarding the relationship between the interested parties and the data controller;

c) the nature of the personal data, specifically when categories are processed
special personal data, in accordance with article 9, or personal data
relating to criminal convictions and offences, in accordance with article 10;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

d) the possible consequences for data subjects of the envisaged further processing;

e) the existence of adequate safeguards, which may include encryption or
pseudonymization”.

For its part, article 7 of the RGPD indicates:

"1. When the treatment is based on the consent of the interested party, the person in charge
You must be able to demonstrate that you consented to the processing of your data
personal.

2. If the data subject's consent is given in the context of a written statement
that also refers to other matters, the request for consent will be presented in
in such a way that it is clearly distinguishable from other matters, in an intelligible and
easy access and using clear and simple language. No part will be binding
of the statement that constitutes an infringement of this Regulation.

3. The interested party shall have the right to withdraw their consent at any time. The
Withdrawal of consent will not affect the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to withdrawal. Before giving their consent, the interested party
will be informed of it. It will be as easy to withdraw consent as it is to give it.

4. When assessing whether the consent has been freely given, it will be taken into account in the
greatest extent possible whether, among other things, the performance of a contract,
including the provision of a service, is subject to consent to the processing of
personal data that is not necessary for the execution of said contract”.

It takes into account what is expressed in recital 32 of the RGPD in relation to what
established in articles 6 and 7 mentioned above:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

“(32) Consent must be given by a clear affirmative act that reflects a
free, specific, informed, and unequivocal manifestation of the interested party's
accept the treatment of personal data that concerns you… Therefore, the
silence, pre-ticked boxes, or inaction should not constitute consent. The
Consent must be given for all processing activities carried out with the
same or the same ends. When the treatment has several purposes, the
consent for all of them…”

It is also necessary to take into account the provisions of article 6 of the LOPDGDD
on the treatment based on the consent of the affected party:

"1. In accordance with the provisions of article 4.11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
consent of the affected party is understood as any manifestation of free will,
specific, informed and unequivocal by which it accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern.

2. When it is intended to base the processing of the data on the consent of the
affected for a plurality of purposes, it will be necessary to state
specific and unequivocal that said consent is granted for all of them.

3. The execution of the contract may not be subject to the affected party consenting to the
processing of personal data for purposes unrelated to the
maintenance, development or control of the contractual relationship”.

In accordance with what has been expressed, data processing requires the existence of a
legal basis that legitimizes it, such as the consent of the interested party
validly. In the present case, the respondent entity limits the options of the
interested party to the marking of a box by means of which he leaves a record of his
Opposition to the aforementioned data processing. The data collection form and
provision of consent reads as follows:

“NAME AND SURNAME____ Check the following boxes if you do not want El Real
Sporting de Gijón S.A.D carry out the indicated treatments:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

_ I do not want my data to be processed for sending newsletters and information about
club activities and services.

_ I do not want my data to be processed for the organization of raffles, contests and other
promotional events.

_ I do not want my data to be processed to carry out satisfaction surveys
clients or potential clients.

_ I do not want my data to be processed for the personalization of commercial offers and
promotional.

_ I do not want my data to be processed for sending commercial offers and
promotional”.

With this mechanism, there is no option for the client to give their consent to
the treatments in question, but that the consent is intended to obtain
through the inaction of the interested party, ("do not check the boxes in which it is indicated" DO NOT
I want…”), contrary to what is established in the RGPD. In this case, it is not a
affirmative action, but of a pure inaction that does not ensure that the interested party grants
consent unequivocally (it is considered that when you mark something it is because
you want it, not because you don't want it); since you may not have understood the double
denial; or you may not have paid due attention when reading the directions on
question. It is, in short, a consent that is intended to be deduced from the
inaction and, therefore, contrary to the RGPD, the requirement according to which “the
Consent must be given by a clear affirmative act that reflects a
free, specific, informed, and unequivocal manifestation of the interested party's
accept the treatment of personal data that concerns you”,
understanding that "inaction should not constitute consent" (Considering 32
of the GDPR).

III

Thus, the known facts could constitute an infraction,
attributable to the claimed, for violation of article 7 of the aforementioned RGPD, to the
carry out the collection of consent through a non-affirmative action, a
inaction that does not ensure that the interested party unequivocally grants consent.

For its part, article 72.1.c) of the LOPDGDD considers it very serious, for the purposes of
prescription, "Breach of the requirements of article 7 of the RGPD"

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5.b) of the RGPD.

In accordance with the precepts indicated, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction to be imposed in
the present case, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance
with the following aggravating criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

-

-

The category of personal data affected by the breach. The
data processed in this case, are of a markedly personal nature and therefore
person identifiers, (section g).

The way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement. The
way in which this AEPD has been aware has been through communication
of the infraction by the Ministry of Finance, (section h).

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD, with
Regarding the infraction committed by violating the provisions of article 13, it allows
set a penalty of 5,000 euros, (five thousand euros).

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

START: SANCTIONING PROCEDURE against the entity, Club Deportivo REAL
SPORTING DE GIJÓN, S.A.D. with CIF.: A33608233, for the violation of article 7 of the
RGPD, punishable in accordance with the provisions of art. 83 of the aforementioned standard.

APPOINT: Mr. R.R.R. as Instructor, and Secretary, if applicable, Ms. S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime
of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

INCORPORATE: to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the claim
filed by the claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and
generated by the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection during the
investigations, all of them part of this administrative file.

WHAT: for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the sanction that
could correspond would be a fine of 5,000 euros, (five thousand euros), without
prejudice to what results from the instruction.

NOTIFY: this agreement to initiate sanctioning proceedings to the entity,
Club Deportivo REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN, S.A.D., granting it a term of
hearing of ten business days to formulate the allegations and present the
tests you deem appropriate.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
this procedure, equivalent in this case to 1,000 euros. with the app
of this reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,000 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same, equivalent in this case
to 1,000 euros. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be established in
4,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 3,000 euros (three thousand euros).

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

If you choose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts indicated
above, you must make it effective by depositing it in account number ES00
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data in Banco CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the number of
reference of the procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the
cause of reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

>>

 : On July 3, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 3000 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.
THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. A sanctioning procedure has been initiated, if the offender acknowledges his
responsibility, the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the sanction
to proceed.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or fits
impose a pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature but it has been justified
the inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature,
the competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at
least 20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative
each. The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

initiation of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or
Waiver of any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased

regulations.

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00134/2020, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to REAL SPORTING DE GIJÓN,
S.A.D.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.
Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

